Item 1A. Risk Factors Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere and the other information contained in this Report and in our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on Broadcom, our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our Class A common stock will likely decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our operating results may be adversely impacted by worldwide political and economic uncertainties and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the cyclical nature of and volatility in the semiconductor industry. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock may decline. We operate primarily in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. From time to time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns, such as the current downturn. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories, and accelerated erosion of prices. These factors could cause substantial fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations. In addition, during these downturns some competitors may become more aggressive in their pricing practices, which would adversely impact our gross margin. Any downturns in the semiconductor industry may be severe and prolonged, and any failure of the industry or wired and wireless communications markets to fully recover from downturns could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products. Accordingly, our operating results may vary 18 Table of Contents significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor industry, which could cause large fluctuations in our stock price. Recently general worldwide economic conditions have experienced a deterioration due to credit conditions resulting from the recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and other factors, slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, volatility in energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns in the wired and wireless communications markets, the ongoing effects of the war in Iraq, recent international conflicts and terrorist and military activity, and the impact of natural disasters and public health emergencies. As a result, in the fourth quarter of 2008 we experienced cancellations, deferrals and a significant slowdown in orders and anticipate that trend will continue in the indeterminate future, as the current recession is projected to last at least throughout much of 2009. These conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to further slow spending on our products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. Furthermore, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding would be negatively impacted. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, worldwide, or in the semiconductor industry or the wired and wireless communications markets. If the economy or markets in which we operate do not continue at their present levels or continue to deteriorate, we may record additional charges related to restructuring costs and the impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, the combination of our lengthy sales cycle coupled with challenging macroeconomic conditions could have a synergistic negative impact on the results of our operations. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. As a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly net revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, who may derive their expectations by extrapolating data from recent historical operating results, the market price of our Class A common stock will likely decline. Fluctuations in our operating results may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and those identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment: • general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, current general economic volatility, and trends in the broadband communications markets in various geographic regions, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated; • the timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability, as well as the ability of our customers, to manage inventory; • our ability to adjust our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products and services or demand for new products requested by our customers; • the effectiveness of our expense and product cost control and reduction efforts; • the gain or loss of a key customer, design win or order; • our dependence on a few significant customers and/or design wins for a substantial portion of our revenue; • our ability to specify, develop or acquire, complete, introduce, market and transition to volume production new products and technologies in a cost-effective and timely manner; • intellectual property disputes, customer indemnification claims and other types of litigation risks; • the availability and pricing of raw materials and third party semiconductor foundry, assembly and test capacity; 19 Table of Contents • our ability to retain, recruit and hire key executives, technical personnel and other employees in the positions and numbers, with the experience and capabilities, and at the compensation levels that we need to implement our business and product plans; • our ability to timely and accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards and to identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets; • the rate at which our present and future customers and end users adopt our technologies and products in our target markets; • changes in our product or customer mix; • competitive pressures and other factors such as the qualification, availability and pricing of competing products and technologies and the resulting effects on sales and pricing of our products; • our ability to timely and effectively transition to smaller geometry process technologies or achieve higher levels of design integration; • the volume of our product sales and pricing concessions on volume sales; • the impact of the Internal Revenue Service review of certain of our income tax returns; and • the effects of public health emergencies, natural disasters, terrorist activities, international conflicts and other events beyond our control. We expect new product lines to account for a high percentage of our future sales. Some of these markets are immature and/or unpredictable or are new markets for Broadcom, and we cannot assure you that these markets will develop into significant opportunities or that we will continue to derive significant revenue from these markets. Based on the limited amount of historical data available to us, it is difficult to anticipate our future revenue streams from, or the sustainability of, such newer markets. Typically our new products have lower gross margins until we commence volume production and launch lower cost revisions of such products, enabling us to benefit from economies of scale and more efficient designs. However, certain of our new products, such as products for the cellular phone market, will likely have lower gross margins than our customary products for some time after we commence volume production of those products, which will be dependent upon our product mix. Additionally, as an increasing number of our chips are being incorporated into consumer products, such as desktop and notebook computers, cellular phones and other mobile communication devices, other wireless-enabled consumer electronics, and satellite and digital cable set-top boxes, we anticipate greater seasonality and fluctuations in the demand for our products, which may result in greater variations in our quarterly operating results. Consumer products can also have lower gross margins than the gross margins we have been able to achieve in the past, depending upon where they are in their respective product life cycles, which could negatively impact our revenue and gross margin. In the past we have entered into arrangements that include multiple deliverables, such as the sale of semiconductor products and related data services. Under these arrangements, the services may be provided without having a separate “fair value” under Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, Issue No. 00-21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables, or EITF 00-21. In that event, we will only recognize a portion of the total revenue we receive from the customer during a quarter, and will recognize the remaining revenue ratably over the respective service period or estimated product life. There are also other scenarios under EITF 00-21 and other accounting literature whereby revenue may be deferred for even longer periods or ratable recognition over the service period may not be permitted and all of the revenue may be required to be recognized in later periods or at the end of the arrangement. As we enter into future multiple element arrangements in which the fair value of each deliverable is not known, the portion of revenue we recognize on a deferred basis may vary significantly in any given quarter, which could cause even greater fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. 20 Table of Contents We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties, and our ability to accurately forecast customer demand may be impaired by our lengthy sales cycle. If we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margin. Conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potentially in loss of market share and damaged customer relationships. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Customers can generally cancel, change or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. In the recent past, some of our customers have developed excess inventories of their own products and have, as a consequence, deferred purchase orders for our products. It is difficult to accurately predict what or how many products our customers will need in the future. Anticipating demand is challenging because our customers face volatile pricing and unpredictable demand for their own products, are increasingly focused on cash preservation and tighter inventory management, and may be involved in legal proceedings that could affect their ability to buy our products. Our ability to accurately forecast customer demand may also be impaired by the delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle. After we have developed and delivered a product to a customer, the customer will usually test and evaluate our product prior to designing its own equipment that will incorporate our product. Our customers may need three to more than nine months to test, evaluate and adopt our product and an additional three to more than twelve months to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates our products. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience significant delays from the time we increase our operating expenses and make investments in inventory until the time that we generate revenue from these products. It is possible that we may never generate any revenue from these products after incurring such expenditures. Even if a customer selects our product to incorporate into its equipment, we have no assurance that the customer will ultimately bring its product to market or that such effort by our customer will be successful. The delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle increase the risk that a customer will decide to cancel or curtail, reduce or delay its product plans. As a result of the recent significant economic downturn, which caused a decline in the cellular market, as well as tempered expectations of the future growth rate for that market, and an increase in our implied discount rate due to higher risk premiums, as well as the decline in our market capitalization, we had to adjust our assumptions used to assess the estimated fair value of our mobile platforms business group and recorded impairment charges of $169.4 million in the three months ended December 31, 2008 relating to this group. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. If we incur significant research and development expenses, marketing expenses and investments in inventory in the future that we are not able to recover, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, as an increasing number of our chips are being incorporated into consumer products, we anticipate greater fluctuations in demand for our products, which makes it even more difficult to forecast customer demand. We place orders with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. If we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect to, if at all. As a result, we could hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we could forego revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, any future significant cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products could materially and adversely affect our profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. Furthermore, we generally recognize revenue upon shipment of products to a customer. If a customer refuses to accept shipped products or does not timely pay for these products, which has occurred in the past, our revenue and financial results could be materially and adversely impacted. We maintain inventory, or hubbing, arrangements with certain of our customers. Our use of these arrangements increased in 2008 and we expect that we will continue to use these arrangements for the foreseeable future. Pursuant to these arrangements, we deliver products to a customer or a designated third party warehouse based upon the customer’s projected needs, but do not recognize product revenue unless and until the customer reports that it has removed our product from the warehouse to incorporate into its end products. Historically we 21 Table of Contents have had good visibility into customer requirements and shipments within a quarter. However, if a customer does not take our products under a hubbing arrangement in accordance with the schedule it originally provided us, our predicted future revenue stream could vary substantially from our forecasts and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, distributors and/or customers with hubbing arrangements provide us periodic reports regarding product, price, quantity, and when products are shipped to their customers, as well as the quantities of our products they still have in stock. For specialized shipping terms we may also rely on data provided by our freight forwarding providers. For our royalty revenue we also rely on data provided by our customers. Any error in the data provided to us by customers, distributors or other third parties could lead to inaccurate reporting of our revenue, gross profit and net income. Additionally, since we own inventory that is physically located in a third party’s warehouse, our ability to effectively manage inventory levels may be impaired, causing our total inventory turns to decrease, which could increase expenses associated with excess and obsolete product and negatively impact our cash flow. If we fail to appropriately adjust our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products and services or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We intend to manage our costs and expenses in the short term to achieve our long-term business objectives. We anticipate that in the long term, we may need to expand as general worldwide economic conditions improve. Through internal growth and acquisitions, we significantly increased the scope of our operations and expanded our workforce from 2,774 full-time, contract and temporary employees as of December 31, 2003 to 7,402 full-time, contract and temporary employees as of December 31, 2008. Nonetheless, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products and services or to the demand for new products requested by our customers. In that event, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. Conversely, if we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and such demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expect, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We expect new product lines, which often require substantial research and development expenses to develop, to account for a high percentage of our future revenue. However, some of the markets for these new products are immature and/or unpredictable or are new markets for Broadcom, and if these markets do not develop at the rates we originally anticipated or if we do not execute successfully, the rate of increase in our operating expenses may exceed the rate of increase, if any, in our revenue. Moreover, we may intentionally choose to increase the rate of our research and development expenses more rapidly than the increase in the rate of our revenue in the short term in anticipation of the long term benefits we would derive from such investment. However, such benefits may never materialize or may not be as significant as we originally believed they would be. For instance, during the last five years we have incurred substantial expenditures on the development of new products for the cellular handset market. Approximately 25% of the $1.498 billion in research and development expense for 2008 was attributable to our mobile platforms business. However, this market is characterized by very long product development and sales cycles due to the significant qualification requirements of cellular handset makers and wireless network operators, and accordingly, it is common to experience significant delays from the time research and development efforts commence to the time corresponding revenues are generated. Due to these lengthy product development and sales cycles, our mobile platforms business had a material negative impact on our earnings in 2008, including impairment charges of $169.4 million recorded in the three months ended December 31, 2008 relating to this business. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2008 most of the revenue that we derived from our mobile platforms business related to the $149.2 million in royalties we received pursuant to a patent license agreement entered into in July 2007. Up to $19.0 million of royalty revenue is currently expected to be recognized under this agreement in quarter ending March 31, 2009. As a result, after March 31, 2009, our mobile platforms business could have a greater dilutive impact on our results of operations. Although we currently expect to begin deriving additional revenue from our cellular handset products later in 2009, it is possible that our customers may delay their product development plans or that their products will not be commercially successful, which would continue to materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Additionally, our operations are characterized by a high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term, such as research and development expenses, the employment and training of a highly skilled workforce, stock-based compensation expense, and legal, accounting and other external fees. If we experience a slowdown in the semiconductor industry or the wired and wireless communications markets in which we operate, such as the current slowdown, we may not be able to adjust our operating expenses in a sufficiently timely or effective manner. Although we announced a restructuring plan in January 2009 and have implemented a number of other cost saving measures, if the current slowdown is more severe or prolonged than we anticipate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our past growth has placed, and any future long-term growth is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To implement our current business and product plans, we will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort. In the past we have implemented an enterprise resource planning system to help us improve our planning and management processes, and more recently we have implemented a new equity administration system to support our more complex equity programs as well as the adoption of SFAS 123R. We anticipate that we will also need to continue to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, including enhanced human resources management systems and a business-to-business solution, as well as additional procedures and other internal management systems. In general, the accuracy of information delivered by these systems may be subject to inherent programming quality. In addition, to support our growth, in March 2007 we relocated our headquarters and Irvine operations to new, larger facilities that have enabled us to centralize all of our Irvine employees and operations on one campus. We may also engage in other relocations of our employees or operations from time to time. Such relocations could result in temporary disruptions of our operations or a diversion of management’s attention and resources. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, we may be unable to adjust our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, or conversely, we may scale our business too quickly and the rate of increase in our expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, either of which would materially and adversely affect our current or future business. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner or to achieve market acceptance of our new products, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to develop new semiconductor products for existing and new markets, introduce these products in a cost-effective and timely manner, and convince leading equipment manufacturers to select these products for design into their own new products. Our products are generally incorporated into our customers’ products at the design stage. We often incur significant expenditures on the development of a new product without any assurance that an equipment manufacturer will select our product for design into its own product. Once an equipment manufacturer designs a competitor’s product into its product offering, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products to that customer because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the customer. Even if an equipment manufacturer designs one of our products into its product offering, we have no assurances that its product will be commercially successful or that we will receive any revenue from sales of that product. Sales of our products largely depend on the commercial success of our customers’ products. Our customers are typically not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to stop using our products if their own products are not commercially successful or for any other reason. In addition, any substantial delay in our customers’ product development plans could have a material negative impact on our business. Our historical results have been, and we expect that our future results will continue to be, dependent on the introduction of a relatively small number of new products and the timely completion and delivery of those products to customers. The development of new silicon devices is highly complex, and from time to time we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products or lower than anticipated manufacturing yields in the early production of such products. If we were to experience any similar delays in the successful completion of a new product or similar reductions in our manufacturing yields for a new product in the future, our customer relationships, reputation and business could be seriously harmed. 23 Table of Contents In addition, the development and introduction of new products often requires substantial research and development resources. As a result, we may choose to discontinue one or more products or product development programs to dedicate more resources to new products. The discontinuation of an existing or planned product may materially and adversely affect our relationship with our customers, including customers who may purchase more than one product from us. Our ability to develop and deliver new products successfully will depend on various factors, including our ability to: • timely and accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards; • accurately define new products; • timely and effectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets; • timely complete and introduce new product designs; • adjust our operations in response to changes in demand for our products and services or the demand for new products requested by our customers; • license any desired third party technology or intellectual property rights; • effectively develop and integrate technologies from companies that we have acquired; • timely qualify and obtain industry interoperability certification of our products and the products of our customers into which our products will be incorporated; • obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials; • achieve high manufacturing yields; and • shift our products to smaller geometry process technologies to achieve lower cost and higher levels of design integration. In some of our businesses, our ability to develop and deliver next generation products successfully and in a timely manner may depend in part on access to information, or licenses of technology or intellectual property rights, from companies that are our competitors. We cannot assure you that such information or licenses will be made available to us on a timely basis, if at all, or at reasonable cost and on commercially reasonable terms. If we are not able to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost effective and timely manner, we will be unable to attract new customers or to retain our existing customers, as these customers may transition to other companies that can meet their product development needs, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our operating results for 2006 and prior periods have been materially and adversely impacted as a result of the voluntary review of our past equity award practices reported in January 2007. Our outstanding civil litigation relating to these matters could continue to result in significant costs to us. In addition, any other related action by a governmental agency could result in civil or criminal sanctions against certain of our current and/or former officers, directors and/or employees. In connection with the voluntary review of our past equity award practices, we restated our financial statements for each of the years ended December 31, 1998 through December 31, 2005, and for the three months ended March 31, 2006. Accordingly, you should not rely on financial information included in the reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K previously filed by Broadcom, the related opinions of our independent registered public accounting firm, or earnings press releases and similar communications issued by us, for periods ended on or before March 31, 2006, all of which have been superseded in their entirety by the information contained in our amended Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2005 and our amended Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A for the three months ended March 31, 2006, each filed January 23, 2007. In June 2006 we received an informal request for information from the staff of the Los Angeles regional office of the SEC regarding our historical option granting practices. In December 2006 we were informed that the SEC had issued a formal order of investigation in the matter. In April 2008 the SEC brought a complaint against Broadcom alleging violations of the federal securities laws, and we entered into a settlement with the SEC. Without admitting or denying the SEC’s allegations, we agreed to pay a civil penalty of $12.0 million, which we recorded as a settlement cost in 2008, and stipulated to an injunction against future violations of certain provisions of the 24 Table of Contents federal securities laws. The settlement was approved by the United States District Court for the Central District of California in late April 2008, thus concluding the SEC’s investigation of this matter with respect to Broadcom. As discussed in detail in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Report, in May 2008 the SEC filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Central District of California against Dr. Henry Samueli, our then Chairman of the Board and Chief Technical Officer, Mr. David A. Dull, our then Senior Vice President, Business Affairs and General Counsel, and two other former executive officers of Broadcom. The SEC’s civil complaint alleges that Dr. Samueli and Mr. Dull, along with the other defendants, violated the anti-fraud provisions of the federal securities laws, falsified books and records, and caused the company to report false financial results. We do not know when the SEC action will be resolved with respect to Dr. Samueli and/or Mr. Dull or what actions, if any, the SEC may require either to take in resolution of the matter against him personally. In August 2006 we were informally contacted by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Central District of California and asked to produce documents. In 2007 and 2008 we continued to provide substantial amounts of documents and information to the U.S. Attorney’s Office on a voluntary basis and pursuant to grand jury subpoenas. We are continuing to cooperate with the U.S. Attorney’s Office in 2009. As widely reported, in June 2008 Dr. Henry T. Nicholas, III, our former President and Chief Executive Officer and a former director, and William J. Ruehle, our former Chief Financial Officer, were named in an indictment relating to alleged stock options backdating at the company. Also in June 2008 Dr. Samueli pled guilty to making a materially false statement in connection with the SEC’s investigation described above. In September 2008 the United States District Court for the Central District of California rejected Dr. Samueli’s plea agreement. Dr. Samueli has appealed the ruling in the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Any further action by the SEC, the U.S. Attorney’s Office or other governmental agency could result in additional civil or criminal sanctions and/or fines against us and/or certain of our current or former officers, directors and/or employees. Additionally, as discussed in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we currently are engaged in civil litigation with parties that claim, among other allegations, that certain of our current and former directors and officers improperly dated stock option grants to enhance their own profits on the exercise of such options or for other improper purposes. Although we and the other defendants intend to defend these claims vigorously, there are many uncertainties associated with any litigation, and we cannot assure you that these actions will be resolved without substantial costs and/or settlement charges that may exceed any reimbursement we may be entitled to under our directors’ and officers’ insurance policies. In addition, we rely on independent registered public accounting firms for opinions and consents to maintain current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and to have effective registration statements under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, on file with the SEC, including our outstanding registration statements on Forms S-1, S-4 and S-8. The pending arbitration proceedings involving Ernst & Young LLP, or E&Y, our former independent registered public accounting firm, could adversely impact our ability to obtain any necessary consents in the future from E&Y. In that event, we may be required to have our new independent registered public accounting firm reaudit the affected periods and during such reaudit may not be able to timely file required Exchange Act reports with the SEC or to issue equity, including common stock pursuant to equity awards that comprise a significant portion of our compensation packages, under our outstanding or any new registration statements. Furthermore, as a result of the reaudit, it is possible that additional accounting issues may be identified. The resolution of the pending investigation by the U.S. Attorney’s Office, the defense of our pending civil litigation, and the defense of any additional litigation that may arise relating to our past equity award practices or the January 2007 restatement of our prior financial statements has in the past and could continue to result in significant costs and diversion of the attention of management and other key employees. We have indemnification agreements with each of our present and former directors and officers, under which Broadcom is generally required to indemnify them against expenses, including attorneys’ fees, judgments, fines and settlements, arising from the pending litigation and related government actions described above (subject to certain exceptions, including liabilities arising from willful misconduct, from conduct knowingly contrary to the best interests of Broadcom, or conduct that is knowingly fraudulent or deliberately dishonest or results in improper personal benefit). The 25 Table of Contents potential amount of the future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification obligations could be significant and could have a material impact on our results of operations, particularly as the defendants in the criminal and civil actions described above prepare to go to trial. Although we maintain various insurance policies related to the risks associated with our business, including directors’ and officers’ insurance, we cannot assure you that the amount of our insurance coverage will be sufficient, that our insurance policies will provide coverage for the matters and circumstances described above or that portions of payments by our insurance companies previously made to us will not be required to be repaid to the insurance companies as these matters reach conclusion. Certain of our insurance carriers have reserved their rights under these policies, and in the third quarter of 2008 one of our insurance carriers notified us that coverage was not available and that it intended to suspend payment to us. As a result, we ceased receiving reimbursements under these policies for our expenses related to the matters described above. However, in January 2009 we entered into an agreement with that insurance carrier and certain of our other insurance carriers pursuant to which, without prejudicing our rights or the rights of such insurers, we will receive a payment from these insurers under these insurance policies. Nonetheless, if our coverage under these policies is reduced or eliminated, our potential financial exposure in the pending securities litigation and related government actions would be increased. Our business, financial position and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected to the extent that our insurance coverage fails to pay or reimburse expenses and any judgments, fines or settlement costs that we may incur in connection with these matters or in the event we are required to repay amounts that were previously paid by our insurance companies. Our acquisition strategy may result in unanticipated accounting charges or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations, and result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses, or be dilutive to existing shareholders. A key element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. Between January 1, 1999 and December 31, 2008, we acquired 38 companies and certain assets of four other businesses. We continually evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combination transactions, strategic partnerships, and the purchase or sale of assets, including tangible and intangible assets such as intellectual property. Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions, typically entail many risks, and could result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses. We have in the past and may in the future experience delays in the timing and successful integration of an acquired company’s technologies and product development through volume production, unanticipated costs and expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, or contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. Moreover, to the extent we acquire a company with existing products, those products may have lower gross margins than our customary products, which could adversely affect our gross margin and operating results. If an acquired company also has inventory that we assume, we will be required to write up the carrying value of that inventory to fair value. When that inventory is sold, the gross margin for those products will be nominal and our gross margin for that period will be negatively affected. The acquisition of another company or its products and technologies may also require us to enter into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases. Furthermore, these challenges would be even greater if we acquired a business or entered into a business combination transaction with a company that was larger and more difficult to integrate than the companies we have historically acquired. Acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional stock-based compensation expense, and the recording and later amortization of amounts related to certain purchased intangible assets, any of which items could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, we may record goodwill in connection with an acquisition and incur goodwill impairment 26 Table of Contents charges in the future. Any of these charges could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline. Beginning January 1, 2009, the accounting for future business combinations changed. We expect that the new requirements will have an impact on our consolidated financial statements, but the nature and magnitude of the specific effects will depend upon the nature, terms and size of the acquisitions we consummate after the effective date. Acquisitions or asset purchases made entirely or partially for cash may reduce our cash reserves. We may seek to obtain additional cash to fund an acquisition by selling equity or debt securities. Any issuance of equity or convertible debt securities may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we may issue could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our Class A and/or Class B common stock. For example, as a consequence of the prior pooling-of-interests accounting rules, the securities issued in nine of our acquisitions were shares of Class B common stock, which have voting rights superior to those of our publicly traded Class A common stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any pending or future acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from these acquisitions. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition opportunities that are available at attractive valuations, if at all. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms, and any decline in the price of our Class A common stock may make it significantly more difficult and expensive to initiate or consummate additional acquisitions. We may not be able to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, which could harm our competitive position. Our success and future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We primarily rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and processes, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies and processes. We currently hold over 3,100 U.S. and 1,400 foreign patents and have more than 7,600 additional U.S. and foreign pending patent applications. However, we cannot assure you that any additional patents will be issued. Even if a new patent is issued, the claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with meaningful protection. We may not be able to obtain foreign patents or file pending applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and patent applications. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. Some or all of our patents have in the past been licensed and likely will in the future be licensed to certain of our competitors through cross-license agreements. Moreover, because we have participated and continue to participate in developing various industry standards, we may be required to license some of our patents to others, including competitors, who develop products based on those standards. Certain of our software (as well as that of our customers) may be derived from so-called “open source” software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Such open source software is often made available under licenses, such as the GNU General Public License, or GPL, which impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, and/or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of license customarily used to protect our intellectual property. In addition, there is little or no legal precedent for interpreting the terms of certain of these open source licenses, including the determination of which works are subject to the terms of such licenses. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software, in the event that the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work. With respect to our proprietary software, we generally license such software under terms that prohibit combining it with open source software as described 27 Table of Contents above. Despite these restrictions, parties may combine Broadcom proprietary software with open source software without our authorization, in which case we might nonetheless be required to release the source code of our proprietary software. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products, services or technology without our authorization. Also, current or former employees may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors, and we cannot assure you that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. Additionally, current, departing or former employees or third parties could attempt to penetrate our computer systems and networks to misappropriate our proprietary information and technology or interrupt our business. Because the techniques used by computer hackers and others to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate, counter or ameliorate these techniques. As a result, our technologies and processes may be misappropriated, particularly in countries where laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. In addition, some of our customers have entered into agreements with us that grant them the right to use our proprietary technology if we fail to fulfill our obligations, including product supply obligations, under those agreements, and if we do not correct the failure within a specified time period. Also, some customers may require that we make certain intellectual property available to our competitors so that the customer has a choice among semiconductor vendors for solutions to be incorporated into the customer’s products. Moreover, we often incorporate the intellectual property of strategic customers into our own designs, and have certain obligations not to use or disclose their intellectual property without their authorization. We cannot assure you that our efforts to prevent the misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers will succeed. We have in the past been and currently are engaged in litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, including our customers. It is possible that the advent of or developments in such litigation may adversely affect our relationships and agreements with certain customers that are either involved in such litigation or also have business relationships with the party with whom we are engaged in litigation. Such litigation (and the settlement thereof) has been and will likely continue to be very expensive and time consuming. Additionally, any litigation can divert the attention of management and other key employees from the operation of the business, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Intellectual property risks and third party claims of infringement, misappropriation of proprietary rights or other claims against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products, require us to redesign our products or seek licenses from third parties, and seriously harm our operating results. In addition, the defense of such claims could result in significant costs and divert the attention of our management or other key employees. Companies in and related to the semiconductor industry and the wired and wireless communications markets often aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. There are various intellectual property risks associated with developing and producing new products and entering new markets, and we may not be able to obtain, at reasonable cost and upon commercially reasonable terms, licenses to intellectual property of others that is alleged to read on such new or existing products. From time to time, we have received, and may continue to receive, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties’ proprietary rights. Moreover, in the past we have been and we currently are engaged in litigation with parties that claim that we infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets. In addition, we or our customers may be sued by other parties that claim that our products have infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets, or which may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents. An adverse determination in any of these types of disputes could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products, limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for Broadcom, increase our costs of revenue, and expose us to significant liability. Any of these claims or litigation may materially and adversely affect our 28 Table of Contents business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in a patent or trade secret action, a court could issue a preliminary or permanent injunction that would require us to withdraw or recall certain products from the market, redesign certain products offered for sale or under development, or restrict employees from performing work in their areas of expertise. We may also be liable for damages for past infringement and royalties for future use of the technology, and we may be liable for treble damages if infringement is found to have been willful. In addition, governmental agencies may commence investigations or criminal proceedings against our employees, former employees and/or the company relating to claims of misappropriation or misuse of another party’s proprietary rights. We may also have to indemnify some customers and strategic partners under our agreements with such parties if a third party alleges or if a court finds that our products or activities have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused another party’s proprietary rights. We have received requests from certain customers and strategic partners to include increasingly broad indemnification provisions in our agreements with them. These indemnification provisions may, in some circumstances, extend our liability beyond the products we provide to include liability for combinations of components or system level designs and for consequential damages and/or lost profits. Even if claims or litigation against us are not valid or successfully asserted, these claims could result in significant costs and diversion of the attention of management and other key employees to defend. Additionally, we have sought and may in the future seek to obtain licenses under other parties’ intellectual property rights and have granted and may in the future grant licenses to certain of our intellectual property rights to others in connection with cross-license agreements or settlements of claims or actions asserted against us. However, we may not be able to obtain licenses under another’s intellectual property rights on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our products may contain technology provided to us by other parties such as contractors, suppliers or customers. We may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether such technology infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. Our contractors, suppliers and licensors may not be required to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages. In addition, we may have little or no ability to correct errors in the technology provided by such contractors, suppliers and licensors, or to continue to develop new generations of such technology. Accordingly, we may be dependent on their ability and willingness to do so. In the event of a problem with such technology, or in the event that our rights to use such technology become impaired, we may be unable to ship our products containing such technology, and may be unable to replace the technology with a suitable alternative within the time frame needed by our customers. Because we depend on a few significant customers and/or design wins for a substantial portion of our revenue, the loss of a key customer or design win or any significant delay in our customers’ product development plans could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business. In addition, if we are unable to continue to sell existing and new products to our key customers in significant quantities or to attract new significant customers, our future operating results could be adversely affected. We have derived a substantial portion of our past revenue from sales to a relatively small number of customers. As a result, the loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Sales to our five largest customers represented 35.8%, 39.7% and 46.5% of our net revenue in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in 2009 and for the foreseeable future. The identities of our largest customers and their respective contributions to our net revenue have varied and will likely continue to vary from period to period. A significant portion of our revenue may also depend on a single product design win with a large customer. As a result, the loss of any such key design win or any significant delay in the ramp of volume production of the customer’s products into which our product is designed could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For instance, as a result of the recent significant economic downturn, which caused a decline in the cellular market, as well as tempered expectations of the future growth rate for that market, and an increase in our implied discount rate due to higher risk premiums, as well as the decline in our market capitalization, we had to adjust our assumptions used to assess the estimated fair value of our mobile platforms 29 Table of Contents business. In addition, these key design wins are often with large customers who have significantly greater financial, sales, marketing and other resources than we have and greater bargaining and pricing power, which could materially and adversely affect our operating margins. We may not be able to maintain or increase sales to certain of our key customers or continue to secure key design wins for a variety of reasons, including the following: • most of our customers can stop incorporating our products into their own products with limited notice to us and suffer little or no penalty; • our agreements with our customers typically do not require them to purchase a minimum quantity of our products; • many of our customers have pre-existing or concurrent relationships with our current or potential competitors that may affect the customers’ decisions to purchase our products; • our customers face intense competition from other manufacturers that do not use our products; • some of our customers may choose to consolidate their supply sources to our detriment; and • some of our customers offer or may offer products that compete with our products. These relationships often require us to develop new products that may involve significant technological challenges. Our customers frequently place considerable pressure on us to meet their tight development schedules. Accordingly, we may have to devote a substantial portion of our resources to strategic relationships, which could detract from or delay our completion of other important development projects or the development of next generation products and technologies. Delays in development could impair our relationships with strategic customers and negatively impact sales of the products under development. In addition, our longstanding relationships with some larger customers may also deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain customers favorable prices on our products. We may have to offer the same lower prices to certain of our customers who have contractual “most favored nation” pricing arrangements. In that event, our average selling prices and gross margins would decline. The loss of a key customer or design win, a reduction in sales to any key customer, a significant delay in our customers’ product development plans or our inability to attract new significant customers or secure new key design wins could seriously impact our revenue and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We may be unable to attract, retain or motivate key senior management and technical personnel, which could seriously harm our business. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our key senior management personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, Scott A. McGregor, other senior executives, and our Senior Technical Advisor, Dr. Samueli. We have employment agreements with Mr. McGregor and certain other executive officers; however the agreements do not govern the length of their service with Broadcom. We do not have employment agreements with most of our elected officers, or any other key employees, although we do have limited change in control severance benefit arrangements in place with certain executives. The loss of the services of Mr. McGregor or certain other key senior management or technical personnel could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For instance, if certain of these individuals were to leave our company unexpectedly, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity during the search for and while any such successor is integrated into our business and operations. Furthermore, our future success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate senior management and qualified technical personnel, particularly software engineers, digital circuit designers, RF and mixed-signal circuit designers and systems applications engineers. Competition for these employees is intense. If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate such personnel in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis, we will experience difficulty in implementing our current business and product plans. In that event, we may be unable to successfully meet competitive challenges or to exploit potential market opportunities, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Equity awards generally comprise a significant portion of our compensation packages for all employees. During the time that our periodic filings with the SEC were not current, as a result of the voluntary review of our equity award practices, we were not able to issue shares of our common stock pursuant to equity awards. We cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to attract, retain and motivate employees if we are unable to issue shares of our common stock pursuant to equity awards for a sustained period or in the event of substantial and/or prolonged declines in the price of our Class A common stock. We have recently effected a number of cost saving measures and have announced a restructuring plan in January 2009, both of which could negatively impact employee morale. Over the last few years we have also modified our compensation policies by increasing cash compensation to certain employees and instituting awards of restricted stock units, while simultaneously reducing awards of stock options. This modification of our compensation policies and the applicability of the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-based Payment, or SFAS 123R requirement to expense the fair value of equity awards to employees have increased our operating expenses. However, because we are mindful of the dilutive impact of our equity awards, we intend to further reduce the number of equity awards granted to employees over the next few years. While this may have a positive impact on our operating expenses over time, it may negatively impact employee morale and our ability to attract, retain and motivate employees. Our inability to attract and retain additional key employees and any increase in stock-based compensation expense could each have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on five independent foundry subcontractors to manufacture substantially all of our current products, and any failure to secure and maintain sufficient foundry capacity could materially and adversely affect our business. We do not own or operate a fabrication facility. Five third-party foundry subcontractors located in Asia manufacture substantially all of our semiconductor devices in current production. Availability of foundry capacity has at times in the past been reduced due to strong demand. If we are unable to secure sufficient capacity at our existing foundries, or in the event of a public health emergency or closure at any of these foundries, our revenues, cost of revenues and results of operations would be negatively impacted. In September 1999 two of our third-party foundries’ principal facilities were affected by a significant earthquake in Taiwan. As a consequence of this earthquake, they suffered power outages and equipment damage that impaired their wafer deliveries, which, together with strong demand, resulted in wafer shortages and higher wafer pricing industrywide. If any of our foundries experiences a shortage in capacity, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages, suffers an adverse outcome in pending or future litigation, or encounters financial difficulties or any other disruption of foundry capacity, we may encounter supply delays or disruptions, and we may need to qualify an alternative foundry. Our current foundries need to have new manufacturing processes qualified if there is a disruption in an existing process. We typically require several months to qualify a new foundry or process before we can begin shipping products from it. If we cannot accomplish this qualification in a timely manner, we may experience a significant interruption in supply of the affected products. Because we rely on outside foundries, we face several significant risks in addition to those discussed above, including: • a lack of guaranteed wafer supply and higher wafer prices, particularly in light of the recent volatility in the commodities markets, which has the impact of increasing the cost of metals used in production of wafers; • limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs and other terms; and • the unavailability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies. The manufacture of integrated circuits is a highly complex and technologically demanding process. Although we work closely with our foundries to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields, our foundries have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. This often occurs during the production of new products or the installation and start-up of new process technologies. Poor yields from our foundries could result in product shortages or delays in product shipments, which could seriously harm our relationships with our customers and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 31 Table of Contents The ability of each foundry to provide us with semiconductor devices is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations. Although we have entered into contractual commitments to supply specified levels of products to some of our customers, we do not have a long-term volume purchase agreement or a significant guaranteed level of production capacity with any of our foundries. Foundry capacity may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. Availability of foundry capacity has in the past been reduced from time to time due to strong demand. Foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and better financed than we are, or that have long-term agreements with our main foundries, may induce our foundries to reallocate capacity to them. This reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of components that we need. Although we use five independent foundries to manufacture substantially all of our semiconductor products, each component is typically manufactured at only one or two foundries at any given time, and if any of our foundries is unable to provide us with components as needed and under acceptable terms, we could experience significant delays in securing sufficient supplies of those components. Also, our third party foundries typically migrate capacity to newer, state-of-the-art manufacturing processes on a regular basis, which may create capacity shortages for our products designed to be manufactured on an older process. We cannot assure you that any of our existing or new foundries will be able to produce integrated circuits with acceptable manufacturing yields, or that our foundries will be able to deliver enough semiconductor devices to us on a timely basis, or on reasonable terms or at reasonable prices. These and other related factors could impair our ability to meet our customers’ needs and have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we may utilize new foundries for other products in the future, in using any new foundries we will be subject to all of the risks described in the foregoing paragraphs with respect to our current foundries. We depend on third-party subcontractors to assemble, obtain packaging materials for, and test substantially all of our current products. If we lose the services of any of our subcontractors or if these subcontractors are unable to obtain sufficient packaging materials, shipments of our products may be disrupted, which could harm our customer relationships and adversely affect our net sales. We do not own or operate an assembly or test facility. Eight third-party subcontractors located in Asia assemble, obtain packaging materials for, and test substantially all of our current products. Because we rely on third-party subcontractors to perform these functions, we cannot directly control our product delivery schedules and quality assurance. This lack of control has resulted, and could in the future result, in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could delay shipments of our products or increase our manufacturing, assembly or testing costs. In the past we and others in our industry experienced a shortage in the supply of packaging substrates that we use for our products. If our third-party subcontractors are unable to obtain sufficient packaging materials for our products in a timely manner, we may experience a significant product shortage or delay in product shipments, which could seriously harm our customer relationships and materially and adversely affect our net sales. Additionally, the recent volatility in the commodities markets could significantly increase our substrate costs. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our assembly or test subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per order basis. If any of these subcontractors experiences financial difficulties in the current global economic environment, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or any other disruption of assembly or testing capacity, or is unable to obtain sufficient packaging materials for our products, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner. Due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our components. Any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our customer relationships and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are continuing to develop relationships with additional third-party subcontractors to assemble and test our products. However, even if we use these new subcontractors, we will continue to be subject to all of the risks described above. 32 Table of Contents The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or expenses and in undetected defects, or bugs, which could damage our reputation with current or prospective customers, result in significant costs and claims, and adversely affect the market acceptance of new products. Highly complex products such as the products that we offer frequently contain hardware or software defects or bugs when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. Our products have previously experienced, and may in the future experience, these defects and bugs. If any of our products contains defects or bugs, or has reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales or shipment of our products to customers. To alleviate these problems, we may have to invest significant capital and other resources. Although our products are tested by us, our subcontractors, suppliers and customers, it is possible that new products will contain defects or bugs. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new product, we may be required to incur additional development costs and product recall, repair or field replacement costs. These problems may divert our technical and other resources from other development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or others, including possible claims for consequential damages and/or lost profits. Moreover, we may lose, or experience a delay in, market acceptance of the affected product or products, and we could lose credibility with our current and prospective customers. In addition, system and handset providers that purchase components may require that we assume liability for defects associated with products produced by their manufacturing subcontractors and require that we provide a warranty for defects or other problems which may arise at the system level. To remain competitive, we must keep pace with rapid technological change and evolving industry standards in the semiconductor industry and the wired and wireless communications markets. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards and our customers’ changing demands. We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometries. Our past sales and profitability have resulted, to a large extent, from our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products incorporating the new standards and technologies. Our ability to adapt to these changes and to anticipate future standards, and the rate of adoption and acceptance of those standards, will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and prospects for growth. If new industry standards emerge, our products or our customers’ products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards. In addition, our target markets continue to undergo rapid growth and consolidation. A significant slowdown in any of these wired and wireless communications markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards make it difficult to formulate a long-term growth strategy because the semiconductor industry and the wired and wireless communications markets may not continue to develop to the extent or in the time periods that we anticipate. We have invested substantial resources in emerging technologies that did not achieve the market acceptance that we had expected. If new markets do not develop as and when we anticipate, or if our products do not gain widespread acceptance in those markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As our international business expands, we are increasingly exposed to various legal, business, political and economic risks associated with our international operations. We currently obtain substantially all of our manufacturing, assembly and testing services from suppliers located outside the United States. In addition, 40.5%, 35.5% and 28.2% of our net revenue in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, was derived from sales to independent customers outside the United States, excluding foreign subsidiaries or manufacturing subcontractors of customers that are headquartered in the United States. We also frequently ship products to our domestic customers’ international manufacturing divisions and subcontractors. Products shipped to international destinations, primarily in Asia, represented 88.7%, 87.4% and 86.5% of our net 33 Table of Contents revenue in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We also undertake design and development activities in Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Greece, India, Israel, Japan, Korea, the Netherlands, Spain, Taiwan and the United Kingdom, among other locations. In addition, we undertake various sales and marketing activities through regional offices in a number of countries. We intend to continue to expand our international business activities and to open other design and operational centers abroad. The continuing effects of the war in Iraq and terrorist attacks in the United States and abroad, the resulting heightened security, and the increasing risk of extended international military conflicts may adversely impact our international sales and could make our international operations more expensive. International operations are subject to many other inherent risks, including but not limited to: • political, social and economic instability; • exposure to different business practices and legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; • natural disasters and public health emergencies; • nationalization of business and blocking of cash flows; • trade and travel restrictions; • the imposition of governmental controls and restrictions and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; • import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and each other country in which we operate; • foreign technical standards; • changes in taxation and tariffs; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities or delayed revenue recognition; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of the factors described above may have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase or maintain our foreign sales. We currently operate under tax holidays and favorable tax incentives in certain foreign jurisdictions. For instance, in Singapore we operate under tax holidays that reduce taxes on substantially all of our operating income. Such tax holidays and incentives often require us to meet specified employment and investment criteria in such jurisdictions. However, we cannot assure you that we will continue to meet such criteria or enjoy such tax holidays and incentives, or realize any net tax benefits from tax holidays or incentives. If any of our tax holidays or incentives are terminated, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Economic conditions in our primary overseas markets, particularly in Asia, may negatively impact the demand for our products abroad. All of our international sales to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets or require us to assume the risk of denominating certain sales in foreign currencies. We anticipate that these factors will impact our business to a greater degree as we further expand our international business activities. In addition, a significant portion of our cash and marketable securities are held in non-U.S. domiciled countries. We face intense competition in the semiconductor industry and the wired and wireless communications markets, which could reduce our market share in existing markets and affect our entry into new markets. The semiconductor industry and the wired and wireless communications markets are intensely competitive. We expect competition to continue to increase as industry standards become well known and as other competitors enter our target markets. We currently compete with a number of major domestic and international suppliers of integrated circuits and related applications in our target markets. We also compete with suppliers of system-level and motherboard-level solutions incorporating integrated circuits that are proprietary or sourced from manufacturers other than Broadcom. In all of our target markets we also may face competition from newly established competitors, suppliers of products based on new or emerging technologies, and customers who choose to develop their own semiconductor solutions. We expect to encounter further consolidation in the markets in which we compete. 34 Table of Contents Many of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories and presence in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Existing or new competitors may also develop technologies that more effectively address our markets with products that offer enhanced features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of integration or lower cost. Increased competition has resulted in and is likely to continue to result in declining average selling prices, reduced gross margins and loss of market share in certain markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully against current or new competitors. If we do not compete successfully, we may lose market share in our existing markets and our revenues may fail to increase or may decline. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. To remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products as well as standard cells and other integrated circuit designs that we may use in multiple products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. Currently most of our products are manufactured in .35 micron, .22 micron, .18 micron, .13 micron, 90 nanometer or 65 nanometer geometry processes. Although the majority of our products are currently manufactured in .13 microns, we are now designing most new products in 65 nanometers and planning for the transition to smaller process geometries. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. The transition to 65 nanometer geometry process technology has resulted in significantly higher mask and prototyping costs, as well as additional expenditures for engineering design tools and related computer hardware. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that the foundries that we use will be able to effectively manage the transition in a timely manner, or at all, or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If any of our foundry subcontractors or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have an adverse impact on our operating results, as a result of increasing costs and expenditures as described above as well as the risk that we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip. 35 Table of Contents We had a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting prior to 2007 and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to and report on Broadcom’s internal control over financial reporting. In assessing the findings of the voluntary equity award review as well as the restatement of our consolidated financial statements for periods ended on or before March 31, 2006, our management concluded that there was a material weakness, as defined in Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Auditing Standard No. 2, in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. Management believes this material weakness was remediated September 19, 2006 and, accordingly, no longer exists as of the date of this filing. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As a result, we cannot assure you that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. Our stock price is highly volatile. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them. The market price of our Class A common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. During 2008 our Class A common stock has traded at prices as low as $12.98 and as high as $29.91 per share. Recently we have experienced a substantial decline in the market price of our Class A common stock. Fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which we cannot control, including: • general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continued volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, current general economic volatility, trends in the broadband communications markets in various geographic regions, including seasonality in sales of consumer products into which our products are incorporated; • quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; • changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by analysts; • rulings in currently pending or newly-instituted intellectual property litigation; 36 Table of Contents • other newly-instituted litigation or governmental investigations or an adverse decision or outcome in any litigation or investigations; • announcements of changes in our senior management; • the gain or loss of one or more significant customers or suppliers; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors, customers or us; • the gain or loss of market share in any of our markets; • changes in accounting rules; • continuing international conflicts and acts of terrorism; • changes in the methods, metrics or measures used by analysts to evaluate our stock; • changes in investor perceptions; or • changes in expectations relating to our products, plans and strategic position or those of our competitors or customers. In addition, the market prices of securities of Internet-related, semiconductor and other technology companies have been and remain volatile. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. In the past, we and other companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been, and we currently are, the subject of securities class action litigation. Due to the nature of our compensation programs, most of our executive officers sell shares of our common stock each quarter or otherwise periodically, often pursuant to trading plans established under Rule 10b5-1 promulgated under the Exchange Act. As a result, sales of shares by our executive officers may not be indicative of their respective opinions of Broadcom’s performance at the time of sale or of our potential future performance. Nonetheless, the market price of our stock may be affected by sales of shares by our executive officers. Our co-founders and their affiliates can control the outcome of matters that require the approval of our shareholders, and accordingly we will not be able to engage in certain transactions without their approval. As of December 31, 2008 our co-founders, directors, executive officers and their respective affiliates beneficially owned 13.6% of our outstanding common stock and held 58.4% of the total voting power held by our shareholders. Accordingly, these shareholders currently have enough voting power to control the outcome of matters that require the approval of our shareholders. These matters include the election of our Board of Directors, the issuance of additional shares of Class B common stock, and the approval of most significant corporate transactions, including certain mergers and consolidations and the sale of substantially all of our assets. In particular, as of December 31, 2008 our two founders, Dr. Henry T. Nicholas III and Dr. Samueli, who are no longer officers or directors of Broadcom, beneficially owned a total of 12.7% of our outstanding common stock and held 58.2% of the total voting power held by our shareholders. Because of their significant voting stock ownership, we will not be able to engage in certain transactions, and our shareholders will not be able to effect certain actions or transactions, without the approval of one or both of these shareholders and their respective spouses. These actions and transactions include changes in the composition of our Board of Directors, certain mergers, and the sale of control of our company by means of a tender offer, open market purchases or other purchases of our Class A common stock, or otherwise. Repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock under our share repurchase program will result in an increase in the total voting power of our co-founders, directors, executive officers and their affiliates, as well as other continuing shareholders. Some of the independent foundries upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our own California and Singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. One of the third-party foundries upon which we rely to manufacture substantially all of our semiconductor devices is located in Taiwan. Taiwan has experienced significant earthquakes in the past and could be subject to additional earthquakes. Any earthquake or other natural disaster, such as a tsunami, in a country in which any of our foundries is located could significantly disrupt our foundries’ production capabilities and could result in our experiencing a significant delay in delivery, or substantial shortage, of wafers and possibly in higher wafer prices. 37 Table of Contents Our California facilities, including our principal executive offices and major design centers, are located near major earthquake fault lines. Our international distribution center and some of our third-party foundries are located in Singapore, which could also be subject to an earthquake, tsunami or other natural disaster. If there is a major earthquake or any other natural disaster in a region where one or more of our facilities are located, our operations could be significantly disrupted. Although we have established business interruption plans to prepare for any such event, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to effectively address all interruptions that such an event could cause. Any supply disruption or business interruption could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in current or future laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws or regulations by federal or state agencies or foreign governments could impede the sale of our products or otherwise harm our business. Changes in current laws or regulations applicable to us or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the United States or elsewhere could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The effects of regulation on our customers or the industries in which they operate may materially and adversely impact our business. For example, the Federal Communications Commission has broad jurisdiction over each of our target markets in the United States. Although current FCC regulations and the laws and regulations of other federal or state agencies are not directly applicable to our products, they do apply to much of the equipment into which our products are incorporated. FCC regulatory policies that affect the ability of cable or satellite operators or telephone companies to offer certain services to their customers or other aspects of their business may impede sales of our products in the United States. For example, in the past we have experienced delays when products incorporating our chips failed to comply with FCC emissions specifications. In addition, we and our customers are subject to various import and export regulations of the United States government. Changes in or violations of such regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, various government export regulations apply to the encryption or other features contained in some of our products. We have made numerous filings and applied for and received a number of export licenses under these regulations. However, if we fail to continue to receive licenses or otherwise comply with these regulations, we may be unable to manufacture the affected products at our foreign foundries or to ship these products to certain customers located outside of the United States. We and our customers may also be subject to regulation by countries other than the United States. Foreign governments may impose tariffs, duties and other import restrictions on components that we obtain from non-domestic suppliers and may impose export restrictions on products that we sell internationally. These tariffs, duties or restrictions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to environmental concerns, the use of lead and other hazardous substances in electronic components and systems is receiving increased attention. In response, the European Union passed the Restriction on Hazardous Substances, or RoHS, Directive, legislation that limits the use of lead and other hazardous substances in electrical equipment. The RoHS Directive became effective July 1, 2006. We believe that our current product designs and material supply chains are in compliance with the RoHS Directive. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could prevent or discourage a third party from acquiring us. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may prevent or discourage a third party from acquiring us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition, we have in the past issued and may in the future issue shares of Class B common stock in connection with certain acquisitions, upon exercise of certain stock options, and for other purposes. Class B shares have superior voting rights entitling the holder to ten votes for each share held on matters that we submit to a shareholder vote (as compared to one vote per share in the case of our Class A common stock) as well as the right to vote separately as a class (i) as required by law and (ii) in the case of a proposed issuance of additional shares of Class B common stock, unless such 38 Table of Contents issuance is approved by at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of Directors then in office. Our Board of Directors also has the authority to fix the rights and preferences of shares of our preferred stock and to issue shares of common or preferred stock without a shareholder vote. It is possible that the provisions in our charter documents, the exercise of supervoting rights by holders of our Class B common stock, our co-founders’, directors’ and officers’ ownership of a majority of the Class B common stock, or the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock or additional shares of Class B common stock may prevent or discourage third parties from acquiring us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition, these factors may discourage third parties from bidding for our Class A common stock at a premium over the market price for our stock. These factors may also materially and adversely affect voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock and the market price of our Class A common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 