ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the factors described below, among others, and other available information before deciding whether to invest in our shares or obligations. Any investment in our shares or obligations involves a high degree of risk. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. As a result of any of the following risks, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our Common Stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Please refer to Item 7 below. Risk Relating to Our Business We have experienced significant losses and expect losses to continue for the foreseeable future. We have yet to establish any history of profitable operations. We have incurred annual operating losses of $3,098,053 and $763,806, respectively, during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $3,861,859. As a result of the Merger, and since AquaMed has a history of net losses and may expect net losses for the foreseeable future, we expect to incur additional operating losses for the foreseeable future. Although sales and order backlogs have significantly grown in the first quarter of 2011, there can be no assurance that AquaMed will be able to sustain these revenues throughout the year or be profitable in the future. We may not be able to continue without additional capital to fund our operations. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. We have a history of operating losses that are likely to continue in the future. If we are unable to become profitable and cannot generate cash flow from our operating activities, we may be required to raise additional capital or debt to fund our operations. Such financing may be unavailable when needed or may not be available on acceptable terms. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our current stockholders will be reduced, and these securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. We may not be able to realize the entire book value of intangibles. We assess intangibles quarterly for impairment. In the event that we determine the carrying value of intangibles is impaired, any such impairment would be charged to earnings in the period of impairment and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 7 AquaMed is dependent on proprietary know-how; AquaMed holds no patents. Competitors of AquaMed may develop or market technologies that are more effective or more commercially attractive than AquaMed’s. AquaMed’s manufacturing know-how as to mixing, coating and cross-linking can be duplicated even if it is difficult to do so. There is no assurance that, should we apply for intellectual property protection for AquaMed’s intellectual property, we would be able to obtain such protection. Despite our efforts to protect proprietary rights, there is no assurance that such protections will preclude competitors of AquaMed from developing and/or marketing similar products. While we are not aware of any third party intellectual property that would materially affect AquaMed’s business, our failure or inability to obtain patents and protect AquaMed’s proprietary information could result in our business being adversely affected. We may not be able to correctly estimate our future operating expenses, which could lead to cash shortfalls. Our operating expenses may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: § the time and resources required to develop, conduct clinical trials and obtain regulatory approvals for our drug candidates and/or HepaMate™; § the costs to attract and retain personnel with the skills required for effective operations; and/or § the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other patent related costs, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation. We are dependent on significant customers. AquaMed is the only segment of our company that currently generates any revenues. Revenues from AquaMed’s services to a limited number of clients have accounted for a substantial percentage of our total revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2010, four major customers accounted for approximately 91% of revenue, with each customer individually accounting for 38%, 22%, 21% and 10%, respectively. Four major customers accounted for approximately 82% of the revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009, with each customer individually accounting for 30%, 22%, 18% and 12%, respectively. The loss of any significant customer of AquaMed would have a significantly negative effect on AquaMed’s operations and, as a result, on our overall operations. We are dependent on outside suppliers for raw materials. The principal manufacturing components we use are purchased from three suppliers. Although we have not experienced significant production delays attributable to supply changes, alternative sources of supply would be difficult to develop in a short period of time. We could experience interruptions, delays, increased costs and/or quality control problems, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, should our current suppliers either be unwilling or unable to supply us with any required raw material, we may not be able to find suitable replacement suppliers on a timely basis, or at all, causing a material adverse effect on our manufacturing capabilities. Risks Related to the Industry We are subject to governmental regulations. Inherent in the development of new medical products is the potential for delay because product testing, including clinical evaluation, is required before most products can be approved for human use. We are subject to regulation by the FDA and the Federal Trade Commission with respect to the manufacturing, marketing, labeling, record keeping, claims and advertising of our products. AquaMed is also subject to state regulation with respect to its electron beam radiation services and facilities. The expansion of our business into the manufacturing and distribution of AquaMed’s products for consumer use will subject us to additional governmental regulation. While hydrogel patches are classified as Class I exempt devices by the FDA, there can be no assurances that the FDA will not seek to regulate this product in the future. Such action by the FDA could have a material adverse effect on AquaMed’s prospects and our overall prospects. 8 If we fail to comply with continuing federal, state and foreign regulations, our business could be seriously harmed. Following initial regulatory approval of any products that we may develop, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after our products become commercially available. This would include results from any post-marketing tests or continued actions required by a condition of approval. The manufacturing facilities we may use to make any of our drug candidates will be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. If a previously unknown problem or problems with a product or a manufacturing and laboratory facility used by us is discovered, the FDA or foreign regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or on the manufacturing facility, including requiring us to withdraw the product from the market. Any changes to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often requires FDA approval before the product, as modified, can be marketed. In addition, we and our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for submission of safety and other post-market information. If we or any of our contract manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: § issue warning letters; § impose civil or criminal penalties; § suspend or withdraw our regulatory approval; § suspend or terminate any of our ongoing clinical trials; § refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; § impose restrictions on our operations; § close the facilities of our contract manufacturers; and/or § seize or detain products or require a product recall. Additionally, regulatory review covers a company’s activities in the promotion of its drugs, with significant potential penalties and restrictions for promotion of drugs for an unapproved use. Sales and marketing programs are under scrutiny for compliance with various mandated requirements, such as illegal promotions to health care professionals. We are also required to submit information on our open and completed clinical trials to public registries and databases. Failure to comply with these requirements could expose us to negative publicity, fines and penalties that could harm our business. If we violate regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, we may be fined, be forced to remove a product from the market or experience other adverse consequences, including delay, which would materially harm our financial results. Additionally, we may not be able to obtain the labeling claims necessary or desirable for product promotion. Once approved, there is no guarantee that the market will accept our products and our products are subject to obsolescence; competition in the medical products field is intense and we represent a very small presence. The field of medical and health products is characterized by rapid and significant changes. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, uncertainty exists as to whether the market will accept our products or if the market for our products is as large as we anticipate. A number of factors may limit the market acceptance of our products, including the timing of regulatory approvals and market entry relative to competitive products, the availability of alternative products, the price of our products relative to alternative products, the availability of third party reimbursement and the extent of marketing efforts by third party distributors or agents that we retain. We cannot assure you that our products will receive market acceptance in a commercially viable period of time, if at all. We cannot be certain that any investment made in developing products will be recovered by us, even if we successfully commercialize our products. We can give no assurance that any existing or future product produced by us will be competitive and will not become obsolete in light of future technological developments. Most of our competitors have far greater financial, research, marketing and distribution resources and more established channels of distribution than we do. In addition, many of our current and potential competitors offer greater variety of products and services and can therefore offer discounts and other incentive programs unavailable to us at this time. Our failure to meet the prices offered by competitors, or to be unable to meet production demands for our products could have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The relative speed with which we can introduce our products and expand our distribution are also a competitive factor. Additionally, many of our customers have the financial ability to establish in-house manufacturing capabilities similar to ours. 9 Our products risk exposure to product liability claims. If successful in developing, testing and commercializing our products, we will be exposed to potential product liability risks, which are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of such products. It is likely we will be contractually obligated, under any license agreements that we enter into, to indemnify the individuals and/or entities to whom we have licensed our technology against claims relating to the manufacture and sale of products sold by licensees. This indemnification liability, as well as direct liability to consumers for any defects in the products sold, could expose us to substantial risks and losses. While we have obtained $3,000,000 of product liability insurance, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Risks Related to the Common Stock Our stock price historically has been volatile and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our Common Stock has been and is expected to continue to be highly volatile. Factors, many of which are beyond our control, include, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, the announcements of technological innovations by us or other companies, regulatory matters, new or existing products or procedures, concerns about our financial position, operating results, litigation, government regulation, developments or disputes relating to agreements, patents or proprietary rights, and general economic, industry and market conditions may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock. In addition, the future sales of shares of our Common Stock by our shareholders, the holders of our outstanding warrants and options, and us could have an adverse dilutive effect on our outstanding shares and the market price of such shares. The trading price of our Common Stock has, from time to time, fluctuated widely and in the future may be subject to similar fluctuations. The trading price may be affected by a number of factors including the risk factors set forth herein, as well as our operating results, financial condition, general economic conditions, market demand for our Common Stock, and various other events or factors both in and out of our control. In recent years, broad stock market indices, in general, and smaller capitalization companies, in particular, have experienced substantial price fluctuations. In a volatile market, we may experience wide fluctuations in the market price of our Common Stock. These fluctuations may have a negative effect on the market price of our Common Stock. To the extent our stock price fluctuates and/or remains low, it could cause you to lose some or all of your investment and impair our ability to raise capital through the offering of additional equity securities. Our Common Stock is a “penny stock” and because penny stock rules will apply, you may find it difficult to sell shares of our Common Stock. Our Common Stock is a “penny stock” as that term is defined under Rule 3a51-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Generally, a “penny stock” is a common stock that is not listed on a securities exchange and trades for less than $5.00 a share. Prices of penny stocks often are not available to buyers and sellers and the market may be very limited. Broker-dealers who sell penny stocks must provide purchasers of these stocks with a standardized risk-disclosure document prepared by the SEC. The document provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks involved in investing in the penny stock market. A broker must also give a purchaser, orally or in writing, bid and offer quotations and information regarding broker and salesperson compensation, make a written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser, and obtain the purchaser’s written agreement to the purchase. Many brokers choose not to participate in penny stock transactions. Because of the penny stock rules, there is less trading activity in penny stocks and you are likely to have difficulty selling your shares. Our Common Stock is quoted on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board and, accordingly, it may be difficult for you to sell your shares or you may not be able to sell your shares for an optimum trading price. Our Common Stock is quoted on the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority’s Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board (the “OTCBB”) under the symbol “ALQA”. The OTCBB is a regulated quotation service that displays real-time quotes, last sale prices and trade volumes in over-the-counter securities. Because trades and quotations on the OTCBB involve a manual process, the market information for such securities cannot be guaranteed. In addition, quote information, or even firm quotes, may not be available. The manual execution process may delay order processing and intervening price fluctuations may result in the failure of a limit order to execute or the execution of a market order at a significantly different price. Execution of trades, execution reporting and the delivery of legal trade confirmations may be delayed significantly. Consequently, one may not be able to sell shares of our Common Stock at the optimum trading prices. 10 When fewer shares of a security are being traded on the OTCBB, volatility of prices may increase and price movement may outpace the ability to deliver accurate quote information. Lower trading volumes in a security may result in a lower likelihood of an individual’s orders being executed, and current prices may differ significantly from the price quoted by the OTCBB at the time of the order entry. Orders for OTCBB securities may not be canceled or edited like orders for other securities. All requests to change or cancel an order must be submitted to, received and processed by the OTCBB. Due to the manual order processing involved in handling OTCBB trades, order processing and reporting may be delayed, and an individual may not be able to cancel or edit his order. Consequently, one may not be able to sell shares of Common Stock at the optimum trading prices. The dealer’s spread (the difference between the bid and ask prices) may be large and may result in substantial losses to the seller of securities on the OTCBB if the Common Stock must be sold immediately. Further, purchasers of securities on the OTCBB may not have an ask price for securities sold through the OTCBB. Due to the foregoing, demand for securities that are traded through the OTCBB may be decreased or eliminated. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to support the development and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Our payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors (the or our "Board") after taking into account various factors, including but not limited to our financial condition, operating results, cash needs, growth plans and the terms of any credit agreements that we may be a party to at the time. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of our Common Stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. Sales practice requirements of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) may also limit a shareholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. In addition to the penny stock rules described above, FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our Common Stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 