Item 1a. Risk Factors: (continued) The Company was liable for associate health claims up to an annual maximum of $750,000 per member prior to March 1, 2012 and is liable for associate health claims up to an annual maximum of $1,250,000 per member as of March 1, 2012. The Company is liable for workers' compensation claims up to $2,000,000 per claim. Property and casualty insurance coverage is maintained with outside carriers at deductible or retention levels ranging from $100,000 to $1,000,000. Although the Company has minimized its exposure on individual claims, the Company, for the benefit of cost savings, has accepted the risk of an unusual amount of independent multiple material claims arising, which could have a significant impact on earnings. Changes in tax laws may result in higher income tax. The Company's future effective tax rate may increase from current rates due to changes in laws and the status of pending items with various taxing authorities. Currently, the Company benefits from a combination of its corporate structure and certain state tax laws. The Company’s investment portfolio may suffer losses from changes in market interest rates and changes in market conditions which could adversely affect results of operations or liquidity. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had $37.4 million in cash and cash equivalents and $89.3 million in marketable securities. The Company’s marketable securities consist of municipal bonds and equity securities. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. Substantially all of these securities are subject to interest rate and credit risk and will decline in value if interest rates increase or one of the issuers’ credit ratings is reduced. As a result, the Company may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity from investments, which may have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. The Company is a controlled Company due to the common stock holdings of the Weis family. The Weis family’s share ownership represents approximately 65% of the combined voting power of the Company’s common stock as of December 31, 2011. As a result, the Weis family has the power to elect a majority of the Company’s directors and approve any action requiring the approval of the shareholders of the Company, including adopting certain amendments to the Company’s charter and approving mergers or sales of substantially all of the Company’s assets. Currently, two of the Company’s seven directors are members of the Weis family. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments: There are no unresolved staff comments. 