D. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below and in the documents we have incorporated by reference into this prospectus before making an investment decision. The risks described below and in the documents we have incorporated by reference into this prospectus are not the only ones facing our company. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our Ordinary Shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Statements included or incorporated by reference in this prospectus that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements may contain works such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” or other wording indicating future results or expectations. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause our results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, those discussed below, elsewhere in this prospectus and in the documents we have incorporated by reference. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise or develop after the date of this prospectus. Risk Relating to Our Business Our business is affected by conditions in the financial services industry. Our customers are highly concentrated in the financial services industry. Our business is therefore susceptible to a downturn in that industry. For example, a decrease in spending for software and related services within this industry could result in a decrease in demand for our products. Financial institutions around the world continue to consolidate which decreases the overall potential market for our products and services. These factors, as well as other changes occurring in the financial services industry, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to accurately predict and respond to market developments or demands, our business will be adversely affected. The market for financial institutions payments and cash management solutions continues to develop and evolve. This makes it difficult to predict demand for our products. We cannot guarantee that the market for our products will grow or that our products will become widely accepted. If the market for our products does not develop in the time frames and demand that we have projected, our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected. In addition, changes in technologies, industry standards, the regulatory environment, customer requirements and new product introductions by existing or future competitors could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable, or require us to develop new products. A significant increase in the number of customers and/or a significant increase in our development of new product offerings would require us to expend significant amounts of money, time and other resources to meet demand. These expenditures could strain our personnel and financial resources. -2- We are and expect to continue to be dependent upon a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our future revenues. We believe that the market for our payments and cash management software products and services consists of a relatively small number of customers who have very large potential accounts as well as a great number of customers comprising smaller accounts. These large accounts may from time to time comprise a significant percentage of our revenues in a specific fiscal period. Our failure to attract and retain these large accounts may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have entered into contracts with two customers for the sale of one of our payments products and one for sale of our securities product. These customers represented 14%, 10% and 7% of our revenues in 2005 and 2%, 14% and 2% of our revenues in 2004. The cessation of projects of this size, which have an indefinite term, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could also negatively impact the market acceptance of this product. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be derived from a relatively small number of customers. We cannot assure you that other customers will purchase our products and services in the future. See Item 5, “Operating Results and Financial Review and Prospects - Major Customers.” Our sales cycle is variable and sometimes long and involves significant resources on our part, but may never result in actual sales. Our sales cycle from our initial contact with a potential customer to the signing of a license agreement has historically been lengthy and is variable. We generally must educate our potential customers about the use and benefit of our products and services, which can require the investment of significant time and resources. In addition, the purchasing decisions of our customers are subject to the uncertainties and delays of the budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes that typically accompany significant capital expenditures. If our sales cycle lengthens, our quarterly operating results may become less predictable and may fluctuate more widely than in the past. A number of companies decide which products to buy through a request for proposal process. In those situations, we run the risk of investing significant resources in a proposal that does not result in revenue, because either a competitor obtains the desired contract from the customer or the customer decides not to proceed with the project or the customer decides to internally develop the product. Due to the relatively large size of some orders, a lost or delayed sale could have a material adverse effect on our quarterly revenue and operating results. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly results, which makes it difficult for investors to make reliable period-to-period comparisons and may contribute to volatility in the market price for our Ordinary Shares. Our quarterly revenues, margins and results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past as a result of various factors, many of which are outside our control. These factors include: · the size, timing and shipment of orders for our products and services; · changes in global economic conditions in general, and conditions in our industry and target markets in particular; · our customers’ budget cycles; · the timing of the release of new product upgrades; · any lengthening of our sales cycle; -3- · changes in the proportion of service and license revenues; · price and product competition; · enhancements or introductions by us and our competitors; · the mix of product sales; · software “bugs” or other product quality problems; · product pricing; · our effectiveness in providing customer support; · delays in implementation; · impact of unrest or political instability in the places we do business, such as the current unrest in Israel; · consolidation of our customers; and · currency fluctuations. A substantial portion of our expenses, including most product development and selling and marketing expenses, must be incurred in advance of when revenue is generated. If our projected revenue does not meet our expectations, we are likely to experience an even larger shortfall in our operating profit relative to our expectations. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely on them as an indication for future performance. It is also possible that our quarterly results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this happens, the price of our Ordinary Shares will likely decrease. Decisions by customers to develop their own payments and cash management solutions or greater market acceptance of our competitors’ products could result in reduced revenues. The market for payments and cash management solutions is continuing to develop and competition is intense. We compete for the business of global or national and regional financial services organizations that seek to support complex and sophisticated products. Some of the larger financial institutions have developed products that are similar in function to our global payments and cash management products, in lieu of purchasing our products which they have then marketed to other banks or implemented in banks that they have acquired. Thus we might be competing with both software vendors within our industry and the in-house IT departments of certain of our clients. We believe there are several principal competitive factors in the industry in which we operate, including: · product performance; · technical features; -4- · compatibility with existing operating systems; · reliability; · security; · relational database power; · price; · customer service and support; and · ease of use. Our competitors may be in a better position to devote significant funds and resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products, thus enabling them to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to successfully market their products. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of consolidation within the industry. As we develop new products, we may begin to compete with companies with which we have not previously competed. Our competitors include, but are not limited to, BankServ, Logica PLC, Digital Insights, Inc., Politzer & Haney, S1 Corporation, Fidelity Information Services, Banklink, TietoEnator, Sunguard, Smartstream Technologies and Transaction Systems Architects, Inc. We may be unable to differentiate our products from the products of our competitors or successfully develop and introduce new products that are less costly than, or superior to, those of our competitors. In addition, existing and new competitors may establish relationships with our existing and potential customers. This could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete. In addition to our current competitors, we expect substantial competition from both established and emerging companies. Many of our existing and potential competitors have, or are likely to have, more extensive engineering, development, marketing, distribution, financial, technological and personnel resources than us. This increased competition may result in our loss of market share and pricing pressure which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that competition with both competitors within our industry and with the in-house IT departments of certain of our clients or prospective clients will not result in price reductions for our products and services, fewer customer orders, deferred payment terms, reduced revenues or loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 4B, “Information on the Company — Business Overview — Competition.” We may be unable to expand our support organizations which may hinder our ability to grow and meet customer demands and rapid expansion of these resources could increase our cost and reduce our operating profit. Prior to 2003 in order to reduce costs, we substantially reduced the number of employees in both our research & development and administrative departments. We may need to increase our technical and customer support staff to support new customers and the expanding needs of existing customers. With the addition of our Cashtech business, we are increasingly looking to India to source these requirements. Since our products are complex we expect that the training process will take a significant period of time before these personnel can support our customers. Qualified individuals are in demand throughout the software industry globally and there is significant competition for qualified personnel. Competition for qualified people may lead to increased labor and personnel costs. If we do not succeed in retaining our personnel or in attracting new employees, our business could suffer significantly. If we are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our objectives and our business could be harmed. -5- Marketing and distributing our products outside of the United States may require increased expenses and greater exposure to risks that we may not be able to successfully address. We market and sell our products and services throughout the world. We received 39.3% of our total revenues in 2003, 45.5% of our total revenues in 2004 and 46.4% of our total revenues in 2005 from sales to customers located outside of the United States. The expansion of our existing operations and entry into additional international markets will require significant management attention and financial resources. We are subject to a number of risks customary for international operations, including: · economic or political changes in international markets; · greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; · the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; · multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures; and · currency and exchange rate fluctuations. The market price of our Ordinary Shares may be volatile. The stock market in general, and particularly over the past four years, has experienced price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of technology companies have not completely recovered from the declines experienced in the year 2000, and have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. For additional information, see the table in Item 9, “The Offer and Listing — Market Price Information.” These market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our Ordinary Shares. The market price of the Ordinary Shares may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: · any actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; · public announcements concerning us or our competitors, or the financial services industry; · our inability to meet any guidance or forward looking information, if provided; · the introduction or market acceptance of new service offerings by us or our competitors; · changes in security analysts’ financial estimates; -6- · changes in accounting principles; · sales of our Ordinary Shares by existing shareholders; · the loss of any of our key personnel; and · changes in the political conditions in Israel. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, which could cause serious harm to our business. We are trending toward a lower percentage of license fees and a greater percentage in service revenues in our revenue models. The combination of sales to major clients containing a significant services component to implement software globally, increases in sales where significant modifications are required to meet customer specific demands (“Solution Sales”) and increasing selection of our ASP hosted solution in lieu of our licensed solution, particularly with respect to our CASHplus software, may result in a change in the way our share value is viewed by the marketplace. Although we continue to believe that a solutions and hosting based revenue model has numerous advantages, particularly in recurring revenue and visibility into our future earnings, the marketplace may view our share price as a solutions based business in a different way than it views a license based business. This may lead to volatility in our share price. Future sales of our Ordinary Shares in the public market or issuances of additional securities could cause the market price for our Ordinary Shares to fall. As of June 14, 2006, we had 15,123,858 Ordinary Shares outstanding, and, in addition, we have reserved up to 2,333,733 Ordinary Shares for issuance under our option plans. If a large number of our Ordinary Shares are sold, the price of our Ordinary Shares would likely decrease or if we continue to issue shares, convertible securities, warrants restricted shares and/or options the price of our Ordinary Shares may decrease. We may continue to issue restricted shares or options and the issuance of these securities could be dilutive to our shareholders. Future acquisitions involving the issuance of shares as part of the purchase price could result in dilution. Certain warrants or options, when issued, may require us to reflect appropriate charges in our financial statements at that time. See also “Any future acquisitions of companies or technologies may distract our management and disrupt our business.” below. Undetected defects may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products and technology. Our software products are complex and may contain undetected defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Testing of our products is particularly challenging because it is difficult to simulate the wide variety of customer environments into which our products are deployed. Despite testing conducted by us and our customers, some defects have been discovered after their commercial shipment. Our products are frequently more critical to our customers’ operations compared to other software solutions used by such customers, and as a result, our customers may have a greater sensitivity to product defects relating to our products. The finding of defects in current or future products and versions after the start of commercial shipment may result in: -7- · a delay or failure of our products to achieve market acceptance; · adverse customer reaction; · negative publicity and damage to our reputation; · diversion of resources; and · increased service and maintenance costs. Defects could also subject us to legal claims. Although our license agreements contain limitation of liability provisions, these provisions may not be sufficient to protect us against these legal claims. The sale and support of our products, as well as our professional services, may also expose us to product liability claims. Any future acquisitions of companies or technologies may distract our management and disrupt our business. We have in the past acquired certain assets of Sterling Commerce and CheckFree Holdings Corporation, as well as all of the stock of Biveroni Batschelet Partners AG, Switzerland, Datasphere SA and Cashtech Solutions India Private Limited, and Radius Partners, Inc. and may in the future acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, if appropriate opportunities arise. We may also engage in discussions and negotiations with companies about our acquiring or investing in those companies’ businesses, products, services or technologies. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to identify future suitable acquisition or investment candidates, or if we do identify suitable candidates, that we will be able to make the acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms or at all or that we will have sufficient available resources for such acquisitions or investments. If we acquire or invest in another company, we could have difficulty assimilating that company’s personnel, operations, customers, technology or products and service offerings into our own. The key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. We may incur indebtedness or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities could be dilutive to our existing shareholders. We have a limited operating history with respect to certain of our principal products, which makes it difficult to predict future results of operations. From 1999 through 2002, we spent considerable time, effort and money developing our next generation software, including: PAYplus USA™, a funds transfer solution for use by banks, thrifts, and international agency banks operating in the United States, Global PAYplus™ funds transfer solution handling both local and global payments activity, PAYplus for CLS software used in foreign exchange settlements and CASHplus®, an Internet based cash management solution that has multi-currency capabilities. PAYplus USA™ is now operating in approximately 160 banks, PAYplus for CLS is currently operating in approximately 18 banks, and we have more recently begun to implement Global PAYplus™ and CASHplus®. This limited history of operations for our newer solutions and their delivery modes, makes it difficult to predict future results of operations. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent upon our internally developed technology. Other than our trademarks, our intellectual property consists primarily of proprietary or confidential information that is not subject to patent or similar protections. In general, we have relied on a combination of technical leadership, trade secret, copyright and trademark law and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary know-how. Unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use the technology protected by those rights. Any infringement of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. -8- We have placed, and in the future may place, our software source code in escrow. The software source code may, under specified circumstances, be made available to our customers. In certain limited instances, we have also provided our software source code directly to customers. This may increase the likelihood of misappropriation or other misuse of our software. Substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in the software industry. We expect that software products may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. We believe that many industry participants have filed or intend to file patent and trademark applications covering aspects of their technology. We cannot be certain that they will not make a claim of infringement against us based on our products and technology. Any claims, with or without merit, could: · be expensive and time-consuming to defend; · cause product shipment and installation delays; · affect the decision by prospective customers to enter into agreements with us; · divert management’s attention and resources; or · require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to obtain the right to use a necessary product or component. If we are required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, such agreements may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Therefore, a successful claim of product infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology at all or to license the infringed or similar technology for reasonable commercial terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We utilize software from third parties. If we cannot continue using that software on commercially reasonable terms, we would have to spend additional capital to redesign our existing software. We utilize off-the-shelf third-party software products to optimize the performance of our products. Our business would be disrupted if functional versions of this software were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. In either case, we would be required to spend additional capital to either redesign our software to function with alternate third-party software or develop these components ourselves. If this third-party software were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms, we might be forced re-engineer our current or future product offerings and the commercial release of our products could be delayed, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. -9- Government regulatory policy for the financial services industry affects our business. Our current and prospective customers, which include state and federally chartered banks and savings and loan associations, operate in markets that are subject to extensive and complex regulation. While we are not ourselves directly subject to this regulation, our products and services must be designed to work within the regulatory constraints under which our customers operate. The inability of our products and services to work properly within the regulatory framework may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Location in Israel It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforce judgments against directors, officers and experts in Israel. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel. Many of our executive officers and directors named in this annual report are nonresidents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of those persons. It may also be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under United States federal securities laws in actions initiated in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel and the Middle East as a whole, could negatively impact our business. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel have a direct influence on us because one of our significant research and development facilities and one of our executive offices is located there. Any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations. We cannot assure you that ongoing hostilities related to Israel will not have a material adverse effect on our business or on our share price. Several Arab countries still restrict business with Israeli companies and these restrictions may have an adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition or the expansion of our business. We could be adversely affected by restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel and Israeli businesses. The future of peace efforts between Israel and its Arab neighbors is uncertain. Since October 2000, there has been a significant deterioration in Israel’s relationship with the Palestinian Authority, including a series of armed clashes between Israel, the armed forces of the Palestinian Authority, and terrorist organizations, and acts of terror have been committed inside Israel. Also, the recent war in Iraq led by coalition forces and the short and long term consequences of such war may negatively impact our business. The local situation has been exacerbated by the recent election of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of seats in delegates in the Palestinian Legislative Council. All indications are that there is no short term relief in sight for these problems. Generally, all male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 54 are, unless exempt, obligated to perform up to 36 days of military reserve duty annually. Additionally, all Israeli residents of this age are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Some of our officers and employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty. Although we have operated effectively under these requirements since we began operations, we cannot assess the full impact of these requirements on our workforce or business if political and military conditions should change, and we cannot predict the effect on us of any expansion or reduction of these obligations. We may be adversely affected if the rate of inflation in Israel exceeds the rate of devaluation of the new Israeli shekel against the dollar. Most of our revenues are in dollars or are linked to the dollar, while a portion of our expenses, principally salaries and the related personnel expenses, are in new Israeli Shekels, or NIS. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar or that the timing of this devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. This would have the effect of increasing the dollar cost of our operations. In 1999 and in 2000, while the rate of inflation was low, there was a devaluation of the dollar against the NIS, and in 2001 the rate of devaluation of the NIS against the dollar exceeded the rate of inflation. In 2002, the devaluation of the NIS against the dollar was similar to the rate of inflation. In 2003, the NIS gained in value against the dollar while the rate of inflation was negative. During 2004, the valuation of NIS against the dollar was stable. In 2005, the NIS devalued against the dollar at a greater rate than inflation. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of devaluation of the NIS against the dollar. If the dollar cost of our operations in Israel increases, our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. -10- The tax benefits available to us from government programs may be discontinued or reduced at any time, which would likely increase our taxes. We have received Government grants in the past and currently receive tax benefits under Israeli government programs. To maintain our eligibility for these programs and benefits, we must continue to meet specified conditions. Some of these programs restrict our ability to transfer particular technology outside of Israel. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the benefits received could be canceled and we could be required to refund any payments previously received under these programs or pay increased taxes. The government of Israel has reduced the benefits available under these programs recently and these programs and tax benefits may be discontinued or reduced in the future. Under current Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We currently have non-competition agreements with our employees. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from directly competing with us or working for our competitors. Recently, Israeli courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer which have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that harm would be caused to us, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. The government grants we have received for research and development expenditures restrict our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. From time to time we have received royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Government of Israel (“OCS”). The terms of these grants prohibit us from manufacturing products or transferring technologies developed using these grants outside of Israel without special approvals. Even if we receive approval to manufacture these products outside of Israel, we may be required to pay increased royalties, up to 300% of the grant amount plus interest, depending on the manufacturing volume that is performed outside of Israel. The technology developed with these grants may not be transferred to third parties, including in the context of an acquisition of our company, without the prior approval of a governmental committee under the Research and Development Law, and may not be transferred to non-residents of Israel without such approval. These restrictions may impair our ability to outsource manufacturing or engage in similar arrangements for those products or technologies. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions imposed by the OCS, we may be required to refund any grants previously received, together with interest and penalties. In 2002, the Research and Development Law was amended to, among other things, enable companies applying for grants from the OCS to seek prior approval for conducting manufacturing activities outside of Israel without being subject to increased royalties. However, this amendment will not apply to any of our existing grants. In addition, the amendment provides that one of the factors to be taken into consideration by the OCS in deciding whether to approve a grant application is the percentage of the manufacturing of the relevant product that will be conducted outside of Israel. Accordingly, should we seek additional grants from the OCS in connection with which we also seek prior approval for manufacturing products outside of Israel, we may not receive such grant or may receive a grant in an amount that is less than the amount we sought. -11- Our United States investors could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. Although we believe that we were not a passive foreign investment company in 2005, we cannot assure you that the IRS will agree with our position. We would be a passive foreign investment company if (i) 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year, including our pro rata share of the gross income of any company treated as a corporation for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, U.S. or foreign, in which we are considered to own directly or indirectly 25% or more of the shares by value, is passive income, or (ii) the value of our assets average quarterly our the taxable year, including our pro rata share of the assets of any company treated as a corporation for U.S. Federal income tax purposes in which we are considered to own directly or indirectly 25% or more of the shares by value, in a taxable year that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income is at least 50%. Passive income includes interest, dividends, royalties, rents and annuities. If we are or become a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. investors could be subject to adverse tax consequences, including: · being taxed at ordinary income tax rates on gain from the sale or other disposition of our Ordinary Shares (and on certain distributions on our Ordinary Shares); · being subject to interest on the tax liability resulting from the sale or other disposition of our Ordinary Shares (and on certain distributions on such shares) as if the gain from such sale or such distribution had been recognized ratably over the U.S. investors’ holding period and subject to the highest ordinary income tax rates in effect in the year to which allocated; and · being denied the normally-available increase in tax basis to fair market value for Ordinary Shares acquired from decedents. For additional information, see Item 10E, “Additional Information — Taxation.” ITEM 