Item 1A: Risk Factors The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Further, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to accurately estimate and control future health care costs. Most of the premium revenue we receive is based upon rates set months before we deliver services. As a result, our results of operations largely depend on our ability to accurately estimate and control future health care costs. We base the premiums we charge, at least in part, on our estimate of expected health care costs over the applicable premium period. Accordingly, costs we incur in excess of our cost projections generally are not recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. We estimate our costs of future benefit claims and related expenses using actuarial methods and assumptions based upon claim payment patterns, inflation, historical developments (including claim inventory levels and claim receipt patterns) and other relevant factors. We also record benefits payable for future payments. We continually review estimates of future payments relating to benefit claims costs for services incurred in the current and prior periods and make necessary adjustments to our reserves. These estimates involve extensive judgment, and have considerable inherent variability that is sensitive to payment patterns and medical cost trends. Factors that may cause health care costs to exceed our estimates include: 12 · an increase in the cost of health care services and supplies, including pharmaceuticals; · higher than expected utilization of health care services; · periodic renegotiations of hospital, physician and other provider contracts; · the occurrence of catastrophic events, including epidemics and natural disasters; · changes in the demographics of our members and medical trends affecting them; · general inflation or economic downturns; · new mandated benefits or other legislative or regulatory changes that increase our costs; · clusters of high cost cases; · changes in or new technology; and · other unforeseen occurrences. In addition, medical liabilities in our financial statements include our estimated reserves for incurred but not reported and reported but not paid claims. The estimates for medical liabilities are made on an accrual basis. We believe that our reserves for medical liabilities are adequate, but we cannot assure you of this. Increases from our current estimates of liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. Our results of operations will be adversely affected if we are unable to increase premiums to offset increases in our health care costs. Our results of operations depend on our ability to increase premiums to offset increases in our health care costs. Although we attempt to base the premiums we charge on our estimate of future health care costs, we may not be able to control the premiums we charge as a result of competition, government regulations and other factors. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to set premium rates at appropriate levels or adjust premium rates in the event our health care costs increase. General economic conditions and disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect our business, results of operations and investment portfolio. Worldwide financial markets have experienced extreme disruptions, including extraordinarily volatile stock prices and diminished liquidity and availability of credit. Together with the current recessionary environment in the U.S. and abroad and other unfavorable economic developments such as high unemployment, these developments could adversely affect our business, results of operations and investment portfolio. For instance, a decline in members covered under our plans could result from layoffs and downsizing or the elimination of health benefits by employers seeking to cut costs. Economic conditions could cause our existing members to seek health coverage alternatives that we do not offer or could, in addition to significant membership loss, result in lower average premium yields or decreased margins on continuing membership. In addition, the economic downturn could negatively affect our employer group renewals and our ability to increase premiums. The state of the economy also adversely affects the states’ budgets, which can result in states attempting to reduce payments to Medicaid plans in those states in which we offer Medicaid plans, and to increase taxes and assessments on our activities. Although we could attempt to mitigate our exposure from such increased costs through, among other things, increases in premiums, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. A drop in the prices of securities across global financial markets could negatively affect our investment portfolio. Some of our investments could further experience other-than-temporary declines in fair value, requiring us to record impairment charges that adversely impact our financial results. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry and changes in laws or regulations or alleged violations of regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is heavily regulated by federal, state and local authorities. Legislation or other regulatory reform that increases the regulatory requirements imposed on us or that changes the way we currently do business may in the future adversely affect our business and results of operations. Legislative or regulatory changes that could significantly harm us and our subsidiaries include changes that: · impose increased liability for adverse consequences of medical decisions; · require coverage of pre-existing conditions; · limit premium levels or establish minimum medical expense ratios for certain products; · increase minimum capital, reserves and other financial viability requirements; · increase government sponsorship of competing health plans; · impose fines or other penalties for the failure to pay claims promptly; · impose fines or other penalties as a result of market conduct reviews; · prohibit or limit rental access to health care provider networks; · prohibit or limit provider financial incentives and provider risk-sharing arrangements; · require health plans to offer expanded or new benefits; · limit the ability of health plans to manage care and utilization, including “any willing provider” and direct access laws that restrict or prohibit product features that encourage members to seek services from contracted providers or through referral by a primary care provider; · limit contractual terms with providers, including audit, payment and termination provisions; · implement mandatory third party review processes for coverage denials; and · impose additional health care information privacy or security requirements. 13 Congress and state legislatures continue to focus on health care issues and to consider major changes that would affect both public programs and privately-financed health insurance arrangements. The U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate each passed healthcare reform bills at the end of 2009; however neither of these bills has yet become law. The bills and other reform measures under consideration include proposals that would result in significant new taxes on the health insurance industry and/or on employers offering certain plans, immediately effective market reforms (such as a ban on lifetime limits, new benefit mandates, increased dependant coverage and limits on pre-existing condition exclusions), expansion of eligibility under existing Medicaid and/or FEHBP programs, minimum medical benefit ratios for health plans, new individual insurance requirements, Medicare Advantage funding cuts, administrative cost caps, and new government-run plans or insurance exchanges. These or other changes could have a material adverse impact on our business operations and financial condition. In addition, several states are considering legislative proposals that could impact our ability to obtain appropriate premium rates and that would mandate certain benefits and forbid certain policy provisions, or otherwise materially adversely impact our business operations and financial condition. We also may be subject to governmental investigations or inquiries from time to time. The existence of such investigations in our industry could negatively affect the market value of all companies in our industry including our stock price. As a result of recent investigations, including audits, CMS has imposed sanctions and fines including immediate suspension of all enrollment and marketing activities and civil monetary penalties on certain Medicare Advantage plans run by our competitors. In addition, qui tam suits brought by whistleblowers have resulted in significant settlements. Any similar governmental investigations of Coventry could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or business or result in significant liabilities to the Company, as well as adverse publicity. Changes to laws may impact our ability to enroll beneficiaries and the viability of certain of our Medicare Advantage plans. MIPPA imposes restrictions on the ability to market Medicare Advantage and PDPs. We are required to obtain and maintain various regulatory approvals to offer many of our products. Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain or maintain these approvals could adversely impact our results of operations. Federal, state and local authorities frequently consider changes to laws and regulations that could adversely affect our business. We cannot predict the changes that government authorities will approve in the future or assure you that those changes will not have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We may be adversely affected by changes in government funding for Medicare and Medicaid. The federal government and many states from time to time consider altering the level of funding for government healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. The DEFRA included Medicaid cuts of approximately $4.8 billion over five years. MIPPA reduced federal spending on the Medicare Advantage program by $48.7 billion over the 2008-2018 period. In addition, MIPPA mandated that the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission report on both the quality of care provided under Medicare Advantage plans and the cost to the Medicare program of such plans. Current healthcare reform proposals would impose additional cuts to the Medicare Advantage program. Additional proposed regulatory changes would, if implemented, further reduce federal Medicaid funding. We cannot predict future Medicare or Medicaid funding levels or ensure that changes to Medicare or Medicaid funding will not have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. A reduction in the number of members in our health plans could adversely affect our results of operations. A reduction in the number of members in our health plans could adversely affect our results of operations. Factors that could contribute to the loss of membership include: · competition in premium or plan benefits from other health care benefit companies; · reductions in the number of employers offering health care coverage; · reductions in work force by existing customers; · adverse economic conditions; · our increases in premiums or benefit changes; · our exit from a market or the termination of a health plan; · negative publicity and news coverage relating to our company or the managed health care industry generally; and · catastrophic events, including natural disasters, epidemics, man-made catastrophes, and other unforeseen occurrences. Our growth strategy is dependent in part upon our ability to acquire additional managed care businesses and successfully integrate those businesses into our operations. Part of our growth strategy is to grow through the acquisition of additional health plans and other managed care businesses. Historically, we have significantly increased our revenues through a number of acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to locate suitable acquisition candidates, obtain required governmental approvals, successfully integrate the businesses we acquire and realize anticipated operational improvements and cost savings. The businesses we acquire also may not achieve our anticipated levels of profitability. Our future growth rate will be adversely affected if we are not able to successfully complete acquisitions. In such acquisitions, we may assume liabilities that could adversely affect our business. Additionally, we may issue stock in connection with such acquisitions, which would result in dilution to existing stockholders, or we could incur debt to finance such acquisitions. Competition may limit our ability to attract new members or to increase or maintain our premium rates, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment that may affect our ability to attract new members and increase premium rates. We compete with other health plans for members. We believe the principal factors influencing the choice among health care options are: · price of benefits offered and cost and risk of alternatives such as self-insurance; · location and choice of health care providers; · quality of customer service; · comprehensiveness of coverage offered; · reputation for quality care; · financial stability of the plan; and · diversity of product offerings. We compete with other managed care companies that may have broader geographical coverage, more established reputations in our markets, greater market share, larger contracting scale, lower costs and/or greater financial and other resources. We also may face increased rate competition from certain Blue Cross plan competitors that might be required by state regulation to reduce capital surpluses that may be deemed excessive. 14 The non-renewal or termination of our government contracts, or unsuccessful bids for business with government agencies, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our contracts with state government programs are subject to renewal, terminations and competitive bidding procedures. In particular, the contract between our HealthCare USA subsidiary and the Missouri Medicaid program, MO HealthNet, runs from October 1, 2009 through June 30, 2010. This contract is subject to two successive one-year extensions running through June 30, 2012, if MO HealthNet so elects. If we are unable to renew or successfully re-bid for this and/or other of our state contracts, or if such contracts were terminated or renewed on less favorable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, on May 1, 2009, we notified CMS of our intention to cease offering PFFS products. This non-renewal took effect at the end of the term of this current year, December 31, 2009. We depend on the services of non-exclusive independent agents and brokers to market our products to employers, and we cannot assure you that they will continue to market our products in the future. We depend on the services of independent agents and brokers to market our managed care products and services, particularly to small employer group members. We do not have long term contracts with independent agents and brokers, who typically are not dedicated exclusively to us and frequently market the health care products of our competitors. We face intense competition for the services and allegiance of independent agents and brokers, and we cannot assure you that agents and brokers will continue to market our products in a fair and consistent manner. If we fail to obtain cost-effective agreements with a sufficient number of providers we may experience higher medical costs and a decrease in our membership. Our future results largely depend on our ability to enter into cost-effective agreements with hospitals, physicians and other health care providers. The terms of those provider contracts will have a material effect on our medical costs and our ability to control these costs. In addition, our ability to contract successfully with a sufficiently large number of providers in a particular geographic market will impact the relative attractiveness of our managed care products in those markets, and our ability to contract at competitive rates with our PPO and workers’ compensation related providers will affect the attractiveness and profitability of our products in the national account, network rental and workers’ compensation businesses. In some of our markets, there are large provider systems that have a major presence. Some of these large provider systems have operated their own health plans in the past or may choose to do so in the future. These provider systems could adversely affect our product offerings and results of operations if they refuse to contract with us, place us at a competitive disadvantage or use their market position to negotiate contracts that are less favorable to us. Provider agreements are subject to periodic renewal and renegotiations. We cannot assure you that these large provider systems will continue to contract with us or that they will contract with us on terms that are favorable to us. Negative publicity regarding the managed health care industry generally, or our Company in particular, could adversely affect our results of operations or business. Over the last several years, the managed health care industry has been subject to a significant amount of negative publicity. Negative publicity regarding the managed health care industry generally, or our Company in particular, may result in increased regulation and legislative review of industry practices, further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our results of operations by: · requiring us to change our products and services; · increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate; or · adversely affecting our ability to market our products or services to employers, individuals or other customers. Negative publicity relating to our company also may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain members. A failure of our information technology systems could adversely affect our business. We depend on our information technology systems for timely and accurate information. Failure to maintain effective and efficient information technology systems or disruptions in our information technology systems could cause disruptions in our business operations, loss of existing customers, difficulty in attracting new customers, disputes with customers and providers, regulatory problems, increases in administrative expenses and other adverse consequences. We face periodic reviews, audits and investigations under our contracts with federal and state government agencies, and these audits could have adverse findings that may negatively affect our business. We contract with various federal and state governmental agencies to provide managed health care services. Pursuant to these contracts, we are subject to various governmental reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts and applicable laws and regulations. Any adverse review, audit or investigation could result in: · refunding of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts; · imposition of fines, penalties and other sanctions on us; · loss of our right to participate in various federal programs; · damage to our reputation in various markets; · increased difficulty in selling our products and services; and · loss of one or more of our licenses to act as an insurer or HMO or to otherwise provide a service. CMS periodically performs RADV audits and may seek return of premium payments made to the company if risk adjustment factors are not properly supported by medical record data. We estimate and record reserves for CMS audits based on information available at the time the estimates are made. The judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies include significant estimates related to the amount of hierarchical condition category (“HCC”) revenue subject to audit and anticipated error rates. Although we believe the Company maintains appropriate reserves for its exposure to the RADV audits, actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Accordingly, CMS audit results could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. 15 We are subject to litigation in the ordinary course of our business, including litigation based on new or evolving legal theories that could adversely affect our results of operations. Due to the nature of our business, we are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations including claims relating to: · our denial of non-covered benefits; · vicarious liability for medical malpractice claims filed against our providers; · disputes with our providers alleging RICO and antitrust violations; · disputes with our providers over reimbursement and termination of provider contracts; · disputes related to our non-risk business, including actions alleging breach of fiduciary duties, claim administration errors and failure to disclose network rate discounts and other fee and rebate arrangements; · disputes over our co-payment calculations; · customer audits of our compliance with our plan obligations; and · disputes over payments for out-of-network benefits. We describe certain litigation to which we have been parties in Note L, Commitments and Contingencies, to our consolidated financial statements. In addition, plaintiffs continue to bring new types of legal claims against managed care companies. Recent court decisions and legislative activity increase our exposure to these types of claims. In some cases, plaintiffs may seek class action status and substantial economic, non-economic or punitive damages. The loss of even one of these claims, if it resulted in a significant damage award, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In the event a plaintiff was to obtain a significant damage award it may make reasonable settlements of claims more difficult to obtain. We cannot determine with any certainty what new theories of recovery may evolve or what their impact may be on the managed care industry in general or on us in particular. We have, and expect to maintain, liability insurance coverage for some of the potential legal liabilities we may incur. Currently, professional liability and employment practices liability insurance is covered through our captive subsidiary. Potential liabilities that we incur may not, however, be covered by insurance, our insurers may dispute coverage or may be unable to meet their obligations or the amount of our insurance coverage may be inadequate. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future, or that insurance will continue to be available on a cost effective basis, if at all. Our stock price and trading volume may be volatile. From time to time, the price and trading volume of our common stock, as well as the stock of other companies in the health care industry, may experience periods of significant volatility. Company-specific issues and developments generally in the health care industry (including the regulatory environment) and the capital markets and the economy in general may cause this volatility. Our stock price and trading volume may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including: · variations in our operating results; · changes in the market’s expectations about our future operating results; · changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning our company or the health care industry generally; · operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; · news reports relating to trends in our markets; · changes or proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting our business; · acquisitions and financings by us or others in our industry; and · sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our directors and executive officers or principal stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur. Our indebtedness imposes certain restrictions on our business and operations. The indentures for our senior notes and bank credit agreement impose restrictions on our business and operations. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things: · incur additional debt; · pay dividends, repurchase common stock, or make other restricted payments; · create or permit certain liens on our assets; · sell assets; · create or permit restrictions on the ability of certain of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; · enter into transactions with affiliates; · enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and · consolidate or merge with or into other companies or sell all or substantially all of our assets. Our ability to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness will depend on numerous factors beyond our control. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate the cash necessary to service our indebtedness is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. In addition, we will be more vulnerable to economic downturns, adverse industry conditions and competitive pressures as a result of our significant indebtedness. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms. 16 A substantial amount of our cash flow is generated by our regulated subsidiaries. Our regulated subsidiaries conduct a substantial amount of our consolidated operations. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to pay our debt and fund future acquisitions depends, in part, on the amount of cash that the parent company receives from our regulated subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries’ ability to make any payments to the parent company will depend on their earnings, business and tax considerations, legal and regulatory restrictions and economic conditions. Our regulated subsidiaries are subject to HMO and insurance regulations that require them to meet or exceed various capital standards and may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make cash transfers to the parent company. If our regulated subsidiaries are restricted from paying the parent company dividends or otherwise making cash transfers to the parent company, it could have a material adverse effect on the parent company’s cash flow. For additional information regarding our regulated subsidiaries’ statutory capital requirements, see Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - - Statutory Capital Requirements.” Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law could delay, discourage or prevent a change in control of our Company that our stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may delay, discourage or prevent a merger, acquisition or change in control involving our company that our stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. Among other things, these provisions: · provide for a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms so that no more than one-third of our directors can be replaced at any annual meeting; · provide that directors may be removed without cause only by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of our outstanding shares; · provide that amendment or repeal of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation establishing our classified board of directors must be approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of three-fourths of our outstanding shares; and · establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at a meeting. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage transactions that otherwise could provide for the payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock and also could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our results of operations and shareholders’ equity could be materially adversely affected if we have an impairment of our intangible assets. Due largely to our past acquisitions, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our total assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $3.0 billion as of December 31, 2009, representing approximately 36.7% of our total assets. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we perform periodic assessments of our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. This impairment testing requires us to make assumptions and judgments regarding the estimated fair value of our reporting units. Fair value is calculated using a blend of a projected income and market value approach. Estimated fair values developed based on our assumptions and judgments might be significantly different if other assumptions and estimates were to be used. Any future evaluations requiring an asset impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially affect our results of operations and shareholders’ equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. 17 Our efforts to capitalize on Medicare business opportunities could prove to be unsuccessful. Medicare programs represent a significant portion of our business, accounting for approximately 50.7% of our managed care premium revenue in 2009. In connection with the passage of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the “Drug Act”) and the Drug Act’s implementing regulations adopted in 2005, we have significantly expanded our Medicare health plans and restructured our Medicare program management team and operations to enhance our ability to pursue business opportunities presented by the Drug Act and the Medicare program generally. Particular risks associated with our providing Medicare Part D prescription drug benefits under the Drug Act include potential uncollectability of receivables, inadequacy of underwriting assumptions, inability to receive and process information and increased pharmaceutical costs (as well as the underlying seasonality of this business). In 2007, we expanded our Medicare programs. Specifically, we expanded our Medicare Part D prescription drug benefits plans to all states, and enhanced our HMO/PPO product offerings. All of these growth activities required substantial administrative and operational capabilities. If we are unable to maintain the administrative and operational capabilities to address the additional needs and increasing regulation of our remaining Medicare programs, it could have a material adverse effect on our Medicare business and operating results. In addition, if the cost or complexity of the recent Medicare changes exceed our expectations or prevent effective program implementation, if the government alters or reduces funding of Medicare programs, if we fail to design and maintain programs that are attractive to Medicare participants or if we are not successful in winning contract renewals or new contracts under the Drug Act’s competitive bidding process, our current Medicare business and our ability to expand our Medicare operations could be materially and adversely affected, and we may not be able to realize any return on our investments in Medicare initiatives. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 