ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. There are numerous and varied risks, known and unknown, that may prevent us from achieving our goals. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks, or any other risks not described below, actually occur, it is likely that our business, financial condition, and/or operating results could be materially adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described below include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risk Relating to Our Company The report of our independent auditors contains an explanatory paragraph as to our ability to continue as a going concern, which could prevent us from obtaining new financing on reasonable terms or at all. Because we have had recurring losses, negative cash flows from operating activities and limited cash on hand in light of expected expenditures, the report of Marcum LLP, our independent auditors, with respect to our financial statements at December 31, 2012 and 2011, and for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, contains an explanatory paragraph as to our potential inability to continue as a going concern. This opinion indicates that our auditors believe that substantial doubt exists regarding our ability to remain in business. Such an opinion may adversely affect our ability to obtain new financing on reasonable terms or at all. We have experienced significant losses and expect losses to continue for the foreseeable future. We have yet to establish any history of profitable operations. We have incurred annual net losses of $4,905,335 and $13,853,203, respectively, during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $22,620,397. We expect to incur additional operating losses for the foreseeable future. Although we expect sales and order backlogs to increase in 2013 from our existing product offerings, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve these revenues throughout the year or be profitable in the future. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS We will require additional capital in order to execute the longer term aspects of our business plan. We will pursue sources of additional capital through various means, including equity financing, joint ventures, debt financing or other means in order to execute the longer term aspects of our business plan, including the development of our product candidates. The research and development efforts related to our PHN patch and HepaMate will specifically require additional capital. There is no assurance that we will be successful in locating suitable financing transactions in a timely fashion or at all. Future financings through equity investments are likely to be dilutive to existing shareholders and the terms of securities we issue may be more favorable for new investors. Newly issued securities may include preferences, superior voting rights, and the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, which may have additional dilutive effects. Further, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital and/or financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which may adversely impact our financial condition. If we are unable to raise additional capital or encounter unforeseen circumstances that place constraints on our capital resources, we will be required to take various measures to conserve liquidity, which could include, but are not necessarily limited to, curtailing our business development activities, abandoning the development of our product candidates or suspending the pursuit of our business plan. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in securing additional capital. We depend on key personnel. We believe that our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to retain the skilled personnel we have recently added and attract additional skilled personnel, which may require substantial additional funds. There can be no assurance that we will be able to find and attract additional qualified employees or retain any such personnel. Our inability to hire qualified personnel, the loss of services of our key personnel, or the loss of services of executive officers or key employees that may be hired in the future may have a material and adverse effect on our business. Our strategic business plan may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income. Our strategies include making significant investments in sales and marketing programs to achieve revenue growth and margin improvement targets. If we do not achieve the expected benefits from these investments or otherwise fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may not achieve the growth improvement we are targeting and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our acquisition strategy may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income. As part of our strategy for growth, we may make acquisitions and enter into strategic alliances such as joint ventures and joint development agreements. However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. Such acquisitions could reduce shareholders’ ownership, cause us to incur debt, expose us to liabilities and result in amortization expenses related to intangible assets with definite lives. In addition, acquisitions involve other risks, including diversion of management resources otherwise available for ongoing development of our business and risks associated with entering new markets with which we have limited experience or where distribution alliances with experienced distributors are not available. Our future profitability may depend in part upon our ability to develop further our resources to adapt to these new products or business areas and to identify and enter into satisfactory distribution networks. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition as rapidly as expected or at all, or the acquired business may not perform in accordance with our expectations. We may also incur significant expenditures in anticipation of an acquisition that is never realized. There can be no assurance that difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our future success depends upon market acceptance of our existing and future products. We believe that our success will depend in part upon the acceptance of our existing and future products by the medical community, hospitals and physicians and other health care providers, third-party payers, and end-users. Such acceptance may depend upon the extent to which the medical community and end-users perceive our products as safer, more effective or cost-competitive than other similar products. Ultimately, for our new products to gain general market acceptance, it may also be necessary for us to develop marketing partners for the distribution of our products. There can be no assurance that our new products will achieve significant market acceptance on a timely basis, or at all. Failure of some or all of our future products to achieve significant market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are dependent on significant customers. AquaMed Technologies is our only subsidiary that currently generates any revenue and much of this revenue is generated from a limited number of clients, who account for a substantial percentage of our total revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2012, two major customers accounted for approximately 76% of revenue, with each customer individually accounting for 60%, and 16%, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2011, three major customers accounted for approximately 87% of our revenue, with each customer individually accounting for 59%, 15% and 13%, respectively. The loss of any of our significant customers would have a significantly negative effect on our overall operations. We may not be able to correctly estimate our future operating expenses, which could lead to cash shortfalls. Our operating expenses may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: ● the time and resources required to develop and conduct clinical trials and obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates; ● the costs to attract and retain personnel with the skills required for effective operations; and/or ● the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other patent related costs, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation. We operate in a highly competitive industry and face competition from large, well-established medical device manufacturers as well as new market entrants. Competition from other medical device companies and from research and academic institutions is intense, expected to increase, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. In addition to competing with universities and other research institutions in the development of products, technologies and processes, we compete with other companies in acquiring rights to products or technologies from those institutions. A number of factors may limit the market acceptance of our products, including the timing of regulatory approvals and market entry relative to competitive products, the availability of alternative products, the price of our products relative to alternative products, the availability of third party reimbursement and the extent of marketing efforts by third party distributors or agents that we retain. There can be no assurance that our products will receive market acceptance in a commercially viable period of time, if at all. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we can develop products that are more effective or achieve greater market acceptance than competitive products, or that our competitors will not succeed in developing or acquiring products and technologies that are more effective than those being developed by us, that would render our products and technologies less competitive or obsolete. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our competitors enjoy several competitive advantages over us, including some or all of the following: ● large and established distribution networks in the U.S. and/or in international markets; ● greater financial, managerial and other resources for products research and development, sales and marketing efforts and protecting and enforcing intellectual property rights; ● significantly greater name recognition; ● more expansive portfolios of intellectual property rights; ● established relations with physicians, hospitals, other healthcare providers and third party payors; ● products which have been approved by regulatory authorities for use in the U.S. and/or Europe and which are supported by long-term clinical data; and ● greater experience in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals and/or clearances from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other regulatory agencies. Our competitors’ products will compete directly with our products. In addition, our competitors as well as new market entrants may develop or acquire new treatments, products or procedures that will compete directly or indirectly with our products. The presence of this competition in our market may lead to pricing pressure which would make it more difficult to sell our products at a price that will make us profitable or prevent us from selling our products at all. Our failure to compete effectively would have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to realize the entire book value of intangibles. We assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events and circumstances indicates that it is more likely than not that our intangibles are impaired. If, after assessing the totality of events and circumstances, we determine that it is more likely than not that one of our intangibles is impaired, we then perform the quantitative impairment test by comparing the fair value of the intangible with the carrying amount for potential impairment. In the event that we determine the carrying value of intangibles is impaired, any such impairment would be charged to earnings in the period of impairment and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we did write down the goodwill associated with the HepaLife Biosystems reporting unit by its full value of $9,386,780. In accordance with authoritative guidance, we recognize in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) at fair value as of the acquisition date, and subsequently account for it as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. Once an IPR&D project has been completed, the useful life of the IPR&D asset is determined and amortized accordingly. If the IPR&D asset is abandoned, the remaining carrying value will be written off. During fiscal year 2010, we acquired IPR&D through a merger with AquaMed Technologies, Inc. Our IPR&D is comprised of the HepaMate technology, which was valued on the date of the merger, May 11, 2010. It will take additional financial resources to continue development of this technology. Although we believe that the HepaMate technology has significant long-term profit potential, to date, management has made a decision to allocate existing resources to the manufacture, research and development of other products that it expects will have more immediate returns on investment. We continue to seek additional resources, through both capital raising efforts and meeting and engaging industry experts, for further development of HepaMate. We are also actively seeking strategic partners for a joint venture to further this technology. Through December 31, 2012, we have not been successful in any of these efforts. Although there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful, we intend to allocate financial and personnel resources when deemed appropriate. If our efforts are unsuccessful and we aren’t able to fund the development of this technology, the related IPR&D value of $8,100,000 will need to be written down to zero. We are dependent on one reporting unit for all revenues At this point in time, we do not generate significant revenue from either Alliqua Biomedical, Inc. or HepaLife Biosystems, Inc. As a result, our business, operating results and financial condition are largely dependent upon the business, operating results and financial condition of AquaMed Technologies, Inc. Any decline in revenue or business prospects of AquaMed Technologies, Inc. will have a significant negative affect on us and our business. 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are subject to governmental regulations. Inherent in the development of new medical products is the potential for delay because product testing, including clinical evaluation, is required before most products can be approved for human use. As a manufacturer of medical products, we are generally subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the Federal Trade Commission, among other state and federal governmental authorities in the U.S., with respect to the manufacturing, marketing, labeling, record keeping, claims and advertising of our products. We are also subject to state regulation with respect to electron beam radiation services and facilities. The expansion of our business into the manufacturing and distribution of our products for consumer use will subject us to additional governmental regulation. While simple hydrogel patches are classified as Class I exempt devices by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, we are developing other products that will require us to go through the approval process with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. With respect to pharmaceutical products, the submission of a new drug application, or NDA, or an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration with supporting clinical safety and efficacy data, does not guarantee that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration will grant approval to market the product. Meeting the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s regulatory requirements to obtain approval to market a product typically takes many years, varies substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the pharmaceutical product, and the application process is subject to uncertainty. The NDA approval process for a new product varies in time, generally requiring a minimum of 10 months, but could also take several years from the date of application. The timing for the ANDA approval process for generic products is difficult to estimate and can vary significantly. NDA approvals, if granted, may not include all uses (known as indications) for which a company may seek to market a product. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration also requires companies to undertake post-approval surveillance regarding their drug products and to report adverse events. With respect to medical devices, such as those that we manufacture, before a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, an existing product can be marketed, it must first receive either premarket clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or premarket approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, unless an exemption applies. In the 510(k) clearance process, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration must determine that the proposed device is “substantially equivalent” to a device legally on the market, known as a “predicate” device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness to clear the proposed device for marketing. Clinical data is sometimes required to support substantial equivalence. The premarket approval pathway requires an applicant to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use based, in part, on extensive data including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trial, manufacturing and labeling data. The premarket approval process is typically required for devices that are deemed to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices. Both the 510(k) and premarket approval processes can be expensive and lengthy and entail significant user fees. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in, among other things, suspensions or withdrawals of approvals or clearances, seizures or recalls of products, injunctions against the manufacture, holding, distribution, marketing and sale of a product, civil and criminal sanctions. Furthermore, changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could prevent us from obtaining, or affect the timing of, future regulatory approvals. Meeting regulatory requirements and evolving government standards may delay marketing of our new products for a considerable period of time, impose costly procedures upon our activities and result in a competitive advantage to larger companies that compete against us. We cannot assure you that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or other regulatory agencies will approve any products developed by us, on a timely basis, if at all, or, if granted, that approval will not entail limiting the indicated uses for which we may market the product, which could limit the potential market for any of these products. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS Based on scientific developments, post-market experience, or other legislative or regulatory changes, the current U.S. Food and Drug Administration standards of review for approving new pharmaceutical and medical device products are sometimes more stringent than those that were applied in the past. For example, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration is currently evaluating the 510(k) process for clearing medical devices and may make substantial changes to industry requirements, including which devices are eligible for 510(k) clearance, the ability to rescind previously granted 510(k) clearances and additional requirements that may significantly impact the process. Further, some new or evolving review standards or conditions for approval or clearance were not applied to many established products currently on the market, including certain opioid products. As a result, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration does not have as extensive safety databases on these products as on some products developed more recently. Accordingly, we believe the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has recently expressed an intention to develop such databases for certain of these products, including many opioids. In addition, on September 27, 2007, through passage of the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, Congress passed legislation authorizing the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to require companies to undertake additional post-approval studies in order to assess known or signaled potential serious safety risks and to make any labeling changes necessary to address safety risks. Congress also empowered the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to require companies to formulate risk evaluation and mitigation strategies to ensure a drug’s benefits outweigh its risks. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration regulates the facilities, processes and procedures used to manufacture and market pharmaceutical and medical products in the U.S. Manufacturing facilities must be registered with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and all products made in such facilities must be manufactured in accordance with “current good manufacturing practices,” or cGMP, regulations enforced by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Compliance with cGMP regulations requires the dedication of substantial resources and requires significant expenditures. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration periodically inspects both our third party and owned manufacturing facilities and procedures to assure compliance. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration may cause a suspension or withdrawal of product approvals if regulatory standards are not maintained. In the event an approved manufacturing facility for a particular drug or medical device is required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to curtail or cease operations, or otherwise becomes inoperable, or a third party contract manufacturing facility faces manufacturing problems, obtaining the required U.S. Food and Drug Administration authorization to manufacture at the same or a different manufacturing site could result in production delays, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. We cannot determine what effect changes in regulations or legal interpretations by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or the courts, when and if promulgated or issued, may have on our business in the future. Changes could, among other things, require different labeling, monitoring of patients, interaction with physicians, education programs for patients or physicians, curtailment of necessary supplies, or limitations on product distribution. These changes, or others required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration could have an adverse effect on the sales of these products. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has authority to require a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy under the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 when necessary to address whether the benefits of these products continue to outweigh the risks. In addition, on September 27, 2007, Congress re-authorized requirements for testing drug products in children, which may increase the time and cost necessary for new drug development. The evolving and complex nature of regulatory science and regulatory requirements, the broad authority and discretion of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the generally high level of regulatory oversight results in a continuing possibility that from time to time, we will be adversely affected by regulatory actions despite ongoing efforts and commitment to achieve and maintain full compliance with all regulatory requirements. If we fail to comply with continuing federal and state regulations, our business could be seriously harmed. Following initial regulatory approval of any products that we may develop, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after our products become commercially available. This would include results from any post-marketing tests or continued actions required by a condition of approval. The manufacturing facilities we may use to make any of our products may become subject to periodic review and inspection by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. If a previously unknown problem or problems with a product or a manufacturing and laboratory facility used by us is discovered, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration may impose restrictions on that product or on the manufacturing facility, including requiring us to withdraw the product from the market. Any changes to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often requires U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval before the product, as modified, can be marketed. In addition, for products we develop in the future, we and our contract manufacturers may be subject to ongoing U.S. Food and Drug Administration requirements for submission of safety and other post-market information. If we or any of our contract manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS ● issue warning letters; ● impose civil or criminal penalties; ● suspend or withdraw our regulatory approval; ● suspend or terminate any of our ongoing clinical trials; ● refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; ● impose restrictions on our operations; ● close the facilities of our contract manufacturers; and/or ● seize or detain products or require a product recall. Additionally, regulatory review covers a company’s activities in the promotion of its drugs, with significant potential penalties and restrictions for promotion of drugs for an unapproved use. Sales and marketing programs, such as illegal promotions to health care professionals, are under scrutiny for compliance with various mandated requirements. We are also required to submit information on open and completed clinical trials to public registries and databases. Failure to comply with these requirements could expose us to negative publicity, fines and penalties that could harm our business. If we violate regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, we may be fined, be forced to remove a product from the market or experience other adverse consequences, including delay, which would materially harm our financial results. Additionally, we may not be able to obtain the labeling claims necessary or desirable for product promotion. We are dependent on proprietary know-how. Our competitors may develop or market technologies that are more effective or more commercially attractive than ours. Our manufacturing know-how as to mixing, coating and cross-linking may be able to be duplicated, even if it is difficult to do so. There is no assurance that, should we apply for intellectual property protection for our intellectual property, we would be able to obtain such protection. We also rely on trade secret protection to protect our interests in proprietary know-how and for processes for which patents are difficult to obtain or enforce. We may not be able to protect our trade secrets adequately. In addition, we rely on non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary technology. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Moreover, others may independently develop equivalent proprietary information, and third parties may otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. Any disclosure of confidential data into the public domain or to third parties could allow competitors to learn our trade secrets and use the information in competition against us. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, there is no assurance that such protections will preclude our competitors from developing and/or marketing similar products. While we are not aware of any third party intellectual property that would materially affect our business, our failure or inability to obtain patents and protect our proprietary information could result in our business being adversely affected. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS We have no experience in sales, marketing and distribution and may have to enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, which could prevent us from successfully commercializing our product candidates. We currently have limited sales and marketing capabilities and no distribution capabilities. To commercialize our product candidates, we must either develop our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, which will be expensive and time consuming, or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services for us. If we enter into third party arrangements, the third parties may not be capable of successfully selling any of our products. If we decide to market any of our products on our own, we will have to commit significant resources to developing a marketing and sales force and supporting distribution capabilities. If we decide to enter into arrangements with third parties for performance of these services, we may find that they are not available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are not able to establish and maintain successful arrangements with third parties or build our own sales and marketing infrastructure, we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming, costly to defend and could result in our loss of significant rights and, in the case of patent infringement claims, the assessment of treble damages. On occasion, we may receive notices of claims of our infringement, misappropriation or misuse of other parties’ proprietary rights. We may have disputes regarding intellectual property rights with the parties that have licensed those rights to us. We may also initiate claims to defend our intellectual property. Intellectual property litigation, regardless of its outcome, is expensive and time-consuming, could divert management’s attention from our business and have a material negative effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, the outcome of such litigation may be unpredictable. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages—including treble damages if we were to be found to have willfully infringed a third party’s patent—to the party claiming infringement, and to develop non-infringing technology, stop selling our products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable or commercially practical terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis could harm our business. In addition, modifying our products to exclude infringing technologies could require us to seek re-approval or clearance from various regulatory bodies for our products, which would be costly and time consuming. Also, we may be unaware of pending patent applications that relate to our technology. Parties making infringement claims on future issued patents may be able to obtain an injunction that would prevent us from selling our products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property, which could harm our business. We may have challenges in managing our outside contractors for product and regulatory accomplishments. We rely heavily upon and have relationships with outside contractors and consultants with expertise in drug development, regulatory strategy, manufacturing and other matters. These parties are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. We have limited control over the activities of consultants and outside contractors and, except as otherwise required by our collaboration and consulting agreements, can expect only limited amounts of their time to be dedicated to our activities. If any third party with whom we have or enter into a relationship is unable or refuses to contribute to projects on which we need their help, our ability to generate advances in our technologies and develop our product candidates could be significantly harmed. Our products risk exposure to product liability claims We are and, if successful in developing, testing and commercializing our products, will increasingly be, exposed to potential product liability risks, which are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of such products. It is likely we will be contractually obligated, under any distribution agreements that we enter into, to indemnify the individuals and/or entities that distribute our products against claims relating to the manufacture and sale of products distributed by such distribution partners. This indemnification liability, as well as direct liability to consumers for any defects in the products sold, could expose us to substantial risks and losses. While we have obtained $5,000,000 of product liability insurance, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. As we begin to sell and distribute our new line of proprietary products, we intend to increase the limits of our product liability insurance. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could result in judgments, fines, damages and liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur significant expense investigating and defending these claims, even if they do not result in liability. Moreover, even if no judgments, fines, damages or liabilities are imposed on us, our reputation could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS We and our sales personnel, whether employed by us or by others, must comply with various federal and state anti-kickback, self referral, false claims and similar laws, any breach of which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our relationships with physicians, hospitals and the marketers of our products are subject to scrutiny under various federal anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and similar laws, often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse laws are complex, and even minor, inadvertent violations can give rise to claims that the relevant law has been violated. Possible sanctions for violation of these fraud and abuse laws include monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration health programs, workers’ compensation programs and TRICARE, the healthcare system administered by or on behalf of the U.S. Department of Defense for uniformed services beneficiaries, including active duty and their dependents, retirees and their dependents, and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such prohibitions. Certain states have similar fraud and abuse laws, imposing substantial penalties for violations. Any government investigation or a finding of a violation of these laws would likely result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. Anti-kickback laws and regulations prohibit any knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for the referral of an individual or the ordering or recommending of the use of a product or service for which payment may be made by Medicare, Medicaid or other government-sponsored healthcare programs. We may engage additional physicians on a consulting basis. While these agreements with physicians will be structured with the intention of complying with all applicable laws, including the federal ban on physician self referrals, commonly known as the “Stark Law,” state anti-referral laws and other applicable anti-kickback laws, it is possible that regulatory or enforcement agencies or courts may in the future view these agreements as prohibited arrangements that must be restructured or for which we would be subject to other significant civil or criminal penalties, or prohibit us from accepting referrals from these physicians. Because our strategy includes the involvement of physicians who consult with us on the design of our products, we could be materially impacted if regulatory or enforcement agencies or courts interpret our financial relationships with our physician advisors who refer or order our products to be in violation of applicable laws and determine that we would be unable to achieve compliance with such applicable laws. This could harm our reputation and the reputations of our physician advisors. In addition, the cost of noncompliance with these laws could be substantial since we could be subject to monetary fines and civil or criminal penalties, and we could also be excluded from federally funded healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, for non-compliance. The scope and enforcement of all of these laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change, especially in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations. There can be no assurance that federal or state regulatory or enforcement authorities will not investigate or challenge our current or future activities under these laws. Any investigation or challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any state or federal regulatory or enforcement review of us, regardless of the outcome, would be costly and time consuming. Additionally, we cannot predict the impact of any changes in these laws, whether these changes are retroactive or will have effect on a going-forward basis only. We are uncertain regarding the success of our clinical trials for our products in development. Some of our products in development may require clinical trials to determine their safety and efficacy for U.S. marketing approval by regulatory bodies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete the U.S. regulatory approval process for products in development. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter additional problems that will cause us to delay, suspend or terminate our clinical trials. In addition, we cannot make any assurance that clinical trials will be deemed sufficient in size and scope to satisfy regulatory approval requirements, or, if completed, will ultimately demonstrate these products to be safe and efficacious. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS Healthcare policy changes, including recent laws to reform the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on us. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been, and continue to be, proposals by legislators, regulators, and third-party payors to keep these costs down. Certain proposals, if passed, would impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our products, or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products from governmental agencies or third-party payors. These limitations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Various healthcare reform proposals have emerged at the federal and state levels. We cannot predict the exact effect newly enacted laws or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. However, the implementation of new legislation and regulation may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business, possibly materially. In addition, the enacted excise tax may materially and adversely affect our operating expenses and results of operations. Modifications to our current products may require new marketing clearances or approvals or require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until such clearances or approvals are obtained. Any modification to a U.S. Food and Drug Administration-cleared product that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change or modification in its intended use, requires a new U.S. Food and Drug Administration 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a premarket approval. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration requires every manufacturer to make its own determination as to whether a modification requires a new 510(k) clearance or premarket approval, but the U.S. Food and Drug Administration may review and disagree with any decision reached by the manufacturer. In the future, we may make additional modifications to our products after they have received U.S. Food and Drug Administration clearance or approval and, in appropriate circumstances, determine that new clearance or approval is unnecessary. Regulations in other countries in which we market or sell, or propose to market or sell, our products may also require that we make judgments about changes to our products and whether or not those changes are such that regulatory approval or clearance should be obtained. In the U.S. and elsewhere, regulatory authorities may disagree with our past or future decisions not to seek new clearance or approval and may require us to obtain clearance or approval for modifications to our products. If that were to occur for a previously cleared or approved product, we may be required to cease marketing or recall the modified device until we obtain the necessary clearance or approval. Under these circumstances, we may also be subject to significant regulatory fines or other penalties. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Changes in reimbursement levels by governmental or other third-party payors for procedures using our products may cause our revenues to decline. We believe that our products will be purchased principally by hospitals or physicians, which typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of our future customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payors is critical to the success of medical product companies because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the U.S. may limit, reduce or eliminate reimbursement for our products and adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and the demand for our products. Even when we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third party payors. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS Third-party payors have adopted, and are continuing to adopt, a number of healthcare policies intended to curb rising healthcare costs. These policies include: ● controls on government-funded reimbursement for healthcare services and price controls on medical products and services providers; ● challenges to the pricing of medical procedures or limits or prohibitions on reimbursement for specific devices and therapies through other means; and ● the introduction of managed care systems in which healthcare providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person. We are unable to predict whether federal, state or local healthcare reform legislation or regulation affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future, or what effect any such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Changes in healthcare systems in the U.S. in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our products or denies coverage for these procedures, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement issues, would have an adverse impact on the acceptance of our products and the prices which our customers are willing to pay for them. We are reliant upon two manufacturers for key ingredients of the manufacture of our hydrogels. The Dow Chemical Company and the BASF Corporation are the principal manufacturers of the two polymers, polyethylene oxide and polyvinylpyrrolidone, respectively, that we primarily use in the manufacture of hydrogels. Although we have not experienced significant production delays attributable to supply changes, we believe that developing an alternative sources of supply for the polymers used to make our current hydrogels would be difficult over a short period of time. Because we have no direct control over our third-party suppliers, interruptions or delays in the products and services provided by these third parties may be difficult to remedy in a timely fashion. In addition, if such suppliers are unable or unwilling to deliver the necessary raw materials or products, we may be unable to redesign or adapt our technology to work without such raw materials or products or find alternative suppliers or manufacturers. In such events, we could experience interruptions, delays, increased costs or quality control problems, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to the Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: ● technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors; ● additions or departures of key personnel; ● sales of our common stock, particularly under any registration statement for the purposes of selling any other securities, including management shares; ● negative sentiment from investors, customers, vendors and strategic partners due to doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern; ● our ability to execute our business plan; ● operating results that fall below expectations; ● loss of any strategic relationship; ● industry developments; ● economic and other external factors; and ● period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also significantly affect the market price of our common stock. We are subject to penny stock rules which will make the shares of our common stock more difficult to sell. We are subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s “penny stock” rules since our shares of common stock sell below $5.00 per share. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a per share price of less than $5.00. The penny stock rules require broker-dealers to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must also provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to completing the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. The penny stock rules are burdensome and may reduce purchases of any offerings and reduce the trading activity for shares of our common stock. As long as our shares of common stock are subject to the penny stock rules, the holders of such shares of common stock may find it more difficult to sell their securities. There is, at present, only a limited market for our common stock and we cannot ensure investors that an active market for our common stock will ever develop or be sustained. Our shares of common stock are thinly traded. Due to the illiquidity, the market price may not accurately reflect our relative value. There can be no assurance that there will be an active market for our shares of common stock either now or in the future. Because our common stock is so thinly traded, a large block of shares traded can lead to a dramatic fluctuation in the share price and investors may not be able to liquidate their investment in us at all or at a price that reflects the value of the business. In addition, our common stock currently trades on the OTC Bulletin Board, which generally lacks the liquidity, research coverage and institutional investor following of a national securities exchange like the NYSE MKT, the New York Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq Stock Market. While we intend to list our common stock on a national securities exchange once we satisfy the initial listing standards for such an exchange, we currently do not, and may not ever, satisfy such initial listing standards. Our board of directors can authorize the issuance of preferred stock, which could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and make a change of control of us more difficult even if it might benefit our shareholders. Our board of directors is authorized to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the voting powers, preferences and other rights and limitations of the preferred stock. Accordingly, we may issue shares of preferred stock with a preference over our common stock with respect to dividends or distributions on liquidation or dissolution, or that may otherwise adversely affect the voting or other rights of the holders of common stock. Issuances of preferred stock, depending upon the rights, preferences and designations of the preferred stock, may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control, even if that change of control might benefit our shareholders. Offers or availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. As additional shares of our common stock become available for resale in the public market, the supply of our common stock will increase, which could decrease the price of our common stock. 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS In addition, if our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, upon the expiration of any statutory holding period under Rule 144, upon the expiration of lock-up periods applicable to outstanding shares, or upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants, it could create a circumstance commonly referred to as an “overhang,” in anticipation of which the market price of our common stock could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. We do not expect to pay dividends in the future. As a result, any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on an investment in our common stock will only occur if our stock price appreciates. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements,” which include information relating to future events, future financial performance, strategies, expectations, competitive environment and regulation. Words such as “may,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “predicts,” “potential,” “continue,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “future,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” and similar expressions, as well as statements in future tense, identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results and will probably not be accurate indications of when such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking statements are based on information we have when those statements are made or our management’s good faith belief as of that time with respect to future events, and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in or suggested by the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause such differences include, but are not limited to: ● the uncertainty regarding the adequacy of our liquidity to pursue our complete business objectives; ● inadequate capital; ● loss or retirement of key executives; ● the uncertainty of our ability to continue as a going concern; ● impairment of goodwill and intangibles; ● adverse economic conditions and/or intense competition; ● loss of a key customer or supplier; ● entry of new competitors and products; ● adverse federal, state and local government regulation; ● technological obsolescence of our products; ● technical problems with our research and products; ● price increases for supplies and components; and ● inability to carry out research, development and commercialization plans. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS You should review carefully the risks and uncertainties described under the heading “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of these and other risks that relate to our business and investing in shares of our common stock. The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which any such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 