Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial position and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Before you buy our common stock or other securities, you should know that making such an investment involves risks, including the risks described below. The risks that have been highlighted below are not the only risks of our business. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock or other securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Certain risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements include the following: Risks Related to Our Business We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the life science sector, primarily from biotechnology companies. Adverse developments or a decline in investor interest in this sector could harm our business. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, 70.0%, 60.4% and 82.4% respectively, of our revenues were derived from the life science sector. Although we expect this percentage to decrease as our business grows and we execute our growth strategy, we anticipate that the life science sector (primarily biotechnology companies) will continue to account for the largest portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. The life science sector is known for its volatility due to a number of factors including the following: 9 • many companies in this sector rely on a single product or class of products; • the sector is highly regulated; • a company’s success and viability depends on the results of clinical trials, which are unpredictable; • technological developments; • disposition of patent applications; • international respect of patents; • product recalls; • general economic conditions and political developments; • global competition; and • availability of insurance coverage. Unless we expand into new segments of the economy, our revenue and net profits will continue to be subject to the volatility of the life science sector, which could have a detrimental impact on the price of our securities. We expect our growth rates to decline and anticipate downward pressure on our operating margins in the future. In 2007 and 2006 our total revenues were $71.4 million and $61.3 million, respectively, an increase of 16.5%. Similarly, in 2007 and 2006 our net income was $4.8 million and $16.5 million, respectively. As our business grows and matures, it is unlikely that our growth rate can be sustained at those levels, if at all. We expect that in the future our revenue growth rate will decline and anticipate that there will also be downward pressure on our operating margins. We believe this decline and downward pressure could be the inevitable result of a number of factors, including the following: • expenses increasing at a greater rate than revenues; • increasing competition in those segments of the market in which we compete; • additional costs related to being a public reporting company; • our inability to execute our growth strategy; and • our lack of liquidity and access to capital. If we are unable to manage our future growth successfully, we may not be able to sustain profitability. Continued growth may place significant demands on our operational, administrative and financial resources. Our rapid growth has caused, and if it continues, will continue to cause, significant demands on our operational, administrative and financial infrastructure and increase our expenses. If we do not effectively manage our growth, the quality of our services could suffer, which would adversely affect our operating results and our reputation. To effectively manage future growth, we will have to hire, train and manage a larger work force and improve our financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. These systems enhancements and improvements will require significant capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. If the improvements are not implemented successfully, our ability to manage our growth will be impaired and we may incur significant additional expenditures to address these issues, further impairing our financial condition and profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage our growth effectively and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and control expenses. 10 We depend on the services of Mr. Vasinkevich, Mr. Borer, Mr. Chambers and Mr. Rubin, and the loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on us. We depend on the efforts and reputations of Michael Vasinkevich, our Vice Chairman, John J. Borer III and John W. Chambers, Co-Heads of Investment Banking, and Edward Rubin, our President. Their reputations and relationships with clients and potential clients are critical elements in expanding our businesses, and we believe our historical and future performance is strongly correlated to their involvement to date and their continued involvement in our operations. We entered into employment agreements with each of Messrs. Vasinkevich, Rubin and Borer, which initially expire on February 28, 2010. Each employment agreement then renews automatically for an unlimited number of one-year periods until either party gives a 90-day non-renewal notice. If the executive’s employment terminates for any reason, he is subject to a covenant that prohibits him from competing with us for a period of one year from the date of termination. We cannot assure you that one or more of Messrs. Vasinkevich, Borer and Rubin will not resign, join a competitor or form a competing company or that the non-competition provisions in their employment agreements are enforceable. The loss or reduction of the services of any of Messrs. Vasinkevich, Borer, Rubin or Chambers, due to death, disability, termination of employment or regulatory restriction, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our client base and the number of products we offer are limited. Our rate of growth will be impaired unless we expand our client base and increase our investment banking revenues. We derive most of our revenues from investment banking engagements, including placement agent and underwriting fees and strategic advisory fees, which have the highest profit margins of any of our operating units. For the years 2007, 2006 and 2005, investment banking transactions accounted for 80.3%, 70.3% and 61.1%, respectively, of our total revenues. In addition, most of our investment banking revenue derives from publicly-traded companies in the life science sector. From January 1, 2003 through December 31, 2007, we acted as sole or lead manager in connection with 143 financing transactions, of which 106 were or are on behalf of companies in the life science sector. Most of our investment banking clients are public companies and many of them have little or no revenue. From January 1, 2003 through December 31, 2007, our corporate finance transactions ranged from $1.3 million to $163.0 million. Although our growth strategy contemplates that we will develop new sources of revenue and expand our sales and trading, strategic advisory, asset management and merchant banking capabilities, our future growth still largely depends on our ability to generate significant placement agent and underwriting fees. To do so, we must: (i) expand into new sectors; (ii) increase the volume of corporate finance transactions in which we act as sole or lead manager; and (iii) actively solicit engagements for larger transactions. Significant factors affecting this strategy include our relatively small size, our lack of familiarity with, and visibility in, sectors other than life science and competition from larger investment banks. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively for new investment banking engagements. If we are unable to increase our investment banking revenue, our rate of growth will be adversely affected, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our future success depends on our ability to expand our investment banking services into sectors of the economy other than life science. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, revenues from non-life science companies were 30.0%, 39.6% and 17.6%, respectively, of our total revenues. Since we do not have any particular expertise in sectors other than life science, we rely, in part, on our relationships with institutional investors and private equity funds to introduce us to companies that need capital and on our own ability to identify opportunities to which we can apply our corporate finance know-how. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to receive referrals from institutional investor sources. We may hire teams of investment bankers and other professionals with expertise in a particular sector, which would, in the short-term, increase our operating costs. If these costs are not offset with increases in revenues, our profitability will be adversely affected, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. 11 PIPE transactions have been subject to intense regulatory scrutiny over the last few years. To the extent the investor interest is reduced as a result, our business will be adversely affected. A significant factor in our growth to date has been our leading position as placement agent in PIPE transactions. These transactions usually can be accomplished in less time and at less cost than registered public offerings. Various regulatory and governmental agencies, including the SEC, have been reviewing PIPE transactions. Periodically, we receive requests for information from the SEC and other regulatory and governmental agencies regarding PIPEs in general or regarding specific transactions. In most cases, these communications include a request for copies of transaction documents. We always comply with these requests. If the SEC or any other regulatory agency promulgates regulations that make it more difficult or expensive to consummate PIPE transactions, investors and issuers may prefer other financing strategies, such as registered public offerings. Since underwriting registered public offerings has never been a significant source of revenue for us, any decline in the number of PIPE transactions could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations and financial condition, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our revenue and profits are highly volatile, which may make it difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis and may cause the price of our common stock to decline. In addition, the investment banking sector can be highly volatile, which could adversely impact our revenues and profits. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, significant variations from period-to-period in our revenues and results of operations. These variations may be attributed in part to the fact that our investment banking revenues, which represent the largest portion of our revenues, are typically earned when the financing or merger or acquisition transaction is consummated, the timing of which is uncertain and largely beyond our control. In most cases, we receive little or no payment for investment banking engagements that do not result in a successfully completed transaction. As a result, our business depends a great deal on market conditions as well as the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties. For example, a client could delay or terminate financing transactions because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or stockholder approvals, adverse market conditions or because its business is experiencing unexpected operating or financial problems. In addition, many companies seeking a financing simultaneously explore a merger or sale option. Our investment banking revenues would be adversely affected if companies for which we are acting as placement agent or underwriter were sold and we were not also engaged as a strategic advisor. If a transaction fails to close, we will earn little or no revenue despite the fact that we may have devoted considerable resources to, and incurred significant out-of-pocket expenses in connection with, the transaction. This risk may be intensified by our focus on companies in the biotechnology sector, which is extremely volatile. As a result, our financial results will likely fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the timing when fees are earned, which could, in turn, lead to increased volatility in the price of our common stock. Market conditions and valuations for companies in the life science sector, as well as general market conditions, can materially affect our financial performance. The nature of our revenue generation, including the size of transactions, the timing of transaction closings and the sectors in which those transactions occur, make our future performance difficult to predict and potentially highly variable. Revenues for many of the services we provide are earned only upon the successful completion of a transaction. Accordingly, revenues and net income in any period may not be indicative of full-year results or the results of any other period and may vary significantly from year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter depending on whether and when transactions are completed and the number, size and type of transactions completed. In particular, recent volatility in the capital markets may lead to disruptions that delay or eliminate revenue opportunities. Our corporate finance and strategic advisory engagements are singular in nature and do not generally provide for subsequent engagements. Our investment banking engagements, whether for a financing, a merger or an acquisition transaction, are usually transaction specific as opposed to long-term engagements. As such, we must continually seek new engagements even from companies that have engaged us in the past. For this reason, we believe it is important to nurture strong relationships with our clients. Although we have been successful in securing repeat engagements from clients in the past, our ability to do so on a regular basis is by no means assured. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high levels of activity in any subsequent period. If we 12 are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements that generate fees from new or existing clients, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may invest our own principal capital in equities that have limited liquidity and that expose us to a significant risk of capital loss. We use a portion of our own capital in a variety of principal investment activities, including purchasing “shell” companies to be used in connection with future financing transactions and purchasing securities offered in financing transactions for which we are acting as placement agent. We also hold a portfolio of equity securities, including stock and warrants that we received as part of our compensation in connection with acting as a placement agent. Principal investing involves numerous risks, including illiquidity, loss of invested capital and revaluation. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to expand our merchant banking operating unit, which may involve purchasing securities in venture capital and other high-risk financings of early-stage, pre-public, mezzanine or turn-around companies. These securities are likely to be restricted as to resale and may, in any event, be highly illiquid. For example, in the case of investments in marketable securities, principal investments could be significant relative to the overall capitalization of the company in which we invest. Resale of a significant amount of these securities might adversely affect their market and/or sales price. Moreover, the companies in which we invest may rely on new or developing technologies or novel business models or concentrate on markets which have not yet developed and which may never develop sufficiently to support successful operations. Even if we make an appropriate investment decision based on the intrinsic value of an enterprise, we cannot assure you that general market conditions will not cause the market value of our investments to decline. For example, an increase in interest rates, currency fluctuations, a general decline in the stock markets, or other market conditions adverse to companies of the type in which we may invest could result in a decline in the value of our investments or a total loss of our investment. This could materially and adversely impact our financial results and the price of our common stock. We may also commit our own capital to facilitate client sales and trading activities. The number and size of these transactions may adversely affect our results of operations. To the extent that we have long positions in any of those markets, a downturn in the value of those assets or in those markets could result in losses. Conversely, to the extent that we have short positions in any of those markets an upturn in those markets could expose us to potentially large losses as we attempt to cover our short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. These long and short positions and the movement of the market relative to these positions could further contribute to the fluctuations in our revenues and earnings, which, in turn, could contribute to volatility in the price of our common stock. We face strong competition from other investment banks that serve the biotechnology sector and that specialize in PIPE and RD financing transactions. If we fail to address the challenges posed by this competition, we could lose our leading position in these areas, causing our operating results to suffer. The investment banking industry is intensely competitive, and we expect it to remain so for the foreseeable future. This is true in the case of the biotechnology sector as well as in connection with PIPE and RD financing transactions, in which we specialize. We consider our principal competitors to be Banc of America Securities, LLC, C. E. Unterberg, Towbin, Canaccord Adams, Inc., CIBC World Markets, Cowen and Company, LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc., Jefferies & Company, Inc., JMP Securities, Ladenburg Thalmann & Co., Lazard Ltd., Leerink Swann & Co., Lehman Brothers, Inc., Merriman Curhan Ford & Company, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc., Piper Jaffray & Co., RBC Capital Markets, Inc., Roth Capital Partners, LLC, ThinkEquity Partners, LLC and Thomas Weisel Partners, LLC. In addition, as we expand our business into new sectors and new business lines, we will face competition from other firms. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the scope and quality of services, price, market focus and industry knowledge, client relationships and reputation. Larger firms provide a broader range of investment banking services to their clients than we do. We have experienced intense price competition in our various businesses. Pricing and other competitive pressures in investment banking, including the trends toward multiple book runners, co- managers and multiple financial advisors handling transactions, could adversely affect our revenues, even as the size and number of our investment banking transactions may increase. If we do not address these competitive factors successfully, we may not be able to execute our growth strategy or even maintain our existing market share. In either case, our operating results could suffer as could the price of our common stock. 13 As we grow, we will likely face competition from much larger investment banking firms. In order to compete with them, we may have to increase our operating expenses significantly and/or make larger commitments of capital in our trading and underwriting business. This increases the potential for capital loss, which could adversely impact our operating results. We are a relatively small investment bank. Primarily because of the types of transactions in which we specialize and the relatively small size of those transactions, except in rare circumstances, we have avoided competing with larger investment banks. However, we expect this to change as we pursue investment banking opportunities with larger companies and engagements for larger transactions. Larger investment banks not only offer a broader range of products and services than we do, they also have significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do, greater name recognition, more senior professionals to serve their clients’ needs, greater global reach and may have more established relationships with clients than we have. Thus, they are better able to respond to changes in the investment banking industry, compete for skilled professionals, finance acquisitions, fund internal growth and compete for market share. For example, many of our larger competitors have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services, which has resulted, and could further result, in pricing pressure in our businesses. In addition, financial services firms have begun to make larger and more frequent commitments of capital in many of their activities. In order to win business, they are increasingly committing to purchase large blocks of stock from publicly traded issuers or significant stockholders, instead of the more traditional marketed underwriting process in which marketing is typically completed before an investment bank commits to purchase securities for resale. They are willing to provide debt financing out of internal funds, often giving them a significant competitive advantage. Because we do not have the resources to match these investment banking firms, we may be unable to compete as effectively for larger clients and larger transactions. In that case, we may not be able to execute that part of our growth strategy, which could have an adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. Our ability to retain our senior professionals and recruit additional professionals is critical to our growth strategy and our failure to do so may adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Our people are our most valuable resource. Our future success depends to a substantial degree on our ability to retain and recruit qualified personnel, particularly senior managing directors. We anticipate that it will be necessary for us to add financial professionals as we pursue our growth strategy. However, we may not be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel as the market for qualified financial professionals is extremely competitive. We cannot assure you that our compensation arrangements and non-competition and non-solicitation agreements with our key employees are broad or effective enough to deter or prevent employees from resigning, joining or forming competitors or soliciting our clients. Further, we cannot assure you that we could successfully enforce our rights under those agreements. Our ability to obtain and successfully execute the transactions that generate a significant portion of our revenues depends upon the reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and project execution skills of our senior professionals from investment banking, sales and trading and research. The reputations and relationships of our senior professionals with our clients are a critical element in obtaining and executing client engagements. Accordingly, retaining these particular employees is critical to our future success and growth. Turnover in the investment banking industry is high and we encounter intense competition for qualified employees from other companies in the investment banking industry as well as from businesses outside the investment banking industry, such as hedge funds and private equity funds. We have experienced departures of investment banking and other professionals in the past and losses of key employees may occur in the future. As a result of such departures, we may not be able to retain valuable relationships and some of our clients could choose to use the services of a competitor instead of our services. If we are unable to retain our senior professionals and/or recruit additional professionals, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 14 Our transition to a corporate structure may adversely affect our ability to recruit, retain and motivate our senior managing directors and other key employees, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively and to grow our business. In connection with our transition to a corporate structure, our senior executives and managing directors may experience significant reductions in their cash compensation or even their overall compensation. We intend to use equity, equity-based incentives and other employee benefits rather than pure cash compensation to motivate and retain our key employees, including our senior executives and managing directors. Our compensation mechanisms as a public company may not be effective, especially if the market price of our common stock declines. In addition, beginning with the current fiscal year, we have agreed to target our total compensation and benefits expense, excluding insurance premiums paid in respect of “key-man” life insurance policies for our benefit and equity-based compensation attributable to awards granted prior to September 30, 2007, to approximately 55% of revenues each year. Although we may increase this percentage for years subsequent to 2008, this agreement could adversely impact the overall compensation our key employees, including our senior executive officers and managing directors, may receive. Our senior executives and managing directors may receive less compensation under this formula than they otherwise would have received before it was adopted and may receive less compensation than they otherwise would receive at other firms. Such a reduction in compensation (or the belief that a reduction may occur) could make it more difficult to retain our key employees, including our senior executives and managing directors. In addition, current or potential managing directors and other employees may be more attracted to the benefits of working at a private partnership and the prospects of becoming a partner at such a firm, or at one of our larger competitors. Limitations on our access to capital could impair our ability to expand our underwriting businesses. Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to financial services firms, including ours. The Broker-Dealer is subject to the net capital requirements of the SEC, FINRA and various self-regulatory organizations of which it is a member. These requirements typically specify the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also mandate that a significant part of its assets be kept in relatively liquid form. Any failure to comply with these net capital requirements could impair our ability to expand our underwriting business. Furthermore, there are laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the Broker-Dealer’s ability to distribute funds to us. As a result, regulatory actions could impede our access to funds that we need to make payments on obligations or dividend payments. In addition, because we hold equity interests in our subsidiaries, our rights as an equity holder to the assets of these subsidiaries may not materialize, if at all, until the claims of the creditors of these subsidiaries are satisfied. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks. Our risk management strategies and techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure, breach of contract or other reasons. We are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances, and, as a result, default risks may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect, foresee or reasonably guard against. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. If any of the variety of processes and strategies we utilize to manage our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. Our operations and infrastructure and those of the service providers upon which we rely may malfunction or fail. We outsource our technology infrastructure, including data centers, disaster recovery systems, and wide area networks, as well as some trading applications. We depend on our technology providers to manage and monitor those functions. A disruption of any of the outsourced services would be out of our control and could negatively impact our business. We have experienced disruptions on occasion, none of which has been material to our operations or results. However, we cannot guarantee that future disruptions with these providers will not occur or that their impact would not be material. 15 We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of relations with any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. Any such failure or termination could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions and to manage our exposure to risk. In addition, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure, including electrical, communications, transportation and other services, that support our businesses and the area in which we are located. This may affect, among other things, our financial, accounting or other data processing systems. Nearly all of our employees work in close proximity to each other. Although we have a formal disaster recovery plan in place, if a disruption occurs and our employees are unable to communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. Our operations also rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have an adverse impact on their integrity and/or viability. If one or more of such events occur, this could jeopardize our or our clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients’, our counterparties’ or third parties’ operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to make required notifications, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured or not fully covered through any insurance that we maintain. Strategic investments or acquisitions and joint ventures, or our entry into new business areas, may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. Our growth strategy contemplates strategic investments, acquisitions and joint ventures, which involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including the following: • problems with the effective integration of operations and systems; • the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships and integrate new relationships; • increased operating costs; • conflicts or disagreements among principals; • risk of misconduct by employees not subject to our control; • difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and • exposure to new or unknown liabilities. Any future growth of our business, such as the further expansion of our principal investment activities, may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. In addition, expansions, acquisitions or joint ventures may require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. These capital, equity and managerial commitments may impair the operation of our businesses. In addition, future acquisitions or joint ventures may involve the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, which may dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders. The demands of running a public company could result in additional costs and require our senior management to devote more time to regulatory and other requirements. As a public reporting company, we expect to incur an additional $1.0 million to $2.0 million in operating costs annually. These additional costs include the cost to comply with the significant regulatory and reporting requirements under the Exchange Act and other Federal and state securities laws, listing and corporate governance requirements of the exchange on which our common stock is listed and the compliance obligations of S-Ox. In 16 addition, we intend to hire additional financial reporting, internal control and compliance staff in order to sustain appropriate internal controls and reporting procedures. Our historical consolidated financial information does not reflect the added costs that we expect to incur as a public company or the resulting changes that will have occurred in our capital structure and operations. Under Section 404 of S-Ox, we are required to annually furnish a report assessing our internal controls over financial reporting. An inability to complete and document this assessment in subsequent years could cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy or completeness of our financial reports, which could adversely impact the price of our stock. Additionally, ineffective internal controls over financial reporting could expose us to increased risk of fraud or misuse of corporate assets and subject us to delisting by any exchange on which our securities are listed. In addition, our senior managers do not have experience as officers of a publicly-traded company. Since inception, our senior management has been actively involved in the revenue generating activities of our operations. As the senior executives of a public reporting company, they will now be required to devote more of their time to compliance issues and to develop and implement the internal controls and reporting procedures required by S-Ox, which means they will have less time to devote to business and operational matters and to developing new business. If our senior management is required to devote more time to the additional requirements of managing a public company, and we are unable to successfully transition some or all of the revenue generating responsibilities of our senior management to other suitable professionals, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. Also, if we are unable to comply with S-Ox’s internal controls requirements, we may not be able to obtain the independent accountant certifications that S-Ox requires publicly-traded companies to obtain. Evaluating our prospects in light of our limited operating history and fluctuations in our operating results is difficult. We have a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. Also, because our business is relatively young and is still evolving, our historical operating results may not be useful in predicting our future operating results. As a relatively young enterprise, we face numerous risks and uncertainties, including those relating to our ability to attract and retain clients on a cost-effective basis, expand and enhance our service and product offerings, raise additional capital and respond to competitive market conditions. We may not be able to address these risks adequately, and our failure to do so may harm our business and the value of your investment in our common stock. In addition, our operating results may fluctuate because of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. For this reason, comparing our results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of future performance. Our quarterly and annual expenses as a percentage of revenues may be significantly different from our historical or projected rates. Our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. Any of these results could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our short operating history and rapid growth do not accurately reflect the cyclical nature of the investment banking business. As our growth slows, we expect this cyclicality may become more apparent and may lead to further fluctuations in our performance and in the price of our common stock. Our historical financial information may not permit you to predict our costs of operations. Our historical consolidated financial information does not reflect the added costs that we expect to incur as a public company or the resulting changes that have occurred in our capital structure and operations as a result of the Exchange. For example, because we historically operated through partnerships and limited liability companies, our profits were only taxed at the owner level. Thus, our historical financial information may not be indicative of our actual experience as a public corporation. We may be required to make substantial payments under certain indemnification agreements. In connection with our conversion to corporate form, we entered into agreements that provide for the indemnification of our former members against certain tax liabilities relating to periods before the Exchange Date. We may be required to make substantial payments under these indemnification agreements, which could adversely affect our financial condition. 17 Risks Related to Our Industry Difficult market conditions can adversely affect our business in many ways, which could materially reduce our revenue or income. Our business is materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world. The future market and economic climate may deteriorate because of many factors beyond our control, including rising interest rates, the rate of inflation, currency exchange rates, changes in the regulatory environment, wars, acts of terrorism or political uncertainty. Difficult market and economic conditions, the level and volatility of interest rates, investor sentiment and political events have in the past adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect our business and profitability in many ways. For example, our revenues are directly related to the volume and value of investment banking transactions in which we are involved. During periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the volume and size of these transactions may decrease, thereby reducing the demand for our services and increasing price competition among financial services companies seeking those engagements. Our results of operations would be adversely affected by any reduction in the volume or size of corporate finance transactions. Similarly, weakness in equity markets and diminished trading volume of securities could adversely impact our sales and trading business. Finally, a general decline in the value of securities would adversely impact our investment portfolio. Our profitability may also be adversely affected by our fixed costs and the possibility that we would be unable to scale back other costs within a time frame sufficient to match any decreases in revenue relating to changes in market and economic conditions. Significantly expanded corporate governance and public disclosure requirements may result in fewer public offerings and discourage companies from engaging in capital market transactions, which may reduce the number of investment banking opportunities available for us to pursue. Highly-publicized financial scandals in recent years have led to investor concerns over the integrity of the U.S. financial markets, and have prompted the U.S. Congress, the SEC, FINRA, the NYSE and NASDAQ to significantly expand corporate governance and public disclosure requirements. To the extent that private companies, in order to avoid becoming subject to these new requirements, decide to forego public offerings or elect to be listed on foreign markets, our underwriting business may be adversely affected. In addition, provisions of S-Ox and the corporate governance rules imposed by self-regulatory organizations and stock exchanges have diverted the attention of many companies away from capital market transactions, including securities offerings and acquisition and disposition transactions. In particular, companies that either are or are planning to become public companies are incurring significant expenses in complying with the SEC reporting requirements relating to internal controls over financial reporting, and companies that disclose material weaknesses in such controls under the new standards may have greater difficulty accessing the capital markets. These factors, in addition to adopted or proposed accounting and disclosure changes, may have an adverse effect on our business. Financial services firms have been subject to increased scrutiny over the last several years, increasing the risk of financial liability and reputational harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions. The financial services industry has experienced increased scrutiny from a variety of regulators, including the SEC, the NYSE, NASDAQ, FINRA and state attorney generals. Penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years. This regulatory and enforcement environment has created uncertainty with respect to a number of transactions that had historically been entered into by financial services firms and that were generally believed to be permissible and appropriate. We may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. Each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many aspects of financial services, including, but not limited to, the authority to fine us and to grant, cancel, restrict or otherwise impose conditions on the right to carry on particular businesses. For example, a failure to comply with the obligations imposed by the Exchange Act on broker-dealers and the Investment Advisers Act on investment advisers, including record-keeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities, or by the Investment Company Act of 1940, could result in investigations, sanctions and reputational damage. We also may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities, FINRA or other self-regulatory 18 organizations that supervise the financial markets. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have adverse financial effects on us or harm our reputation, which could harm our business prospects. Financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interests or perceived conflicts. The SEC and other Federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted, and regularly review and update, various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts. However, appropriately addressing conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to appropriately address conflicts of interest. Our policies and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts may also result in increased costs and additional operational personnel. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or litigation against us. For example, the research operations of investment banks have been and remain the subject of heightened regulatory scrutiny which has led to increased restrictions on the interaction between equity research analysts and investment banking professionals at securities firms. Twelve securities firms in the United States have reached a global settlement since 2003 with certain Federal and state securities regulators and self-regulatory organizations to resolve investigations into the alleged conflicts of interest of research analysts, which resulted in rules that have imposed additional costs and limitations on the conduct of our business. Our exposure to legal liability is significant, and damages and other costs that we may be required to pay in connection with litigation and regulatory inquiries, and the reputational harm that could result from legal action against us, could adversely affect our businesses. We face significant legal risks in our businesses and, in recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have been increasing. These risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, employment claims, potential liability for “fairness opinions” and other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions and disputes over the terms and conditions of complex trading arrangements. As an investment banking firm, we depend to a large extent on our reputation for integrity and professionalism to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, it may be more damaging to our business than to other businesses. Moreover, our role as advisor to our clients on important underwriting or mergers and acquisitions transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering “fairness opinions” in connection with mergers and acquisitions and other transactions. Therefore, our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and aggrieved third parties, including our clients’ stockholders who could bring securities class action suits against us. Our investment banking engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services. However, there can be no assurance that these provisions will protect us or be enforceable in all cases. As a result, we may incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against litigation and may be required to pay substantial damages for settlements and adverse judgments. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could harm our results of operations or harm our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. Employee misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subjecting us to significant legal liability and reputational harm. Recently, there have been a number of highly-publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry, and there is a risk that our employees could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. For example, we often deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. If our employees were to improperly use or disclose confidential information provided by our clients, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position, current client relationships and ability to attract future clients. We are also subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our investment management business and our authority over the assets managed by our investment management business. The violation of these obligations and standards by any of our employees would adversely affect us and our clients. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. If our employees engage in misconduct, our business could be adversely affected. 19 Our sales and trading business may be adversely affected by potential changes in industry practices. Historically, our clients have paid us for equity research through commissions on trades. Recently, Fidelity Investments, a large fund manager, entered into arrangements with financial institutions of which it is a client, pursuant to which Fidelity agreed to pay separately for trading and research services, a process known as “unbundling.” As a result, the financial institutions will reduce their commission on trades but will charge Fidelity separately for research that they provide. It is uncertain whether “unbundling” arrangements will become an industry trend and, if so, to what extent. Furthermore, if it does become the industry norm, we cannot predict the consequences it will have on our operations in general, or on our sales and trading and research businesses in particular. If we were deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have an adverse effect on our business. We are not an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and we intend to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed an investment company. However, if we were to be deemed an investment company, restrictions imposed by the Investment Company Act of 1940, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to transact with affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could harm our business and the price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Historically, there has been a limited public market for our common stock. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common stock will ever develop or be sustained. Through October 15, 2007, our common stock was listed on the OTC Bulletin Board and traded under the symbol “RDRN.OB.” While listed on the OTC Bulletin Board, our common stock was thinly traded, making it difficult to maintain liquidity. Since October 16, 2007, our common stock has been listed on the NASDAQ Global Market and trades under the symbol “RODM.” Nevertheless, we cannot assure you that an established and liquid trading market will develop or continue if it does develop. Accordingly, investors should consider the potential lack of liquidity and the long-term nature of an investment in our common stock prior to investing. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade us or our sector, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades us or the industry in which we operate or the stock of any of our competitors, the price of our common stock will probably decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage altogether, we could lose visibility, which could also lead to a decline in the price of our common stock. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to factors such as: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition or results of operations; • the success or failure of our operating strategies and our perceived prospects and those of the financial services industry in general; • realization of any of the risks described in this section; • failure to be covered by securities analysts or failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts; • a decline in the stock prices of peer companies; and • a discount in the trading multiple of our common stock relative to that of common stock of certain of our peer companies due to perceived risks associated with our smaller size. 20 As a result, shares of our common stock may trade at prices significantly below the price you paid to acquire them. Furthermore, declines in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to raise capital or to recruit and retain key employees, including our managing directors and other key professional employees. Future sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to decline and your interest may be diluted if we issue additional shares of common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our executives, employees and other stockholders, or the possibility of such sales, may adversely affect the price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities. As of March 12, 2008, there are 34,945,738 shares of common stock outstanding, of which 8,350,627 shares of common stock are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) other than 86,000 shares that are owned by affiliates. The remaining 25,399,373 shares of common stock are available for future sale subject to timing and volume limitations under Rule 144, upon the expiration or waiver of transfer restrictions. Of these shares, 5,970,099 shares are covered by a selling stockholder prospectus. However, those shares are also covered by “lock-up” agreements preventing their sale or transfer prior to April 14, 2008 except in limited circumstances. In addition, we may issue additional shares of capital stock or rights or options to acquire such shares in the future in order to raise capital, to consummate an acquisition, to pay for products or services or to attract or retain key employees. Stockholders do not have preemptive rights to any common stock issued by us in the future. Therefore, stockholders may experience dilution of their equity investment if we issue additional shares of common stock in the future, including shares issuable under equity incentive plans, or if we issue securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock. Provisions of our organizational documents may discourage an acquisition of us, which could adversely impact the price of our common stock. Our organizational documents contain provisions that may impede the removal of directors and may discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire us. The Board of Directors may have the ability to take defensive measures that could impede or thwart a takeover such as, under certain circumstances, adopting a poison pill or causing us to issue preferred stock that has greater voting rights than our common stock. If a change of control or change in management that our stockholders might otherwise consider to be favorable is prevented or delayed, the market price of our common stock could decline. We have no current plan to pay dividends on our common stock and investors may lose the entire amount of their investment. We have no current plans to pay dividends on our common stock. Therefore, investors will not receive any funds absent a sale of their shares. We cannot assure investors of a positive return on their investment when they sell their shares nor can we assure that investors will not lose the entire amount of their investment. We are controlled by a limited number of stockholders whose interests may differ from those of our other stockholders. Paul Revere, LLC, our largest stockholder, owns 36.4% of our outstanding common stock. Revere is owned one-third by our President and a trust for the benefit of his children and two-thirds by a trust, the beneficiaries of which are the wife and children of our Vice Chairman. In addition, our other senior executive officers collectively own 11.7% of our common stock. As a result, our public stockholders have limited influence over the election of directors, management, company policies or major corporate decisions that require the consent of stockholders owning a majority of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock, such as mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This could adversely impact the market value of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 21 