ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s merger with PAETEC involves certain risks including, but not limited to: • difficulties assimilating the merged operations and personnel; • potential disruptions of the Company’s ongoing business; • the diversion of resources and management time; • the possibility that uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies may not be maintained; • risks associated with entering new markets in which the Company has little or no experience; 12 Table of Contents • the potential impairment of relationships with employees or customers as a result of changes in management; • difficulties in evaluating the future financial performance of the merged businesses; • difficulties integrating network equipment and operating support systems; • brand awareness issues related to the combined companies; • the incurrence of indebtedness required to complete the transaction including the terms of the indebtedness, interest rates and charges, repayment obligations and covenants; and • risks associated with attainment of targeted synergy and savings goals including reductions in personnel, reductions or changes in current and proposed spending, and changes to current business plans. The Company’s success depends on its ability to manage and expand operations effectively. The Company’s ability to manage and expand operations effectively will depend on its ability to: • offer high-quality, reliable services at reasonable costs; • install and operate telecommunications switches and related equipment; • lease access to suitable transmission facilities at competitive prices; • scale operations; • obtain successful outcomes in disputes and in litigation, rule-making, legislation and regulatory proceedings; • successfully negotiate, adopt or arbitrate interconnection agreements with other carriers; • acquire necessary equipment, software and facilities; • integrate existing and newly acquired technology and facilities, such as switches and related equipment; • evaluate markets; • add products; • monitor operations; • control costs; • maintain effective quality controls; • hire, train and retain qualified personnel; • enhance operating and accounting systems; • address operating challenges; • adapt to market and regulatory developments; and • obtain and maintain required governmental authorizations. In order for the Company to succeed, these objectives must be achieved in a timely manner and on a cost-effective basis. If these objectives are not achieved, the Company may not be able to compete in existing markets or expand into new markets. A failure to achieve one or more of these objectives could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. 13 Table of Contents In addition, the Company has grown rapidly since inception and expects to continue to grow primarily by expanding our product offerings, adding and retaining customers and entering new markets. The Company expects this growth to place a strain on operational, human and financial resources. The ability to manage operations and expansion effectively depends on the continued development of plans, systems and controls for operational, financial and management needs. The Company cannot give any assurance that these requirements can be satisfied or that the Company’s operations and growth can be managed effectively. A failure to satisfy these requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and the ability to implement fully its growth and operating plans. A decline in our base of business class customers or in the products and services we provide to them, or our inability to continue to grow our customer base, would have a significant negative effect on our results of operation and cash flow. The Company faces intense competition that could adversely affect its business. The market for telecommunications services is highly competitive. The Company is an integrated telecommunications carrier that primarily provides voice, data and Internet services to mid- to large-sized business class customers throughout a significant portion of the eastern United States. The Company competes, and will continue to compete, with current and potential market entrants, including: • long-distance carriers, or IXCs; • incumbent local exchange carriers, or ILECs; • other competitive local exchange carriers, or CLECs; • competitive access providers, or CAPS; • cable television companies; • electric utilities; • microwave carriers; • wireless telephone system operators; • private networks built by large end-users; and • VoIP providers. In addition, the possibility of combinations and strategic alliances in the telecommunications industry could give rise to significant new competitors. Moreover, some competitors have emerged from the protection of Chapter 11 with dramatically altered financial structures that could give those entities the ability to offer more competitive rates than the Company can offer. Increased competition is also expected from wireless service and VoIP providers as those technologies improve. The Company believes that its network, service offerings and customer-focused approach distinguishes it from competitors. However, many of the Company’s current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, personnel and other resources, including brand name recognition and long-standing relationships with customers. Many also own their own transport and local loop facilities, and the Company depends on regulations or the willingness of some competitors to lease those facilities to the Company. These resources may place the Company at a competitive disadvantage in existing markets and may impair our ability to expand into new markets, which could adversely affect the Company’s business. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully in existing markets or in new markets. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect the Company’s operations and growth. 14 Table of Contents The loss of the services of the Company’s senior officers could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business and prospects. None of these officers has an employment agreement, nor does the Company maintain key man life insurance on any of its officers. The competition for qualified managers in the telecommunications industry is intense. The Company may not be able to hire and retain necessary personnel in the future to replace any of its key officers or key employees. In addition, hiring and retaining additional qualified managerial, sales and technical personnel is critical to the Company’s success. Since inception, the Company has experienced significant competition in hiring and retaining personnel possessing necessary skills and telecommunications experience. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to hire and retain qualified personnel in the future. A failure to manage processes and systems for ordering, provisioning and billing effectively, or the failure of third parties to deliver these services on a timely and accurate basis, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to retain existing customers or to attract and retain new customers. The Company has processes and procedures and is working with external vendors, including the ILECs, to implement customer orders for services, the provisioning, installation and delivery of services and monthly billing for those services. The failure to effectively manage processes and systems for these service elements or the failure of underlying vendors, including ILECs, to deliver ordering, provisioning, billing or repair services on a timely, cost efficient and accurate basis could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to retain our existing customers or attract and retain new customers, which also would impact adversely the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. A failure to operate switches and other network equipment successfully could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations and the ability to attract and retain customers or to enter additional markets. The provision of voice, data and internet services is essential to the Company’s current strategy. If the switches and associated equipment necessary to operate our network, or the networks operated by our underlying carriers, experience technological or operational problems that cannot be resolved in a satisfactory or timely manner, or are affected by natural or man-made disasters, the Company’s ability to retain customers or to attract new ones would be adversely affected which also would impact adversely the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. We and other industry participants are frequently involved in disputes over issues that are important to our financial and operational success. Further legislation and regulatory rulemaking is expected to occur as the industry continues to deregulate and as we enter new markets or offer new products. Rulings or legislation adverse to us could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial well being. The deregulation of the telecommunications industry, the implementation of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (“Telecom Act”) and the distress of many carriers in the wake of the downturn in the telecommunications industry have involved numerous industry participants, including the Company, in disputes, lawsuits, proceedings and arbitrations before state and federal regulatory commissions, private arbitration organizations such as the American Arbitration Association, and courts over many issues important to the financial and operational success of the Company. These issues include the interpretation and enforcement of existing interconnection agreements and tariffs, the terms of new interconnection agreements, operating performance obligations, inter-carrier compensation, access rates applicable to different categories of traffic (including traffic originating from or terminating to cellular or wireless users), the jurisdiction of traffic for inter-carrier compensation purposes, the services and facilities available to the Company, the price the Company will pay for those services and facilities and the regulatory treatment of new technologies and services. We anticipate that the Company will continue to be involved in various disputes, lawsuits, arbitrations and proceedings over these and other material issues. The Company anticipates also that further legislative and regulatory rulemaking will occur—on the federal and state level—as the industry deregulates and as the Company enters new markets or offers new products. Rulings adverse to the Company, adverse legislation, new regulations or changes in governmental 15 Table of Contents policy on issues material to the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. There are significant uncertainties about the future availability and pricing of unbundled network elements and related elements from incumbent local exchange carriers. On December 15, 2004, the FCC adopted an order establishing new rules for Unbundled Network Elements (“UNEs”) (“Triennial Review Remand Order” or “TRRO”). In the TRRO the FCC removed, under certain circumstances, an ILEC’s obligation to unbundle high capacity local loops and dedicated transport and eliminated the obligation to provide access to unbundled local switching and dark fiber loops, which are no longer available as UNEs. In addition to establishing an impairment framework, the FCC limited the number of unbundled high capacity loops and transport circuits that may be obtained from the ILEC even in areas in which unbundling remains. The FCC held that UNE loops cannot be provisioned to provide exclusively mobile wireless services or stand-alone long distance services. Other than the foregoing restrictions and certain other restrictions on high capacity EELs or commingled circuits, no further restrictions were placed on the use of UNE loops. Also the FCC concluded that carriers may continue to convert special access circuits to UNEs or EELs. The Company cannot predict the ultimate effect the TRRO will have in the near future. However, the vast majority of our customers’ circuits currently are not UNE-based; rather, the Company has continued to lease the majority of customer circuits and other transport facilities either from ILECs at their special access pricing or from other carriers. Thus, while the FCC’s decision to permit, but limit, the availability of UNE loops and transport will not, in and of itself, have a material adverse impact on the Company, it ultimately could remove a significant opportunity for future cost-savings unless the Company is able to avoid the impact of the caps by purchasing either loops or transport from other carriers at competitive prices. While not directly related, the elimination of some UNEs, and the limitations on others could lead the ILECs to attempt to increase the costs for special access, which the Company would oppose. The elimination of, or higher prices for UNEs, combined with increases in prices for special access could have a material adverse effect on the Company. If the FCC Adopts the Missoula Plan or otherwise changes its rules on intercompany compensation, our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be negatively affected. If the FCC were to adopt the Missoula Plan for all traffic or otherwise change its rules on intercarrier compensation, it could have an adverse impact on the Company’s ability to bill carriers for reciprocal compensation (including compensation for ISP-bound traffic) and access charges and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flow and financial position. System disruptions could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause the Company to lose customers. The Company’s success ultimately depends on providing reliable service. Although the Company’s network has been designed to minimize the possibility of service disruptions or other outages, it may be disrupted by problems in the network, such as equipment failures, problems with a competitor’s or vendor’s system, problems related to building or property construction work, or physical damage to telephone lines or power surges and outages. Any disruption in the Company’s network could cause the loss of customers and result in additional expenses. Disruptions caused by security breaches, terrorism or other disasters, could harm our future operating results. The day-to-day operation of our business is highly dependent on our ability to protect our communications and information technology systems from damage or interruptions by events beyond our control. Sabotage, computer viruses or other infiltration by third parties could damage or disrupt our service, damage our facilities, damage our reputation, and cause us to lose customers, among other things, and could harm our results of operations. A catastrophic event could materially harm our 16 Table of Contents operating results and financial condition. Catastrophic events could include a terrorist attack in markets where we operate or a major earthquake, fire, or similar event that would affect our central offices, corporate headquarters, network operations center or network equipment. The FCC has undertaken a review of special access pricing which, if decided adversely to us, could have an adverse impact on the prices we pay for components of our network. In January 2005, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“NPRM”) to initiate a comprehensive review of rules governing the pricing of special access service offered by ILECs subject to price cap regulation. Special access pricing by these carriers currently is subject to price cap rules as well as pricing flexibility rules which permit these carriers to offer volume and term discounts and contract tariffs (Phase I pricing flexibility) and remove special access service in a defined geographic area from price caps regulation (Phase II pricing flexibility) based on showings of competition. The NPRM tentatively concludes to continue to permit pricing flexibility where competitive market forces are sufficient to constrain special access prices, but will undertake an examination of whether the current triggers for pricing flexibility (based on certain levels of collocation by competitors within the defined geographic area) accurately assess competition and have worked as intended. The NPRM also asks for comment on whether certain aspects of ILEC special access tariff offerings, some of which are particularly important to the Company (e.g., basing discounts on previous volumes of service; tying nonrecurring charges and termination penalties to term commitments; and imposing use restrictions in connection with discounts), are unreasonable. Given the early phase of the proceeding, the Company cannot predict the impact, if any, the NPRM will have on the Company’s network cost structure; however, if any of the matters addressed in the NPRM are decided adversely to the Company, it could result in increased prices for special access which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to purchase special access at competitive prices. On March 20, 2006, the FCC announced that it had permitted a request by Verizon for forbearance from Title II regulation of standalone broadband services, such as ATM, Frame Relay and similar packet-switched services to be deemed granted. Although the forbearance does not apparently apply to the special access services that we obtain from Verizon, the Company purchases certain of the affected services from Verizon and is in discussions with Verizon as to the impact on the current terms, conditions and rates on these services due to the grant of the petition. The FCC may consider further deregulation of ILEC broadband services which could increase our costs for some of these services. AT&T, BellSouth and Sprint have filed similar petitions for forbearance. The Verizon forbearance has been appealed. The Company cannot predict the impact, if any, that grant of this petition and similar ones will have on the Company’s network expenses; however, if the rates, terms and conditions associated with current services subject to the petition are negotiated adverse to the Company, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The outcome of pending rule-making proceedings addressing the proper framework for all intercarrier compensation could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. On February 10, 2005, the FCC released a Further NPRM in the Unified Intercarrier Compensation docket. The FCC had been expected to resolve a number of pending petitions addressing various compensation matters, but did not do so. Instead, the FCC simply announced that it is seeking comment on seven comprehensive reform proposals submitted by the industry in order to develop a compensation framework that will address the four common themes for reform that had emerged from the record: (1) encouraging efficient competition and the use of the network; (2) preserving universal service support; (3) fostering technological and competitive neutrality; and (4) minimizing regulatory intervention and enforcement. The Commission is also considering the regulatory status of VoIP which could impact the ability of the Company and other telecommunications carriers to impose intercarrier compensation charges on VoIP calls as well as requirements to pay intercarrier compensation for VoIP calls. The Company cannot predict the outcome of these FCC proceedings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 Table of Contents 