ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We have sought to identify what we believe to be the most significant risks to our business. However, we cannot predict whether, or to what extent, any of such risks may be realized nor can we guarantee that we have identified all possible risks that might arise. Investors should carefully consider all of such risk factors before making an investment decision with respect to our Common Stock. We provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possible inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business. These are factors that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. Other factors besides those listed here could adversely affect us. We Have Experienced Significant Losses And Expect Losses To Continue For The Foreseeable Future. We have yet to establish any history of profitable operations. We have incurred annual operating losses of $2,813,602, $1,435,613, and $1,102,723 respectively, during the past three fiscal years of operation. As a result, at December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $6,561,373. We had no revenues during the last five fiscal years and we do not expect to generate revenues from our operations for the foreseeable future. Our profitability will require the successful completion of our sponsored research, development efforts and the subsequent commercialization of our products, if any, derived from our sponsored research and development activities regarding our artificial liver device and in-vitro toxicology testing methodologies. No assurances can be given when this will occur or that we will ever be profitable. To date most of our operating losses have been related to expenditures related to our advertising and investor relations program rather than to our sponsored research and development program. Since inception through December 31, 2005, we have expended a total of $2,792,701 in connection with our advertising and investor relations representing approximately 42% of our total expenses for the period as compared to total research and development expenditures of $546,137 or approximately 8% of our total expenses for the 8 period. In 2005, we expended an additional $696,282 on our advertising and investor relations program and only $261,691 on our research and development activities. If we continue to expend funds in such a disproportionate manner, we may not have sufficient capital for the completion of our obligations under the CRADA or for the acquisition and development of new technologies. This would have an adverse affect on our operations and potential profitability, in which case we may need to substantially curtail or cease our research and development activities. We Currently Do Not Have, And May Never Develop, Any Commercialized Products. We currently do not have any commercialized products or any significant source of revenue. We have invested substantially all of our time and resources over the last three years in identification, research and development of technologies and products for liver toxicity detection and the treatment of various forms of liver dysfunction and disease. The technologies, which are the subject of our ongoing sponsored research programs, will require additional development, clinical evaluation, regulatory approval, significant marketing efforts and substantial additional investment (beyond the $807,828 to which we have committed under the terms of our CRADA) before they can provide us with any revenue. We cannot currently estimate with any accuracy the amount of these funds because it may vary significantly depending on the results of our current sponsored research and development activities, product testing, costs of acquiring licenses, changes in the focus and direction of our research and development programs, competitive and technological advances, the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims, the regulatory process, manufacturing, marketing and other costs associated with the commercialization of products following receipt of approval from regulatory bodies and other factors. Our efforts may not lead to commercially successful products for a number of reasons, including: - we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals or the approved indication may be narrower than we seek; - our technologies or products, if any, derived from our research and development efforts may not prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials; - physicians may not receive any reimbursement from third-party payors, or the level of reimbursement may be insufficient to support widespread adoption of any products derived from our research and development efforts; - any products that may be approved may not be accepted in the marketplace by physicians or patients; - we may not have adequate financial or other resources to complete the development and commercialization of products derived from our research and development efforts; - we may not be able to manufacture our products in commercial quantities or at an acceptable cost; and - rapid technological change may make our technologies and products derived from those technologies obsolete. We Will Require Additional Financing To Sustain Our Operations And Without It We Will Not Be Able To Continue Operations. Our independent auditors have added an explanatory paragraph to their audit opinion issued in connection with the financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, relative to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to obtain additional funding will determine our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. At December 31, 2005, we had a working capital deficit of $1,255,331. We have an operating cash flow deficit of $1,332,440 in 2005, $1,364,209 in 2004 and $1,022,501 in 2003. Although we believe that we have sufficient financial resources and commitments to sustain our current level of research and development activities,, any expansion, acceleration or continuation of such activities will require additional capital which may not be available to us, if at all, on terms and conditions that we find acceptable. 9 On January 20, 2006, we entered into a new common stock purchase agreement with Fusion Capital Fund II, LLC pursuant to which Fusion Capital has agreed, so long as no event of default exists, to purchase on each trading day $25,000 of our common stock up to an aggregate of $15.0 million over a 30 month period subject to earlier termination at our discretion. In our discretion, we may elect to sell more of our common stock to Fusion Capital than the minimum daily amount. The purchase price of the shares of common stock will be equal to a price based upon the future market price of the common stock without any fixed discount to the market price. Fusion Capital does not have the right or the obligation to purchase shares of our common stock in the event that the price of our common stock is less than $0.50. We May Not Be Able To Repay Loans We Have Received From Harmel S. Rayat, Our President, Director And Majority Stockholder, To Fund Our Operation. We have borrowed an aggregate of $1,150,000 from Harmel S. Rayat, our president, director and majority stockholder, pursuant to his $1,600,000 loan commitment to us. The loans are due upon the receipt of the written demand from Mr. Rayat. The loans bear interest at the rate of 8.50% per annum. We do not currently have sufficient capital on hand to repay these loans. We may prepay these loans, at any time, without penalty. We expect to repay these amounts from the proceeds we receive under the common stock purchase agreement with Fusion Capital. There is no assurance that we will be able to repay all or a part of these loans or obtain any additional loans from Mr. Rayat in the event we do not receive the proceeds from Fusion Capital. The Success Of Our Sponsored Research And Development Program Is Uncertain And We Expect To Be Engaged In Research And Development Efforts For A Considerable Period Of Time Before We Will Be In A Position, If Ever, To Develop And Commercialize Products Derived From Our Sponsored Research Program. We expect to continue our current sponsored research and development program through at least 2007. Research and development activities, by their nature, preclude definitive statements as to the time required and costs involved in reaching certain objectives. Actual costs may exceed the amounts ($807,828) we have budgeted and actual time may exceed our expectations. If our research and development requires more funding or time than we anticipate, then we may have to reduce technological development efforts or seek additional financing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure any necessary additional financing or that such financing would be available to us on favorable terms. Additional financings could result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. Even if we are able to fully fund our research and development program, there is no assurance that, even upon successful completion of our program, we will ever be able to commercialize products if any, derived from our research efforts or that we will be able to generate any revenues from operations. Our Sponsored Research and Development Program Is In The Preliminary Development Stage And The Results We Attain May Not Prove To Be Adequate For Purposes of Developing and Commercializing Any Products Or Otherwise To Support A Profitable Business Venture. Our sponsored research and development program is in the preliminary development stage. Our program is targeting specifically in-vitro toxicology and drug testing platforms and the development of an artificial liver device. We will require significant further research, development, testing and regulatory approvals and significant additional investment (beyond the $807,828 to which we have committed under the terms of our CRADA) before we will be in a position to attempt to commercialize products derived from our research and development program. We cannot currently estimate with any accuracy the amount of these funds because it may vary significantly depending on the results of our current sponsored research and development activities, product testing, costs of acquiring licenses, changes in the focus and direction of our research and development programs, competitive and technological advances, the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent cl aims, the regulatory process, manufacturing, marketing and other costs associated with commercialization of products following receipt of approval from regulatory bodies and other factors. There can be no assurances that our early stage sponsored research will be successful. The ultimate results of our ongoing research program may demonstrate that the technologies being researched by us may be ineffective, unsafe or unlikely to receive necessary regulatory approvals, if ever. If such results are obtained, we will be unable to create marketable products or generate revenues and we may have to cease operations. 10 We have not submitted any products or any technologies that are the subject of, or result from, our research and development activities for regulatory approval or clearance. Even if our research is successful, the process of obtaining necessary U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) approvals or clearances can take years and is expensive and full of uncertainties. Additionally, approved products are subject to continuing FDA requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, maintenance of records, reporting of adverse events and product recalls, documentation, labeling and promotion of medical products. Compliance with such continued regulatory oversight may prove to be costly and may limit our ability to attain profitable operations. We May Not Be Granted An Exclusive License Under Our CRADA With The USDA’s Agricultural Research Service. We are a party to a CRADA with the USDA’s Agricultural Research Service which grants us an option to negotiate an exclusive license to any invention or other intellectual property conceived or reduced to practice under the CRADA which is patentable or otherwise protectable under Title 35 of the United States Code or under the patent laws of a foreign country. There can be no assurance that such a license will be granted to us or that we can obtain a license on terms favorable to us. If we do not obtain an exclusive license, our ability to generate revenue would be materially adversely affected. We expect to enter into additional research agreements and licenses in the future that relate to important technologies that may be necessary for the development and commercialization of related and unrelated products. These agreements and licenses may impose various commercialization, indemnification, royalty, insurance and other obligations on us, which, if we fail to comply, may result in the termination of these agreements and licenses or make the agreements and licenses non-exclusive, which could affect our ability to exploit important technologies that are required for successful development of products, if any, derived from our ongoing sponsored research and development programs. Our CRADA With The USDA’s Agricultural Research Service May Be Terminated By Either Party At Any Time By Giving Written Notice Of Not Less Than Sixty Calendar Days Prior To The Desired Termination Date. Our current sponsored research and development program is based entirely on our CRADA with the USDA’s Agricultural Research Service. The termination date of the CRADA is September 30, 2007. However, the CRADA provides that it may be terminated unilaterally by either us or the USDA’s Agricultural Research Service upon written notice of not less than sixty calendar days prior to the desired termination date. This means that the USDA’s Agricultural Research Service could terminate the CRADA even if we are not in default under the terms of the Agreement. If the USDA’s Agricultural Research Service were to do so, our business and future prospects would be materially adversely affected. Currently, We Do Not Directly Conduct Any Of Our Research And Development Activities And Therefore We Will Have Minimal Control Over Such Research. We rely primarily on the USDA’s Agricultural Research Service to conduct, monitor and assess our sponsored research. We will have no control over the specifics of and possible direction that the research may take. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the USDA’s Agricultural Research Service will conduct our sponsored research in a manner that will lead to the commercial development of any products. We are also dependent upon the services of certain key scientific personnel who are not employed by us, including the principal investigators with respect to our on going research regarding both the treatment of liver disease (and related conditions), including the development of an artificial liver device, and in-vitro toxicology testing technologies. The loss of the services provided by such persons could have a materially adverse effect on us, unless qualified replacements could be found. We have no control over whether our principal investigators or other scientific personnel will choose to remain involved with our projects. Since these individuals are not bound by contract to us nor employed by us directly, they might move on to other research or positions. We Are Subject To Substantial Government Regulation Which Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Business. We have yet to develop any products for submission for regulatory approval. If any such products are submitted for approval, they must undergo rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and an extensive regulatory approval process 11 before they can be marketed. This process makes it longer, harder and more costly to bring any products to market; moreover, we cannot guarantee that approval will be granted. The pre-marketing approval process can be particularly expensive, uncertain and lengthy. Many products for which FDA have never been approved for marketing. In addition to testing and approval procedures, extensive regulations also govern marketing, manufacturing, distribution, labeling and record-keeping procedures. If we do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, such violations could result in warning letters, non-approval, suspensions of regulatory approvals, civil penalties and criminal fines, product seizures and recalls, operating restrictions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Delays in, or rejection of, FDA or other government entity approval may also adversely affect our business. Such delays or rejection may be encountered due to, among other reasons, government or regulatory delays, lack of efficacy during clinical trials, unforeseen safety issues, slower than expected rate of patient recruitment for clinical trials, inability to follow patients after treatment in clinical trials, inconsistencies between early clinical trial results and results obtained in later clinical trials, varying interpretations of data generated by clinical trials, or changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development in the United States. In the United States more stringent FDA oversight in product clearance and enforcement activities could result in our experiencing longer approval cycles, more uncertainty, greater risk and significantly higher expenses. Even if regulatory approval for any product is granted, this approval may entail limitations on uses for which any such product may be labeled and promoted. It is possible, for example, that we may not receive FDA approval to market products based on our sponsored research and development efforts for broader or different applications or to market updated products that represent extensions of any such product. In addition, we may not receive FDA approval to export any such product in the future, and countries to which products are to be exported may not approve them for import. Any manufacturing facilities would also be subject to continual review and inspection. The FDA has stated publicly that compliance with manufacturing regulations will be scrutinized more strictly. A governmental authority may challenge our compliance with applicable federal, state and foreign regulations. In addition, any discovery of previously unknown problems with any of our sponsored research and development efforts or products derived from such research and development, or facilities may result in marketing, sales and manufacturing restrictions, being imposed, as well as possible enforcement actions. From time to time, legislative or regulatory proposals are introduced that could alter the review and approval process relating to our research and development programs and products, if any, derived from such research. It is possible that the FDA will issue additional regulations further restricting the sale of our products, if any, derived from our research and development efforts. Any change in legislation or regulations that govern the review and approval process relating to could make it more difficult and costly to obtain approval, or to produce, market, and distribute such products, if any, derived from our research and development efforts, even if approved. We May Be Required To Comply With Rules Regarding Animal Testing and This May Limit the Success of Our Research and Development Program. Our sponsored research and development efforts involve laboratory animals. We may be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations or accepted procedures applicable to animal testing or by social pressures that would restrict the use of animals in testing or by actions against our collaborators or us by groups or individuals opposed to such testing. Our Sponsored Research and Development Program Uses Cells Derived From Pigs, Which Could Prevent The FDA Or Other Health Regulatory Agencies From Approving Products, If Any, Derived From Our Research and Development Efforts. Because pigs carry genetic material of the porcine endogenous retrovirus (“PERV”), our use of cells derived from pigs carries a risk of transmitting viruses harmless to pigs, but deadly to humans. This may result in the FDA or other health regulatory agencies not approving products, if any, derived from our sponsored research and development efforts or subsequently banning any further use of any such products should health concerns arise after any such product was approved. At this time, it is unclear whether we will be able to obtain clinical and product liability insurance that covers the PERV risk. 12 We May Be Liable For Contamination Or Other Harm Caused By Materials That We Handle, And Changes In Environmental Regulations Could Cause Us To Incur Additional Expense. Our sponsored research and development programs do not generally involve the handling of potentially harmful biological materials or hazardous materials, but they may occasionally do so. The USDA’s Agricultural Research Service and we are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous and biological materials. If violations of environmental, health and safety laws occur, we could be held liable for damages, penalties and costs of remedial actions. These expenses or this liability could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may violate environmental, health and safety laws in the future as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes. Environmental laws could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations. We may be subject to potentially c onflicting and changing regulatory agendas of political, business and environmental groups. Changes to or restrictions on permitting requirements or processes, hazardous or biological material storage or handling might require an unplanned capital investment or relocation. Failure to comply with new or existing laws or regulations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even If We Were To Secure Regulatory Approval In The Future For Any Product Derived From Our Sponsored Ongoing Research Efforts, We Lack Sales and Marketing Experience and Will Likely Rely On Third Parties For Such Services. Our ability to achieve profitability is dependent in part on ultimately obtaining regulatory approvals for products, if any, which are derived from our sponsored research and development efforts, and then entering into agreements for the commercialization of any such products. There can be no assurance that such regulatory approvals will be obtained or such agreements will be entered into. The failure to obtain any such necessary regulatory approvals or to enter into any such necessary agreements could delay or prevent us from achieving profitability and would have a material adverse effect on the business, financial position and results of our operations. Further, there can be no assurance that our operations will become profitable even if products, if any, which are derived from our sponsored research and development efforts, are commercialized. If FDA and other approvals are ultimately obtained with respect to any product submitted by us in the future for approval, we expect to market and sell any such product through distribution, co-marketing, co-promotion or sublicensing arrangements with third parties. We have no experience in sales, marketing or distribution of biotechnology products and our current management and staff is not trained in these areas. To date, we have no such agreements. To the extent that we enter into distribution, co-marketing, co-promotion or sublicensing arrangements for the marketing and sale of any such products, any revenues received by us will be dependent on the efforts of third parties. If any of such parties were to breach or terminate their agreement with us or otherwise fail to conduct marketing activities successfully, and in a timely manner, the commercialization of products, if any, derived from our research and development efforts would be delayed or terminated. We May Not Be Able To Attract And Retain Qualified Personnel Either As Employees Or As Consultants; Without Such Personnel, We May Not Be Successful In Commercializing The Results Of Our Ongoing Research And Development Efforts. Competition for qualified employees among companies in the biotechnology industry is intense. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. Our present management has no clinical or other experience in the development of biotechnology products. Attracting desirable employees will require us to offer competitive compensation packages, including possible stock options. In order to successfully commercialize the results of our ongoing research and development efforts or products, if any, derived from our research program we must substantially expand our personnel, particularly in the areas of clinical trial management, regulatory affairs, business development and marketing. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel. Managing the integration of new personnel and our growth generally could pose significant risks to our development and progress. The addition of such pers onnel may result in significant changes in our utilization of cash resources and our development schedule. 13 We Expect To Operate In A Highly Competitive Market; We May Face Competition From Large, Well-Established Companies With Significant Resources; And, We May Not Be Able To Compete Effectively. Our commercial success will depend on our ability and the ability of our sublicensees, if any, to compete effectively in product development areas such as, but not limited to, safety, efficacy, ease of use, patient or customer compliance, price, and marketing and distribution. There can be no assurance that competitors will not succeed in developing products that are more effective than any products derived from our research and development efforts or that would render such products obsolete and non-competitive. The biotechnology industry is characterized by intense competition, rapid product development and technological change. Most of the competition that we encounter will come from companies, research institutions and universities who are researching and developing technologies and potential products similar to or competitive with our own. These companies enjoy numerous competitive advantages over us, including: - significantly greater name recognition; - established relations with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party payors; - established distribution networks; - additional lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates, higher discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; - greater experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approval for products, and marketing approved products; and - greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing, and patent litigation. As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively against these companies or their products. We May Become Subject To Claims Of Infringement Or Misappropriation Of The Intellectual Property Rights Of Others, Which Could Prohibit Us From Commercializing Products Based On Our Sponsored Research And Development Program, Require Us To Obtain Licenses From Third Parties Or To Develop Non-Infringing Alternatives, And Subject Us To Substantial Monetary Damages And Injunctive Relief. We do not have any patents regarding any of our sponsored research and development activities. We may not be able to assert any rights, under our CRADA, to any patents held by the USDA’s Agriculture Research Service. Third parties could, in the future, assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to our current sponsored research and development program or future products, if any, derived from our sponsored research and development program. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we have not infringed the intellectual property rights of such third parties. Any infringement or misappropriation claim could cause us to incur significant costs, could place significant strain on our financial resources, divert management’s attention from our business and harm our reputation. If the relevant patents were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe, we could be prohibited from continuing our research and development activities and from marketing or selling products, if any, derived from our sponsored research and development efforts unless we could obtain licenses to use the technology covered by the patent or are able to design around the patent. We may be unable to obtain a license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and we may not be able to commercialize any products. A court could also order us to pay compensatory damages for such infringement, plus prejudgment interest and could, in addition, treble the compensatory damages and award attorney fees. These damages could be substantial and could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. Depending on the nature of the relief ordered by the court, we could become liable for additional damages to third parties. We May Be Exposed To Product Liability Claims For Which We Do Not Have Any Insurance Coverage. Because our activities involve the researching, developing and testing of new technologies; and in the future we may be involved either directly or indirectly in the manufacturing and distribution of products, if any, derived from our 14 sponsored research and development efforts, we may be exposed to the financial risk of liability claims in the event that the use of any such product results in personal injury, misdiagnosis or death. We may be subject to claims against us even if the apparent injury is due to the actions of others. There can be no assurance that we will not experience losses due to product liability claims in the future, or that adequate insurance will be available in sufficient amounts, at an acceptable cost, or at all. A product liability claim, product recall or other claim, or claims for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These liabilities could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. Defending a suit, regardless of merit, could be costly, could divert management attention and might result in adverse publicity, which could result in the withdrawal of, or inability to recruit, clinical trial volunteers, or result in reduced acceptance of products derived from our sponsored research and development activities in the market. We do not currently carry any insurance. If a claim against us results in a large monetary judgment, which we cannot pay, we may have to cease operations. Failure To Obtain Third Party Reimbursement For Products Derived From Our Sponsored Research and Development Efforts Could Limit Our Revenue. In the United States, success in obtaining payment for a new product from third parties, such as insurers, depends greatly on the ability to present data which demonstrates positive outcomes and reduced utilization of other products or services, as well as cost data which shows that treatment costs using the new product are equal to or less than what is currently covered for other products. If we are unable to obtain favorable third party reimbursement and patients are unwilling or unable to pay for such products or services out-of-pocket, it could limit our revenue and harm our business. Mr. Harmel S. Rayat, Our President, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer And Director, Is Able To Substantially Influence All Matters Requiring Approval By Our Stockholders, Including The Election Of Directors. As of April 6, 2006, Mr. Rayat beneficially owned approximately 69% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, he is able to substantially influence virtually all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors. Our Articles of Incorporation do not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors and, therefore, although they are able to vote, our other stockholders should not expect to be able to elect any directors to our board of directors. We Rely On Our Management, The Loss Of Whose Services Could Have A Material Adverse Affect On Our Business. We rely upon the services of our board of directors and management, in particular those of Mr. Harmel S. Rayat, the loss of which could have a material adverse affect on our business and prospects. Competition for qualified personnel to serve in a senior management position is intense. If we are not able to retain our directors and management, or attract other qualified personnel, we may not be able to fully implement our business strategy; failure to do so would have a materially adverse impact on our future prospects. We currently have no employment agreements with any of our officers and directors imposing any specific condition on our officers and directors regarding their continued employment by us. Our officers and directors are also officers, directors and employees of other companies, and we may have to compete with such other companies for their time, attention and efforts. Except for Mr. Rayat, none of our officers and directors is expected to spend more than approximately five (5%) of his time on our business affairs. Mr. Rayat will not be spending his full time and effort on our business affairs because he is engaged in other business activities. We do not expect Mr. Rayat to spend more than twenty (20%) of his time on our business affairs. If Mr. Rayat’s other business activities, from time to time, require more of Mr. Rayat’s time, he may have less time to spend on our business affairs and our operations could suffer as a result. &nb sp;We do not maintain key man insurance on any of our directors or officers. 15 Future Sales Of Our Common Stock May Decrease Our Stock Price. We have previously issued a total of 70,870,564, shares of common stock, of which 55,039,683, are eligible for resale under Rule 144 of the Securities Act. In addition, we have also registered a substantial number of shares of common stock that are issuable upon the exercise of options. If holders of options choose to exercise their purchase rights and sell shares of common stock in the public market all at once or in a short time period, the prevailing market price for our common stock may decline. Future public sales of shares of common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or our future ability to raise capital by offering equity securities. Our Stock Price Historically Has Been Volatile And May Continue To Be Volatile. The market price of our common stock has been and is expected to continue to be highly volatile. Factors, many of which are beyond our control, include, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, the announcements of technological innovations by us or other companies, regulatory matters, new or existing products or procedures, concerns about our financial position, operating results, litigation, government regulation, developments or disputes relating to agreements, patents or proprietary rights, and general economic, industry and market conditions may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock. In addition, potential dilutive effects of future sales of shares of common stock by our stockholders and by us, including Fusion Capital pursuant to this prospectus and subsequent sale of common stock by the holders options could have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. Volatility in the market price for particular companies has often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, securities class action litigation has often been initiated following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities, and the diversion of management's attention and resources. To the extent our stock price fluctuates and/or remains low, it could cause you to lose some or all of your investment and impair our ability to raise capital through the offering of additional equity securities. Our Common Is A "Penny Stock" And Because "Penny Stock” Rules Will Apply, You May Find It Difficult To Sell The Shares Of Our Common Stock You Acquired In This Offering. Our common stock is a “penny stock” as that term is defined under Rule 3a51-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Generally, a "penny stock" is a common stock that is not listed on a securities exchange and trades for less than $5.00 a share. Prices often are not available to buyers and sellers and the market may be very limited. Penny stocks in start-up companies are among the riskiest equity investments. Broker-dealers who sell penny stocks must provide purchasers of these stocks with a standardized risk-disclosure document prepared by the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission. The document provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks involved in investing in the penny stock market. A broker must also give a purchaser, orally or in writing, bid and offer quotations and information regarding broker and salesperson compensation, make a written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purcha ser, and obtain the purchaser's written agreement to the purchase. Many brokers choose not to participate in penny stock transactions. Because of the penny stock rules, there is less trading activity in penny stock and you are likely to have difficulty selling your shares. Our Common Shares Are Thinly Traded, So You May Be Unable To Sell At Or Near Ask Prices Or At All If You Need To Sell Your Shares To Raise Money Or Otherwise Desire To Liquidate Your Shares. Our common shares have historically been sporadically or "thinly-traded" on the OTCBB, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common shares at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. As of April 6, 2006, our average trading volume per day for the past three months was approximately 49,867 shares a day with a high of 164,200 shares traded and a low of 6,000 shares traded. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequ ence, there may be periods of 16 several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common shares will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained. Compliance With Changing Regulation Of Corporate Governance And Public Disclosure May Result In Additional Expenses. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and, in the event we are ever approved for listing on either NASDAQ or a registered exchange, NASDAQ and stock exchange rules, will require an increased amount of management attention and external resources. We intend to continue to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, which may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We Do Not Intend To Pay Dividends For The Foreseeable Future. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to support the development and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Our payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including but not limited to our financial condition, operating results, cash needs, growth plans and the terms of any credit agreements that we may be a party to at the time. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase the units offered by us pursuant to this prospectus. 17 