ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors in evaluating our business, operations and financial condition. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or that are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or businesses in general, such as competitive conditions, may also impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in outsourcing trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends in large part on demand from the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and healthcare industries for outsourced commercialization services. The practice of many companies in these industries has been to hire outside organizations like PDI to conduct large sales and marketing projects on their behalf. However, companies may elect to perform these services internally for a variety of reasons, including the rate of new product development and FDA approval of those products, the number of sales representatives employed internally in relation to demand, the need to promote new and existing products, and competition from other suppliers. During the past few years, there has been a slow-down in the rate of approval of new products by the FDA and this trend may continue. Additionally, several larg e pharmaceutical companies have recently made changes to their commercial model by reducing the number of sales representatives employed internally and through outside organizations like PDI. These and other developments within the pharmaceutical industry have resulted in a decrease in the market for outsourced sales and marketing services during the last few years, and there can be no assurances regarding the timing or extent of any reversal of these trends. If the pharmaceutical and life sciences industries reduce their tendency to outsource these projects, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If companies in the life sciences industries significantly reduce their promotional, marketing and sales expenditures or significantly reduce or eliminate the role of pharmaceutical sales representatives in the promotion of their products, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our revenues depend on promotional, marketing and sales expenditures by companies in the life sciences industries, including the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Promotional, marketing and sales expenditures by pharmaceutical manufacturers have in the past been, and could in the future be, negatively impacted by, among other things, governmental reform or private market initiatives intended to reduce the cost of pharmaceutical products or by governmental, medical association or pharmaceutical industry initiatives designed to regulate the manner in which pharmaceutical manufacturers promote their products as well as the high level of patent expiration and related introduction of generic versions of branded medicine within the industry. Furthermore, the trend in the life sciences industries toward consolidation may result in a reduction in overall sales and marketing expenditures and, potentially, a reduction in the use of outsourced sales and marketing services providers. This reduction in demand for outsourced pharmaceutical sales and marketing services could be further exacerbated by the current economic and financial crisis occurring in the United States and worldwide. If companies in the life sciences industries significantly reduce their promotional, marketing and sales expenditures or significantly reduce or eliminate the role of pharmaceutical sales representatives in the promotion of their products, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents PDI, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K Our service contracts are generally short-term agreements and are cancelable at any time, which may result in lost revenue and additional costs and expenses. Our service contracts are generally for a term of one to two years (certain of our operating entities have contracts of shorter duration) and many may be terminated by the customer at any time for any reason. In addition, many of our customers may internalize the contracted sales teams we provide under the terms of the contract or otherwise significantly reduce the number of representatives we deploy on their behalf. The early termination or significant reduction of a contract by one of our customers not only results in lost revenue, but also typically causes us to incur additional costs and expenses, such as termination expenses relating to excess employee capacity. All of our sales representatives are employees rather than independent contractors. Accordingly, when a contract is significantly reduced or terminated, unless we can immediately transfer the related sales force to a new program, if permitted under the contract, we must either continue to compensate those employees, without realizing any related revenue, or terminate their employment. If we terminate their employment, we may incur significant expenses relating to their termination. The loss, termination or significant reduction of a large contract or the loss of multiple contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The majority of our revenue is derived from a very limited number of customers, the loss of any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenue and profitability depend to a great extent on our relationships with a very limited number of large pharmaceutical companies. As of December 31, 2009, our two largest customers accounted for approximately 42.0% and 16.5%, or a total of 58.5%, of our service revenue for 2009. As of December 31, 2008, our three largest customers accounted for approximately 28.2%, 13.6%, and 10.7%, respectively, or approximately 52.5% in the aggregate, of our revenue for 2008. We believe that we may experience an even higher degree of customer concentration during 2010 and this trend may continue beyond 2010 in light of continued consolidation within the pharmaceutical industry. In order to increase our revenues, we will need to attract additional significant customers on an ongoing basis. Our failure to attract a sufficient number of such customers during a particular period, or our inability to replace the loss of or significant reduction in business from a major customer would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, during 2006 and 2007, we announced the termination and expiration of a number of significant service contracts. In addition, another customer terminated a significant sales force program effective September 30, 2008 due to generic competition. This sales force program accounted for 9.5% of our revenue during 2008. We incurred substantial losses in connection with our recently terminated promotional agreement under our product commercialization initiative, and if we are unable to generate sufficient revenue from any future product commercialization or other similar opportunities that we may pursue, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Effective April 22, 2009, we and Novartis mutually agreed to terminate the promotional agreement that was entered into in April 2008 in connection with our product commercialization initiative. During the term of this promotion agreement, we incurred significant expenses in connection with implementing and maintaining the program while required product sales levels necessary to receive revenue under the agreement were never achieved, and therefore we did not generate any revenue from this agreement during its term. While we are not actively engaged in any additional product commercialization opportunities at this time, we continue to evaluate potential opportunities on a very selective and opportunistic basis. To the extent we enter into any arrangements in the future in which all or a portion of our anticipated revenue is based on sales of the product, there can be no assurance that our promotional activities will generate sufficient product sales for these types of arrangements to be profitable for us and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, there are a number of factors that could negatively impact product sales during the term of a sales force promotional program, many of which are beyond our control, including the level of promo tional response to the product, withdrawal of the product from the market, the launch of a therapeutically equivalent generic version of the product, the introduction of a competing product, loss of managed care covered lives, a significant disruption in the manufacture or supply of the product as well as other significant events that could affect sales of the product or the prescription market for the product. 10 Table of Contents PDI, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K If we do not meet performance goals established in our incentive-based and revenue-sharing arrangements with customers, our revenue could be materially and adversely affected. We have entered into a number of incentive-based arrangements with our pharmaceutical company customers. Under incentive-based arrangements, we are typically paid a lower fixed fee and, in addition, have an opportunity to earn additional compensation upon achieving specific performance metrics with respect to the products being detailed. Typically, these performance metrics relate to targeted sales or prescription volumes, sales force performance metrics or a combination thereof. In addition, we have entered into and may in the future enter into revenue sharing arrangements with customers. Under revenue sharing arrangements, we are typically paid a fixed fee covering all or a portion of our direct costs with our remaining compensation based on the market performance of the products being promoted by us , usually expressed as a percentage of product sales. These incentive-based and revenue sharing arrangements transfer some or most of the market risk from our customers to us. In addition, these arrangements can result in variability in revenue and earnings due to seasonality of product usage, changes in market share, new product introductions (including the introduction of competing generic products into the market), overall promotional efforts and other market related factors. If we are unable to meet the performance goals established in our incentive-based arrangements or the expected product market performance goals in our revenue sharing arrangements, our revenue could be materially and adversely affected Additionally, certain of our service contracts may contain penalty provisions pursuant to which our fixed fees may be significantly reduced if we do not meet certain minimum performance metrics, which may include number and timing of sales calls, physician reach, territory vacancies and/or sales representative turnover. Our industry is highly competitive and our failure to address competitive developments promptly will limit our ability to retain and increase our market share. Our primary competitors for sales and marketing services include in-house sales and marketing departments of pharmaceutical companies, other CSOs and providers of marketing and related services, including marketing research providers. There are relatively few barriers to entry in the businesses in which we compete and, as the industry continues to evolve, new competitors are likely to emerge. Most of our current and potential competitors are larger than we are and have substantially greater capital, personnel and other resources than we have and certain of our competitors currently offer a broader range of personal and non-personal promotional and other related commercialization services than we do. Our inability to continue to remain competitive with respect to the range of service offerings that we can provide companies within the pharmaceutical industry or any other factors that result in increased competition may lead to pricing pressures that could have a material adverse effect on our market share and our ability to source new business opportunities as well as our business and results of operations. We may require additional funds in order to implement our business model, which we may be unable to obtain on favorable terms, if at all. We may require additional funds in order to pursue certain business opportunities or meet future operating requirements, develop incremental marketing and sales capabilities; and/or acquire other services businesses. We may seek additional funding through public or private equity or debt financing or other arrangements with collaborative partners. Our ability to secure any future debt financing on favorable terms or at all may be materially and adversely affected by the current credit market turmoil. In addition, any debt financing arrangements that we enter into may require us to comply with specified financial ratios, including ratios regarding interest coverage, total leverage, senior secured leverage and fixed charge coverage. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by ev ents beyond our control. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to existing stockholders may result. As a condition to providing us with additional funds, future investors may demand, and may be granted, rights superior to those of existing stockholders. We cannot be certain; however, that additional financing will be available from any of these sources or, if available, will be available on acceptable or affordable terms. If adequate additional funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our strategic initiatives. Due to the expiration and termination of several significant contracts during 2006, 2007 and 2008, our historical revenue and results of operations cannot be relied upon as representative of the revenue and results of operations that we may achieve in 2010 and future periods. 11 Table of Contents PDI, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K As noted above, during 2006 and the first half of 2007, we experienced the expiration and termination of several significant contracts which accounted for an aggregate of approximately $150.9 million of revenue during 2006 and $15.9 million of revenue during 2007. In addition, another significant sales force program was terminated in 2008 which accounted for approximately $10.7 million of revenue during 2008. Unless and until we generate sufficient new business to offset the loss of these contracts, our financial results for these previous periods will not be duplicated in future periods, and future revenue and cash flows from operations will be significantly less than in previous periods. The current worldwide economic and financial crisis may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The current global financial crisis involves, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide. Sustained downturns in the economy generally affect the markets in which we operate. If our customers’ access to capital or willingness to make expenditures is curtailed as a result of the current economic and financial crisis, the demand for our services may decrease and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. For example, certain customers within our Marketing Services segment delayed the implementation or reduced the scope of a number of marketing initiatives during 2009. 60;In addition, economic conditions could affect the financial strength of our vendors and their ability to fulfill their commitments to us, and could also affect the financial strength of our customers and our ability to collect accounts receivable. Recent disruptions in the credit markets may also negatively impact our ability to obtain additional sources of financing. The potential effects of the current economic and financial crisis are difficult to forecast and mitigate and are likely to continue to have a significant adverse impact on our customers, vendors and our business for the next several years. Our liquidity, business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if the financial institutions which hold our funds fail. We have substantial funds held in bank deposits, money market funds and other accounts at certain financial institutions. A significant portion of the funds held in these accounts exceeds the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s insurance limits. If any of the financial institutions where we have deposited funds were to fail, we may lose some or all of our deposited funds that exceed the insurance coverage limit. Such a loss would have a material and adverse effect on our liquidity, business and financial condition. Our business may suffer if we fail to attract and retain qualified sales representatives. The success and growth of our business depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified pharmaceutical sales representatives. There is intense competition for pharmaceutical sales representatives from CSOs and pharmaceutical companies. In addition, in certain instances, we offer customers the option to permanently hire our sales representatives, and on occasion, our customers have hired the sales representatives that we trained to detail their products. We cannot assure you that we will continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. If we cannot attract and retain qualified sales personnel, we will not be able to maintain or expand our Sales Services business and our ability to perform under our existing sales force contracts will be impaired. Product liability claims could harm our business, and result in substantial penalties. We could face substantial product liability claims in the event any of the pharmaceutical or other products we have previously marketed or market now or may in the future market is alleged to cause negative reactions or adverse side effects or in the event any of these products causes injury, is alleged to be unsuitable for its intended purpose or is alleged to be otherwise defective. For example, in the past we were named as a defendant in numerous lawsuits as a result of our detailing of Baycolâ on behalf of Bayer Corporation (Bayer). Product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert management’s attention from our business operations; could adve rsely affect our reputation and the demand for our services; and could result in substantial civil, criminal, or other sanctions. Additionally, such litigation may incur investigation or enforcement action by the FDA, Department of Justice, state agencies, or other legal authorities, and may result in substantial civil, criminal, or other sanctions. Any action against us, even if we successfully defend against it, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. While we rely on contractual indemnification provisions with our customers to protect us against certain product liability related claims, we cannot assure you that these provisions will be fully enforceable or that they will provide adequate protection against claims intended to be covered. We currently have product liability insurance in the aggregate amount of $5.0 million but cannot ensure that our insurance will be sufficient to cover fully all potential claims. Also, adequate insurance coverage might not be available in the future at acceptable costs, if at all. 12 Table of Contents PDI, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K If we do not increase our revenues and successfully manage the size of our operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The majority of our operating expenses are personnel-related costs such as employee compensation and benefits as well as the cost of infrastructure to support our operations, including facility space and equipment. During 2009, we instituted a number of cost-saving initiatives, including a reduction in employee headcount. In addition, we are currently seeking to sublet unused office space in our Saddle River, New Jersey and Dresher, Pennsylvania facilities, although there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully sublet this unused office space, particularly in light of the current economic and financial crisis. If we are unable to achieve revenue growth in the future or fail to adjust our cost infrastructure to the appropriate level to support our revenues, our business, financial cond ition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business may suffer if we are unable to hire and retain key management personnel to fill critical vacancies. The success of our business also depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified senior management who are in high demand and who often have competitive employment options. Our failure to attract and retain qualified individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in governmental regulation could negatively impact our business operations and increase our costs. The pharmaceutical and life sciences industries are subject to a high degree of governmental regulation. Significant changes in these regulations affecting the services we provide, including pharmaceutical product promotional and marketing research services and physician interaction programs, could result in the imposition of additional restrictions on these types of activities, additional costs to us in providing these services to our customers or otherwise negatively impact our business operations. Changes in governmental regulations mandating price controls and limitations on patient access to our customers’ products could also reduce, eliminate or otherwise negatively impact our customers’ utilization of our sales and marketing services. In addition, potential healthcare reform legislation cu rrently under consideration by the U.S. Congress could significantly increase our costs in providing healthcare benefits to our employees, including a possible mandate requiring that certain benefits be provided to our part-time employees. Our failure, or that of our customers, to comply with applicable healthcare regulations could limit, prohibit or otherwise adversely impact our business activities and could result in substantial penalties. Various laws, regulations and guidelines established by government, industry and professional bodies affect, among other matters, the provision, licensing, labeling, marketing, promotion, sale and distribution of healthcare services and products, including pharmaceutical products. The healthcare industry also is regulated by various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including prohibitions on the payment or acceptance of kickbacks or other remuneration in return for the purchase or lease of products that are paid for by Medicare or Medicaid. Violations of these regulations may incur investigation or enforcement action by the FDA, Department of Justice, state agencies, or other legal authorities, and may result in substantial civil, criminal, or other sanctions. Sanctions for violatin g the fraud and abuse laws also may include possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal or state healthcare programs. Additionally, violations of these regulations could result in litigation which could result in substantial civil, criminal, or other sanctions. Further, violations of these regulations may, among other things, limit or prohibit our or our customers’ current or business activities, subject us or our customers to adverse publicity, and increase the cost of regulatory compliance. Sanctions for violating these laws include civil and criminal fines and penalties and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal or state healthcare programs. Although we believe our current business arrangements do not violate these laws, we cannot assure you that our business practices will not be challenged under these laws in the future or that a challenge would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, even if we successfully defend against such claims. While we rely on contractual indemnification provisions with our customers to protect us against certain claims, we cannot assure you that these provisions will be fully enforceable or that they will provide adequate protection against claims intended to be covered. We have and may continue to experience additional impairment charges of our goodwill and other intangible assets. We are required to evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually, and between annual tests if events or circumstances warrant such a test. These events or circumstances could include a significant long-term adverse change in the business climate, poor indicators of operating performance or a sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is one level below our operating segments. Goodwill has been assigned to the reporting units to which the value of the goodwill relates. We currently have five reporting units; however, only one reporting unit, Pharmakon, includes goodwill. If we determine that the fair value is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss will be recorded in our stateme nt of operations. The determination of fair value is a highly subjective exercise and can produce significantly different results based on the assumptions used and methodologies employed. If our projected long-term sales growth rate, profit margins or terminal growth rate are considerably lower and/or the assumed weighted-average cost of capital is considerably higher, future testing may indicate impairment and we would have to record a non-cash goodwill impairment loss in our statement of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded an impairment charge of $18.1 million related to goodwill and other intangible assets. See Note 6, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, in Part II – “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for further information. 13 Table of Contents PDI, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K If our insurance and self-insurance reserves are insufficient to cover our future liabilities for workers compensation, automobile and general liability and employee health care benefits, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liabilities for workers’ compensation, automobile and general liability and employee health care benefits. Although we have reserved for these liabilities not covered by third-party insurance, our reserves are based on estimates developed using actuarial data as well as historical trends. Any projection of these losses is subject to a high degree of variability and we may not be able to accurately predict the number or value of the claims that occur in the future. In the event that our actual liability exceeds our reserves for any given period or if we are unable to control rapidly increasing health care costs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If our information technology and communications systems fail or we experience a significant interruption in their operation, our reputation, business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology and communications systems. The failure of these systems to operate as anticipated could disrupt our business and result in decreased revenue and increased overhead costs. In addition, we do not have complete redundancy for all of our systems and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. Our information technology and communications systems, including the information technology systems and services that are maintained by third party vendors, are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, fire, terrorist attacks, malicious attacks by computer viruses or hackers, power loss or failure of computer systems, Internet, telecommunications or data networks. If these systems or services become unavailable or suffer a security breach, we may expend significant resources to address these problems, and our reputation, business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we incur problems with any of our third party service providers, our business operations could be adversely affected. We have historically relied on outside vendors for a variety of services and functions significant to our businesses. In the event one or more of our vendors ceases operations, terminates its service contract or otherwise fails to perform its obligations to us in a timely and efficient manner, we may be unable to replace these vendors on a timely basis at comparable prices, which could adversely affect our ability to satisfy our contractual obligations to our customers or otherwise meet business objectives and could lead to increases in our cost structure. If we are unable to successfully sublet unused office space, our financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. During the fourth quarter of 2009, we exited our Saddle River, New Jersey facility and relocated our corporate headquarters to a smaller, less costly and more strategically located office space in Parsippany, New Jersey. We are currently seeking to sublease our third floor office space, approximately 47,000 square feet, in Saddle River, New Jersey. At December 31, 2009, we had future minimum lease payments associated with the Saddle River, New Jersey facility totaling $14.2 million offset by future minimum sublease rental income totaling $5.7 million. Additionally, we are currently seeking to sublease approximately 22,100 square feet of unused space at our Dresher, Pennsylvania facility. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to successfully sublet any or all of our unused office space, on favorable terms or at all, particularly in light of the current economic conditions. The recognition of these charges requires estimates and judgments regarding lease termination costs and other exit costs when these actions take place. Actual results may vary from these estimates. 14 Table of Contents PDI, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K We may make acquisitions in the future which may lead to disruptions to our ongoing business. Historically, we have made a number of acquisitions, and we may pursue new acquisition opportunities in the future. If we are unable to successfully integrate an acquired company, the acquisition could lead to disruptions to our business. The success of an acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to: · assimilate the operations and services or products of the acquired company; · integrate new personnel associated with the acquisition; · retain and motivate key employees; · retain customers; and · minimize the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. In the event that the operations of an acquired business do not meet our performance expectations, we may have to restructure the acquired business or write-off the value of some or all of the assets of the acquired business, including goodwill and other intangible assets identified at time of acquisition. In addition, the current market for acquisition targets in our industry is extremely competitive, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully identify, bid for and complete acquisitions necessary or desirable to achieve our goals. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may vary, which may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate. Our quarterly operating results may vary as a result of a number of factors, including: · the commencement, delay, cancellation or completion of sales and marketing programs; · regulatory developments; · uncertainty about when, if at all, revenue from any product commercialization arrangements and/or other incentive-based arrangements with our customers will be recognized; · mix of services provided and/or mix of programs during the period; · timing and amount of expenses for implementing new programs and accuracy of estimates of resources required for ongoing programs; · timing and integration of any acquisitions; · changes in regulations related to pharmaceutical companies; and · general economic conditions, including the current economic and financial crisis. In addition, in the case of revenue related to service contracts, we recognize revenue as services are performed, while program costs, other than training costs, are expensed as incurred. For all contracts, training costs are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the life of the contract to which they relate or 12 months. As a result, during the first two to three months of a new contract, we may incur substantial expenses associated with implementing that new program without recognizing any revenue under that contract. This could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and the price of our common stock for the quarters in which these expenses are incurred. For these and other reasons, we believe that quarterl y comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Fluctuations in quarterly results could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock in a manner unrelated to our long-term operating performance. Our stock price is volatile and could be further affected by events not within our control, and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The market for our common stock is volatile. During 2009, our stock traded at a low of $2.80 and a high of $6.25. In 2008, our stock traded at a low of $3.10 and a high of $9.40. The trading price of our common stock has been and will continue to be subject to: · volatility in the trading markets generally, including volatility associated with the current economic and financial crisis in the United States and worldwide; · significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · significant changes in our cash and cash equivalent reserves; · announcements regarding our business or the business of our competitors; · strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; · industry and/or regulatory developments; · changes in revenue mix; · changes in revenue and revenue growth rates for us and for our industry as a whole; 15 Table of Contents PDI, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; and · statements or changes in opinions, ratings or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the markets in which we operate or expect to operate. Our controlling stockholder continues to have effective control of us, which could delay or prevent a change in corporate control that may otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. John P. Dugan, our chairman, beneficially owns approximately 34% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Dugan is able to exercise substantial control over the election of all of our directors and to determine the outcome of most corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including a merger with or into another company, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and amendments to our certificate of incorporation. This ownership concentration will limit our stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that other stockholders do not view as beneficial, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions, such as providing for three classes of directors, which may make it more difficult to remove our directors and management and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock. This provision could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a future takeover or a change in control, unless the takeover or change in control is approved by our board of directors. We are also subject to laws that may have a similar effect. For example, section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date the person beca me an interested stockholder unless certain conditions are met. As a result of the foregoing, it will be difficult for another company to acquire us and, therefore, could limit the price that possible investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, the rights of our common stockholders will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 