ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks described below, you should consider carefully the information contained in Item 1, “Business—Regulation” and the discussion in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements. The Company’s continued success depends on the ability to manage and expand operations effectively. The Company’s ability to manage and expand operations effectively will depend on the ability to: • offer high-quality, reliable services at reasonable costs; • install and operate telecommunications switches and related equipment; • lease access to suitable transmission facilities at competitive prices; • scale operations; • obtain successful outcomes in disputes and in litigation, rule-making, legislation and regulatory proceedings; 12 • successfully negotiate, adopt or arbitrate interconnection agreements with other carriers; • acquire necessary equipment, software and facilities; • integrate existing and newly acquired technology and facilities, such as switches and related equipment; • evaluate markets; • add products; • monitor operations; • control costs; • maintain effective quality controls; • hire, train and retain qualified personnel; • enhance operating and accounting systems; • address operating challenges; adapt to market and regulatory developments; and • obtain and maintain required governmental authorizations. In order for the Company to succeed, these objectives must be achieved in a timely manner and on a cost-effective basis. If these objectives are not achieved, the Company may not be able to compete in existing markets or expand into new markets. A failure to achieve one or more of these objectives could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In addition, the Company has grown rapidly since inception and expects to continue to grow primarily by expanding our product offerings, adding and retaining customers, acquisitions and entering new markets. The Company expects this growth to place a strain on operational, human and financial resources, particularly if the growth is through acquisitions. The ability to manage operations and expansion effectively depends on the continued development of plans, systems and controls for operational, financial and management needs. The Company cannot give any assurance that these requirements can be satisfied or that the Company’s operations and growth can be managed effectively. A failure to satisfy these requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and the ability to implement fully the growth and operating plans. The Company will not be able to expand operations if capital is not available when it is needed. The development and expansion of the Company’s networks requires substantial capital investment. If this capital is not available when needed, the Company’s business could be adversely affected. Capital expenditures totaled $35.0 million in 2005 and are expected to be about the same in 2006, unless the Company’s deployment of future service offerings results in somewhat higher spending levels. The Company also expects to have similar capital expenditures in 2007 and thereafter. The Company may be required to seek additional debt or equity financing if business plans and cost estimates are not achieved; operating activities do not generate sufficient cash flow to service debt, fund capital expenditures and finance business operations; the expansion of our business and existing networks is accelerated significantly; or acquisitions or joint ventures that require incremental capital are consummated. The indenture governing our Notes and the loan and security agreement relating to our senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Facility”) limit our ability to incur additional debt. If the Company were to seek additional debt financing, the terms offered may place significant limits on our financial and operating flexibility, or may not be acceptable. The failure to raise sufficient funds through debt or equity financing on reasonable terms may require the Company to modify or significantly curtail our business plan. This could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s growth, ability to compete, and ability to service debt. If the Company makes acquisitions, it will incur additional risks that could be harmful to our business. US LEC may acquire other businesses as a means to expand into new markets, to capture additional market share, or to provide new services. The Company is unable to predict whether or when any prospective 13 acquisitions will occur or the likelihood of completing an acquisition on favorable terms and conditions. Any acquisition involves certain risks including, but not limited to: • difficulties assimilating acquired operations and personnel; • potential disruptions of the Company’s ongoing business; • the diversion of resources and management time; • the possibility that uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies may not be maintained; • risks associated with entering new markets in which the Company has little or no experience; • risks related to providing new services with which the Company has little experience; • the potential impairment of relationships with employees or customers as a result of changes in management; • difficulties in evaluating the historical or future financial performance of the acquired business; • integration of network equipment and operating support systems; • brand awareness issues related to the acquired assets or customers; and • prepayment of assumed liabilities from acquired companies. If the Company decides to make an acquisition, there can be no assurance that the Company would be able to obtain the financing on satisfactory terms or that the acquired business would perform as expected. An inability to market and develop additional services may adversely affect the Company’s ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers. The Company currently offers local, long distance, data, Internet and other telecommunications services. In order to address the future needs of our customers, we will be required to market and develop additional services. We may not be able to continue to provide the range of telecommunication services that our customers need or desire. We may lose some of our customers or be unable to attract new customers if we cannot offer the services our customers need or desire. The Company faces intense competition that could adversely affect its business. The market for telecommunications services is highly competitive. The Company is an integrated telecommunications carrier that primarily provides voice, data and Internet services to mid- to large-sized business class customers throughout most of the eastern United States. The Company competes, and will continue to compete, with current and potential market entrants, including: • long-distance carriers, or IXCs; • incumbent local exchange carriers, or ILECs; • other competitive local exchange carriers, or CLECs; • competitive access providers, or CAPS; • cable television companies; • electric utilities; • microwave carriers; • wireless telephone system operators; • private networks built by large end-users; and • VoIP providers. In addition, the possibility of combinations and strategic alliances in the telecommunications industry could give rise to significant new competitors. Moreover, some competitors have emerged from the protection of Chapter 11 with dramatically altered financial structures that could give those entities the ability to offer 14 more competitive rates than the Company can. Increased competition is also expected from wireless service and VoIP providers as those technologies improve, both from new competitors and as those technologies are adopted by existing carriers as well. The Company believes that its network, service offerings and customer-focused approach is what distinguishes us from competitors. However, many of the Company’s current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, personnel and other resources, including brand name recognition and long-standing relationships with customers. Many also own their own transport and local loop facilities, and the Company depends on regulations or the willingness of some competitors to lease those facilities to the Company. These resources may place the Company at a competitive disadvantage in existing markets and may impair our ability to expand into new markets, which could adversely affect the Company’s business. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully in existing markets or in new markets. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect the Company’s operations and growth. The loss of the services of the Company’s chief executive officer, or other senior officers could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business and prospects. None of these officers has an employment agreement, nor does the Company maintain key man life insurance on any of its officers. The competition for qualified managers in the telecommunications industry is intense. The Company may not be able to hire and retain necessary personnel in the future to replace any of its key officers or key employees. In addition, hiring and retaining additional qualified managerial, sales and technical personnel is critical to the Company’s success. Since inception, the Company has experienced significant competition in hiring and retaining personnel possessing necessary skills and telecommunications experience. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to hire and retain qualified personnel in the future. A failure to manage processes and systems for ordering, provisioning and billing effectively, or the failure of third parties to deliver these services on a timely and accurate basis, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to retain existing customers or to attract and retain new customers. The Company has processes and procedures and is working with external vendors, including the ILECs, to implement customer orders for services, the provisioning, installation and delivery of services and monthly billing for those services. The failure to effectively manage processes and systems for these service elements or the failure of underlying vendors, including ILECs, to deliver ordering, provisioning, billing or repair services on a timely, cost efficient and accurate basis could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to retain our existing customers or attract and retain new customers, which also would impact adversely the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. A failure to operate switches and other network equipment successfully could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations and the ability to attract and retain customers or to enter additional markets. The provision of voice, data and internet services is essential to the Company’s current strategy. If the switches and associated equipment necessary to operate our network, or the networks operated by our underlying carriers, experience technological or operational problems, or are affected by natural or man-made disasters, that cannot be resolved in a satisfactory or timely manner, the Company’s ability to retain customers or to attract new ones would be adversely affected which also would impact adversely the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. We and other industry participants are frequently involved in disputes over issues that are important to our financial and operational success. Further legislation and regulatory rulemaking is expected to occur as the industry continues to deregulate and as we enter new markets or offer new products. Rulings or legislation adverse to us could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial well being. The deregulation of the telecommunications industry, the implementation of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (“Telecom Act”) and the distress of many carriers in the wake of the downturn in the telecommunications industry have involved numerous industry participants, including the Company, in disputes, lawsuits, proceedings and arbitrations before state and federal regulatory commissions, private arbitration organizations such as the American Arbitration Association, and courts over many issues important to the financial and operational success of the Company. These issues include the interpretation and 15 enforcement of existing interconnection agreements and tariffs, the terms of new interconnection agreements, operating performance obligations, inter-carrier compensation, access rates applicable to different categories of traffic (including traffic originating from or terminating to cellular or wireless users), the jurisdiction of traffic for inter-carrier compensation purposes, the services and facilities available to the Company, the price the Company will pay for those services and facilities and the regulatory treatment of new technologies and services. We anticipate that the Company will continue to be involved in various disputes, lawsuits, arbitrations and proceedings over these and other material issues. The Company anticipates also that further legislative and regulatory rulemaking will occur—on the federal and state level—as the industry deregulates and as the Company enters new markets or offers new products. Rulings adverse to the Company, adverse legislation, new regulations or changes in governmental policy on issues material to the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of its operations. There are significant uncertainties about the future availability and pricing of unbundled network elements and related elements from incumbent local exchange carriers. On December 15, 2004, the FCC adopted an order establishing new rules for Unbundled Network Elements (“UNEs”) (“Triennial Review Remand Order” or “TRRO”). In the TRRO the FCC removed, under certain circumstances, an ILEC’s obligation to unbundle high capacity local loops and dedicated transport and eliminated the obligation to provide access to unbundled local switching and dark fiber loops, which are no longer available as UNEs. In addition to establishing an impairment framework, the FCC limited the number of unbundled high capacity loops and transport circuits that may be obtained from the ILEC even in areas in which unbundling remains. The FCC held that UNE loops cannot be provisioned to provide exclusively mobile wireless services or stand-alone long distance services. Other than the foregoing restrictions and certain other restrictions on high capacity EELs or commingled circuits, no further restrictions were placed on the use of UNE loops. Also the FCC concluded that carriers may continue to convert special access circuits to UNEs or EELs. The Company cannot predict the ultimate effect the TRRO will have in the near future. However, the vast majority of our customers’ circuits currently are not UNE-based; rather, the Company has continued to lease the majority of customer circuits and other transport facilities either from ILECs at their special access pricing or from other carriers. Thus, while the FCC’s decision to permit, but limit, the availability of UNE loops and transport will not, in and of itself, have a material adverse impact on the Company, it ultimately could remove a significant opportunity for future cost-savings unless the Company is able to avoid the impact of the caps by purchasing either loops or transport from other carriers at competitive prices. While not directly related, the elimination of some UNEs, and the limitations on others could lead the ILECs to attempt to increase the costs for special access, which the Company would oppose. The elimination of, or higher prices for UNEs, combined with increases in prices for special access could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The FCC has undertaken a review of Special Access pricing which, if decided adversely to us, could have an adverse impact on the prices we pay for components of our network. Along with the release of the TRRO, the FCC also released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“NPRM”) to initiate a comprehensive review of rules governing the pricing of special access service offered by ILECs subject to price cap regulation. Special access pricing by these carriers currently is subject to price cap rules as well as pricing flexibility rules which permit these carriers to offer volume and term discounts and contract tariffs (Phase I pricing flexibility) and remove special access service in a defined geographic area from price caps regulation (Phase II pricing flexibility) based on showings of competition. The NPRM tentatively concludes to continue to permit pricing flexibility where competitive market forces are sufficient to constrain special access prices, but will undertake an examination of whether the current triggers for pricing flexibility (based on certain levels of collocation by competitors within the defined geographic area) accurately assess competition and have worked as intended. The NPRM also asks for comment on whether certain aspects of ILEC special access tariff offerings, some of which are particularly important to the Company (e.g., basing discounts on previous volumes of service; tying nonrecurring charges and termination penalties to term commitments; and imposing use restrictions in connection with discounts), are unreasonable. Given the early phase of the proceeding, the Company cannot predict the impact, if any, the NPRM will have on the Company’s network cost structure; however, if any of the matters addressed in the NPRM are decided adversely to the Company, it could result in increased prices for special access which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to purchase special access at competitive prices. The outcome of pending rule-making proceedings addressing the proper framework for all intercarrier compensation could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. 16 On February 10, 2005, the FCC released a Further NPRM in the Unified Intercarrier Compensation docket. The FCC had been expected to resolve a number of pending petitions addressing various compensation matters, but did not do so. Instead, the FCC simply announced that it is seeking comment on seven comprehensive reform proposals submitted by the industry in order to develop a compensation framework that will address the four common themes for reform that had emerged from the record: (1) encouraging efficient competition and the use of the network; (2) preserving universal service support; (3) fostering technological and competitive neutrality; and (4) minimizing regulatory intervention and enforcement. The Company cannot predict the impact, if any, the FNPRM will have on the Company’s intercarrier compensation revenue. An adverse outcome in pending litigation with an IXC involving access charges, if ultimately successful, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In January 2005, the Company filed suit against Qwest Communications Corporation (“Qwest”) in the U.S. District Court in North Carolina for collection of unpaid interstate and intrastate access charges. Qwest filed a counterclaim alleging breach of contract, unjust enrichment, fraud, negligent misrepresentation and breach of North Carolina’s Unfair and Deceptive Trade Practices Act based on the Company’s billing for wireless traffic. The Company has filed a motion to dismiss Qwest’s fraud, negligent misrepresentation and North Carolina’s Unfair and Deceptive Trade Practices Act claims, which is pending before the Court. The Company disputes Qwest’s practice of withholding partial payments and, further, believes that its access billing was and remains consistent with industry practice as reflected in the FCC’s Eighth Report and Order and the Company’s tariffs. The Company intends to continue to defend vigorously against Qwest’s challenges to its billing of access charges and to pursue vigorously collection of unpaid access charges. However, at this time, the Company cannot predict when or how the dispute with Qwest will be resolved. Qwest’s suit, if ultimately resolved unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The inability to negotiate new interconnection agreements, or extensions or replacements of existing interconnection agreements, on acceptable terms and conditions could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company has agreements for the interconnection of its networks with the networks of the ILECs covering each market in which US LEC has a switching platform. These agreements also provide the framework for service to our customers when other local carriers are involved. The Company may be required to negotiate new interconnection agreements to enter new markets in the future. In addition, the Company will be required to negotiate amendments to, extensions of, or replacements for existing interconnection agreements as they expire. The Company may not be able to successfully negotiate amendments to existing agreements, negotiate new interconnection agreements, renew our existing interconnection agreements, adopt new agreements or successfully arbitrate replacement agreements for interconnection on terms and conditions acceptable to the Company. An inability to do so would adversely affect the Company’s existing operations and opportunities to grow the business in existing and new markets. System disruptions could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause the Company to lose customers. The Company’s success ultimately depends on providing reliable service. Although the Company’s network has been designed to minimize the possibility of service disruptions or other outages, it may be disrupted by problems in the network, such as equipment failures and problems with a competitor’s or vendor’s system, such as physical damage to telephone lines or power surges and outages. Any disruption in the Company’s network could cause the loss of customers and result in additional expenses. The interest expense associated with the Notes will reduce the cash available to fund our operations, execute our growth strategy and repay the principal amount of the Notes. We had approximately $30.7 million of cash on hand at December 31, 2005 which, together with cash we expect to generate from operations in future periods, will be available to fund our capital expenditures, working capital requirements and growth plans. We will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay interest semi-annually on the Notes. This will reduce the cash flow available to fund future capital expenditures, working capital requirements and our growth strategy. The use of cash to pay interest on the Notes could also: 17 • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and adverse changes in governmental regulations; • limit our flexibility to plan for, and react to, changes in our business; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and • limit our ability to accumulate cash to satisfy our obligations to repay the outstanding principal amount of the Notes in 2009. These risks may be accentuated by increases in interest rates that affect the variable interest rate on the Notes. The indenture relating to the Notes and the loan and security agreement relating to our Revolving Facility contain restrictive covenants that may limit the Company’s flexibility, and a breach of any of the covenants may cause the Company to be in default under either or both of these instruments. The indenture relating to the Notes, along with the loan and security agreement relating to the Revolving Facility, limits, and in some circumstances prohibits, the Company from, among other things: • incurring additional debt; • paying dividends; • making investments or other restricted payments; • engaging in sale-leaseback transactions; • engaging in transactions with stockholders and affiliates; • guaranteeing debts; • creating liens; • selling assets; • issuing or selling capital stock of subsidiaries; and • engaging in mergers and acquisitions. These restrictions could limit the Company’s ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. In addition, if the Company does not comply with these covenants, the Notes and/or outstanding amounts under the Revolving Facility could become immediately due and payable. If this should occur, the Company might not have sufficient assets to repay the Notes and/or outstanding amounts under the Revolving Facility. We may not have the cash or access to alternative sources of financing to redeem our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Preferred Stock”) in April of 2010. We are obligated to repay $150 million to the holders of the Notes in October 2009, and the Revolving Facility expires in August 2009. In addition, we are obligated to pay the holders of the Preferred Stock a redemption price of $364 million in April 2010. If we are unable to redeem all of the Preferred Stock, the holders will be entitled to appoint a majority of the members of our Board of Directors and effectively take control of the Company. Currently, the holders of the Preferred Stock are affiliates of Thomas H. Lee Partners, L.P. and Bain Capital, Inc. Management expects to satisfy current and future capital requirements primarily with current cash balances and cash flow from operations and further expects to be able either to repay or refinance the Notes, repay the Revolving Facility and redeem the Preferred Stock from other sources, including additional borrowing and/or the sale of additional equity or debt securities, in addition to cash flow from operations. However, we may not have the cash or access to the cash, through borrowing or the issuance of equity or debt securities, to repay the Notes, pay off any amounts due under the Revolving Facility or redeem all the Preferred Stock in 2010. The interests of the holders of the Company’s Preferred Stock may not be aligned with the interests of the Company’s common stockholders. As of December 31, 2005, affiliates of Thomas H. Lee Partners, L.P. (the “THL Investors”) and Bain Capital, LLC (the “Bain Investors”) held 281,513 shares of the Company’s Preferred Stock and controlled in the aggregate, on an as-if-converted basis, approximately 24% of the voting power of the Company’s common stock. Consequently, these equity holders can exert significant influence over the Company’s affairs and policies. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of these equity holders could be in conflict with the interests of the Company’s common stockholders. In addition, under the terms of the Preferred Stock and a 18 corporate governance agreement we have with the THL Investors and the Bain Investors, they or their representatives have the right to approve a number of actions we may propose to take, including the issuance of another series of preferred stock, the issuance of convertible debt securities, the incurrence of more than $200 million of indebtedness or a business combination between us and another company. These approval rights may limit our ability to take actions that may be in the best interests of our common stockholders. 