Item 1A Risk Factors 14 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 26 Item 2 Properties 26 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 28 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 30 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 43 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 68 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 68 Item 9B Other Information 68 PART III Item 10 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 68 Item 11 Executive Compensation 69 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 69 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 69 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 69 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 69 Signatures 71 EXHIBIT 10.1 EXHIBIT 10.25 EXHIBIT 21.1 EXHIBIT 23.1 EXHIBIT 31.1 EXHIBIT 31.2 EXHIBIT 32.1 EXHIBIT 32.2 1 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 based on current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and our management’s beliefs and assumptions. When used in this Form 10-K and elsewhere, the words “believes,” “plans,” “estimates,” “intends,” “anticipates,” “seeks” and “expects” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from those anticipated or expressed in such statements as a result of a variety of factors, including those set forth under Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to the following: • The development of the smart device market and our ability to address its opportunities and challenges; • The adoption of Windows CE, Windows XP Embedded, Pocket PC and Smartphone as operating systems of choice for many smart device hardware and software applications vendors; • Our business plan and our strategy for implementing our plan; • Our ability to expand our strategic relationships with hardware and software vendors; • Our ability to maintain our relationship with Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft); • Our ability to address challenges and opportunities in the international marketplace; • Our ability to develop our technology and expand our proprietary software and service offerings; and • Our anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements, including our ability to meet our anticipated cash needs. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Readers, however, should carefully review the factors set forth in this and other reports or documents that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 2 Table of Contents BUSINESS Overview As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, “we,” “us” and “our” refer to BSQUARE Corporation. We provide software and professional engineering services to the smart device marketplace. A smart device is a dedicated purpose computing device that typically has the ability to display information, runs an operating system (e.g., Microsoft® Windows® CE) and may be connected to a network via a wired or wireless connection. Examples of smart devices that we target include set-top boxes, home gateways, point-of-sale terminals, kiosks, voting machines, gaming platforms, personal digital assistants (PDAs), personal media players and smartphones. We focus on smart devices that utilize embedded versions of the Microsoft Windows family of operating systems, specifically Windows CE, Windows XP Embedded and Windows Mobiletm for Pocket PC and Smartphone. We have been providing software and engineering services to the smart device marketplace since our inception. Our customers include original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), original design manufacturers (ODMs), device component suppliers such as silicon vendors (SVs) and enterprises with customized device needs such as retailers and wireless operators that market and distribute connected smart devices. The software and engineering services we provide our customers are utilized throughout various phases of our customers’ device life cycles, including design, development, customization, quality assurance and deployment. Until mid-2004, we were also in the business of manufacturing and distributing our own proprietary hardware device, called the Power Handheld, which was sold to telecommunication carriers. During the second quarter of 2004, we decided to discontinue this hardware business and end the manufacturing of the device. The hardware business segment is reported as a discontinued operation in our financial results. We were incorporated in the State of Washington in July 1994. Our principal office is located at 110 110th Avenue NE, Suite 200, Bellevue, Washington 98004, and our telephone number is (425) 519-5900. Industry Background The increasing need for connectivity among both business and consumer users is driving demand for easy-to-use, cost-effective and customizable methods of electronic communication. Although the personal computer (PC) has been the traditional means of electronically connecting suppliers, partners and customers, the benefits of “smart devices” have led to their rapid adoption as a new class of powerful technology. Smart devices are particularly attractive to businesses and consumers because they are often less expensive than desktop and laptop computers; have adaptable configurations, including size, weight and shape; and are able to support a variety of customized applications and user interfaces that can be designed for specific tasks. These devices also are typically compatible with existing business information systems. The smart device industry is characterized by a wide variety of hardware configurations and end-user applications, often designed to address a specific vertical market. To accommodate these diverse characteristics in a cost-effective manner, OEMs and ODMs require operating systems that can be integrated with a diverse set of smart devices and can support an expanding range of industry-specific functionality, content and applications. The Microsoft Windows family of operating systems — specifically Windows CE, Windows XP Embedded and Windows Mobile technologies — helps satisfy these requirements because it leverages the existing industry-wide base of Microsoft Windows developers and technology standards, can be customized to operate across a variety of smart devices and integrate with existing information systems, offers Internet connectivity, and reduces systems requirements compared to traditional PC operating systems. 3 Table of Contents The smart device marketplace is being influenced by the following factors: • A growing macro economy and increase in information technology (IT) spending has influenced new project starts. For example, many retailers that avoided major infrastructure investments over the past few years are now investing in upgrading their point-of-sale (POS) systems and back-end infrastructure; • The ubiquity of cellular and WLAN wireless networks is driving rapid adoption of smart devices that leverage broadband and high-speed wireless data networks, including Internet Protocol (IP) set-top boxes, voice-over-IP (VoIP) phones, residential gateways, and home networking solutions linking smart devices with PCs; • The baseline expectation for device functionality continues to grow. Users of smart devices expect to be able to access email and the Internet and synchronize their devices with corporate data sources. Microsoft operating systems are already well positioned to leverage this trend with built-in synchronization capabilities, access to Exchange email servers, and similar functionality; • Security is becoming an increasingly important concern as devices are able to access networks and locally store sensitive information such as email, spreadsheets and other documents. Users are demanding that these types of information be protected in the same ways they are protected on the desktop; and • Higher bandwidth networks coupled with the larger displays and increased processing power found on new devices means that more multi-media content will be available to devices — increasing demand for digital rights management, content management and related technologies. Software and Service Solutions for Smart Device Makers We have been providing software and engineering service solutions to the smart device marketplace since our inception and are considered a leader in our field. Our customers include world class OEMs and ODMs, device component suppliers such as SVs and peripheral vendors and enterprises with customized device needs such as retailers and field service organizations. Representative customer relationships in 2005 included: • The Motorola WLAN Subscriber group engaged us to assist in the development and testing of the CN620 mobile office phone, a converged WAN/ VoIP phone, and its successors; • Palm, Inc. engaged us to provide consulting services for the Treo700w series of smartphones; • Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) engaged us to create a BSP for AMD’s Alchemy line of microprocessors; • Intel Corporation (Intel) engaged us to assist in the development of a series of BSPs in support of various processors; • Sharp Microelectronics of the Americas (Sharp) engaged us to create a series of BSPs and other technology components for Sharp hardware reference designs; • A large Asian OEM engaged us to assist in the development of a new line of Pocket PC based handheld devices; • A large North American OEM engaged us to assist in developing several Windows CE-based platforms and applications aimed at automotive applications; • Over 75 OEMs and SVs — including Dell, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company (HP), Intel, Matsushita Electric Works (MEW), Motorola, Inc., Sharp Electronics Corp., Texas Instruments, Symbol Technologies, Inc. and Toshiba America, Inc. — licensed our SDIO Now! technology in 2005 or prior for integration into their smart devices; and 4 Table of Contents • Several Taiwanese ODMs engaged us to assist them in creating Pocket PC and Windows CE- based handheld and tablet devices. We offer a range of software products to our customers for the development and deployment of smart devices, including both those of third parties and our own proprietary software products, along with engineering service offerings. Our goal is to increase the breadth and depth of our software and engineering service offerings to smart device customers to enhance our position as an overall solutions provider. Third-Party Software Products We have multiple license and distribution agreements with third-party software vendors. Our ability to resell these third-party software products, as stand-alone products or in conjunction with our own proprietary software and engineering service offerings, provides our customers with a significant source for their smart device project needs. Our third-party software offerings include the following: • We are a Microsoft authorized Value-Added Provider (VAP) of Windows Embedded operating systems (OS) and toolkits for Windows CE, Windows XP/NT Embedded, Windows XP Professional with Embedded Restriction, Windows XP Embedded for Point of Sale and Microsoft “Classic” operating systems with Embedded restrictions, including DOS and Windows 98/2000/ ME/NT. The majority of our revenue in 2005 was earned through the resale of Microsoft Embedded operating systems; and • We sub-license and resell other third-party software such as the Esmertec Jeode Java Virtual Machine (JVM) under our JEM-CEtm brand name, the Sygate Technologies, Inc. Personal Firewall, Datalight Inc.’s FlashFX and Reliance products. Proprietary Software Products Our proprietary software offerings include: • SDIO Now! — SDIO (Secure Digital Input Output) is an industry standard format that allows very small form-factor peripheral and memory cards to be used with smart devices. Our SDIO Now! solution has become the industry standard software development kit used by OEMs, ODMs and peripheral vendors who are creating SDIO solutions for smart devices running Microsoft Windows CE, Pocket PC and Smartphone operating systems. There are currently over 100 licensees of our SDIO technology. We released an updated version of our SDIO software, SDIO Now! 2.1 during 2005 in response to customer demand and the changing technology landscape affecting secure digital (SD) technology. The new functionality included features requested by licensees such as support for larger SD memory cards, higher performance and other capabilities. SDIO Now! 2.2, launched in January 2006, offers our customers a cost-effective solution for adding two MultiMediaCard (MMC), SD or SDIO cards to converged devices. OEMs can now economically add Wi-Fi capabilities to smartphones and other embedded devices by using an internal SDIO Wi-Fi card while adding a second external expansion slot for high-density memory cards or other SDIO peripherals. In the fourth quarter of 2005, we also introduced SDIO Now! for the Linux operating system. We have historically only provided the SDIO Now! product for devices running Windows CE and Windows Mobile operating systems and now with a Linux-based product available, we have increased the addressable market for this product. Microsoft has incorporated our SDIO Now! v1.0 technology into its CE 5.0 and Windows Mobile 5.0 operating systems. While the SDIO Now! 2.0 version of software has functionality and performance enhancements not found in the SDIO Now! v1.0, there can be no assurance that the inclusion of the SDIO Now! v1.0 software in the base Microsoft operating system will not have a detrimental effect on sales of the SDIO Now! v2.0 software in the future; 5 Table of Contents • Portable Media Player (PMP) — PMP is a digital media-management and player software solution based on Microsoft® Windows® CE 5.0 that enables OEMs to quickly enter the growing market for PMP players, a new product category that enables consumers to enjoy movies and video clips, view family photos, and listen to music on a single mobile device; • Our DevkitIDP line of Intel® XScale® Technology-based development platforms accelerate time to market for OEMs building Windows CE 5.0 and Windows Mobile 5.0 embedded devices. We currently ship DevkitIDP 255, acquired from Vibren in August 2005. The DevkitIDP 255 is based on the Intel PXA255 Embedded Processor. In 2006, we plan to launch DevkitIDP 270 based on the next-generation Intel PXA270 Embedded Processor, as well as future DevkitIDP offerings based on future Intel processors. Our DevkitIDP products uniquely offer a wide variety of peripheral chips and multiple expansion slots, which provides developers valuable flexibility in the early stages of development when device functionality is being validated. The DevkitIDP product layout is optimized so developers can quickly access hardware test points which shortens debug time; • Our SchemaBSP tool, acquired from Vibren Technologies, Inc. (Vibren) in August 2005, reduces customer development efforts. SchemaBSP offers a revolutionary three-step process that, when used in conjunction with Microsoft Platform Builder, reduces Windows CE board bring up time by up to 40%. Once an initial BSP is created with SchemaBSP, the architecture of the tool enables code reuse across multiple product lines, easy BSP updates when new hardware features are added to a design, and quick migration to new OS versions of Windows CE; and • Universal serial bus (USB) interfaces Software revenue for the last three fiscal years was as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total software revenue $ 31,210 $ 28,364 $ 28,163 Software revenue as a percentage of total revenue 73 % 73 % 75 % Third-party software revenue as a percentage of total software revenue 92 % 90 % 89 % Resales of Microsoft Embedded operating systems and related products accounted for substantially all of our third-party software revenue. Engineering Service Offerings We provide Windows Embedded and Windows Mobile smart device makers with consulting and professional engineering services including: • Device solution strategy consulting; • Software and hardware design and development services; • Systems integration; • Application development; • Quality assurance; • Customer technical support; and • Platform development training. Customers utilize our engineering service offerings because our deep experience with Windows Embedded operating systems typically results in shorter development cycles and reduced time to market, 6 Table of Contents lower overall costs to complete projects, and product robustness and features the customer may have been unable to achieve through other means. Revenue from professional engineering services for the last three fiscal years was as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Total service revenue $ 11,713 $ 10,556 $ 9,379 Service revenue as a percentage of total revenue 27 % 27 % 25 % Revenue from discontinued Microsoft tools consulting $ 167 $ 460 $ 974 The Microsoft tools consulting revenue recognized in 2004 and 2005 relates to the amortization of previously signed support contracts. We are not actively providing tools consulting services to Microsoft or any other customers. Strategy Our strategy is to continue to enhance our position as a leading provider of smart device software and engineering service solutions. To advance this strategy, we intend to focus on the following areas: • Enhance our proprietary software product portfolio to generate additional revenue, particularly higher margin revenue, which will have the added benefit of increasing opportunities to sell additional engineering services and third-party software products to our customers. During 2005, we increased our level of research and development in conjunction with the SDIO Now! version releases mentioned previously as well as the initiation of our PMP and other reference design development efforts. We are continuing to execute and evolve our product strategy and expect to continue to invest in new product development initiatives during 2006; • Provide our North American customers of Windows Embedded operating systems with additional product offerings as they become available from Microsoft. For example, in early 2005, Microsoft made available to its authorized distributors the Window Embedded Point of Sale operating system which is targeted at retail and point-of-sale customers as well as Windows XP Professional with Embedded Restrictions for embedded customers whose needs are more suited to the full-version of Windows XP Professional; • Expand our engineering service offerings by adding new packaged engineering services, training and custom consulting offerings; • Leverage the significant number of customers gained through our resale of Microsoft Embedded operating systems by selling these customers additional software and service offerings. In each quarter, we typically sell Microsoft Embedded operating systems to approximately 300 unique customers. Today, very few of these customers purchase service or software offerings other than the core Microsoft Embedded operating systems; and • Increase the percentage of sales derived from our international customers, particularly by focusing on growing sales through our Taiwan and Japan subsidiaries. A key element of our strategy is the expansion of our proprietary products that we license to our smart device customers. We believe that the continuing complexity and demands of device development will require our customers to seek out companies that are able to provide more complete device software solutions that can be quickly customized and brought to market. 7 Table of Contents Relationship with Microsoft and Impact on our Smart Device Solutions Business We have a long-standing relationship with Microsoft and this relationship is critical to the continuing success of our business. Our credentials as a Microsoft partner include: • We are one of Microsoft’s largest distributors of embedded operating systems worldwide; • We are a Windows Embedded Gold-level Systems Integrator; • We are a provider of Microsoft Official Curriculum Training for Windows CE and Windows XP Embedded; • We are a leading systems integrator for Microsoft’s Windows Mobile for Smartphone and Pocket PC-based device development projects; • We are a Preferred Provider of Visual Tools to Microsoft; • We are a Gold-level member of Microsoft’s Third Party Tools Provider Program; • We are an authorized Microsoft Windows CE for Automotive Solutions Integrator; and • We have been engaged by Microsoft on various service engagements. We work closely with Microsoft executives, developers, and product managers. We leverage these relationships in a variety of ways, including: • We gain early access to new Microsoft embedded software and other technologies; • We are able to leverage co-marketing resources from Microsoft, including market development funds, to support our own marketing and sales efforts; • We participate in Microsoft-sponsored trade shows, seminars, and other events; • We receive sales leads from Microsoft that enable us to sell our smart device software and service solutions; • We receive certain rebates based upon certain predefined objectives and our Microsoft Embedded operating systems sales volume; and • We participate in Windows Embedded and Windows Mobile design reviews, enabling early access to product roadmap information wherein we provide important technical and customer feedback. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for more information regarding our relationship with Microsoft. Customers Customers of our smart device software and engineering service offerings include leading OEMs, ODMs, enterprises, SVs and peripheral vendors seeking to leverage the benefits of embedded Windows-based operating systems to develop high-quality, full-featured smart devices that meet the requirements of numerous end-markets. In 2004, our largest customer was Cardinal Healthcare Systems (Cardinal). Substantially all of our sales to Cardinal were of Microsoft Embedded operating systems. On March 4, 2005, we were notified by Cardinal that they would begin purchasing from one of our competitors and discontinue purchasing from us no later than the second quarter of 2005. Cardinal represented 19%, or $7.4 million, of our total revenue in 2004. Cardinal also represented 7%, or $590,000, of our total gross profit for this same period. There were no other customers accounting for more than 10% of total revenue in 2005 or 2004. Other representative customers include Microsoft, HP, Motorola, HTC Corporation, Compal Electronics, Inc., MiTAC International Corp., Texas Instruments, Sharp, Intel and AMD. Sales and Marketing We market our smart device software and engineering services to OEMs, ODMs, enterprises, SVs and peripheral vendors predominantly through our direct sales force located in the United States, Taipei, 8 Table of Contents Taiwan and Tokyo, Japan. We do not make significant use of resellers, channel partners, representative agents or other indirect channels. Key elements of our sales and marketing strategy include direct marketing, advertising, event marketing, public relations, customer and strategic alliance partner co-marketing programs and a comprehensive website. We rely significantly on lead referral and other marketing support programs from strategic partners, particularly Microsoft. Research and Development Our research and development teams are responsible for the design, development and release of our software products. Members of our research and development staff work closely with our sales and marketing departments, as well as with our customers and potential customers, to better understand market needs and requirements. We perform our research and development utilizing our own engineering staff in Bellevue, Washington, Akron, Ohio, and Taipei, Taiwan as well as engineering personnel of a partner in Hydrabad, India. Competition We face competition primarily from the following: • Our current and potential customers’ internal research and development departments, which may seek to develop their own proprietary products and solutions that compete with our proprietary software products and engineering services; • North American engineering service firms such as Intrinsyc, CalAmp, Vanteon and Teleca; • Off-shore development companies, particularly those focused on the North American marketplace; • Contract manufacturers who are adding software development capabilities to their offerings; and • Microsoft Embedded operating system distributors such as Arrow, Avnet and Bell Microsystems. Larger customers of Microsoft Embedded operating systems are typically knowledgeable of the competing distributors in the North American market and, consequently, will often put large orders out to bid amongst the distributors, which can create margin pressure and make it difficult to maintain long-term relationships with customers who purchase only Microsoft Embedded operating systems from us. As we develop new offerings, particularly our own proprietary software products, we may begin competing with companies with which we have not previously competed. We have observed, for example, that at least one large contract manufacturer, Flextronics, has been acquiring embedded software expertise in order to enhance its manufacturing services offerings. We compete principally on the basis of the breadth of our product and service offerings, the depth of our technical experience, the quality of our products and professional engineering services, and the strength of our strategic partner relationships. Particularly in the areas of engineering services and the resale of Microsoft Embedded operating systems, price has become an increasingly important competitive factor. International Operations Historically, we have had multiple operational presences outside the United States, but we have scaled back our foreign operations in recent years. During 2005, our international operations consisted principally of a subsidiary and operations in Taipei, Taiwan. Because our OEM Distribution Agreement with Microsoft restricts our resale of Microsoft Embedded operating systems to North America, including Mexico, our foreign operations have traditionally focused on the sale of our own proprietary software products, particularly SDIO Now!, and professional engineering services. In the fourth quarter of 2005, we re-established a direct sales presence in Tokyo, Japan. We intend to continue to rebuild our ability to sell our products and services in Japan during 2006. We also formalized and expanded our partnership with an 9 Table of Contents engineering services firm in Hydrabad, India during 2005 although there are no commitments in terms of the utilization of those resources. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for more information regarding our international operations. Personnel As of December 31, 2005, we had 124 employees, including 68 employees in professional engineering services, 9 employees in research and product development, and 47 employees in sales, marketing and administrative services. Of these employees, 112 are located in the United States and 12 are located in Taiwan. In addition, from time to time, we employ temporary employees and consultants and contractors. As of December 31, 2005, we employed 31 contractors compared to 7 at December 31, 2004. In February 2006, we established a subsidiary in Vancouver, Canada and have hired four employees there to support our professional engineering services. The following highlights the number of employees by area: December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Professional Engineering Services 68 59 65 Research and Product Development 9 7 32 Sales, Marketing and Administrative 47 48 51 Total 124 114 148 As conditions necessitate, periodically professional engineering service employees will perform research and development engineering and visa versa. Intellectual Property and Other Proprietary Rights Our intellectual property is critical to our success. In general, we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and contractual arrangements. There can, however, be no assurance that our efforts will be effective to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property, or to prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to, or competitive with those developed by us. Additionally, because a significant portion of our revenue relates to the resale of third-party software products, we are also reliant on our partners, particularly Microsoft, to appropriately protect their own intellectual property. We currently have a number of pending U.S. and international patent applications. We have 19 issued patents worldwide and a number of registered trademarks. We will continue to pursue appropriate protections for our intellectual property. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for more information regarding our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Acquisitions On June 30, 2005, we acquired the embedded assets of Vibren for $500,000 in cash. In return we received two products: Schema, a tool for rapidly creating and deploying BSPs and DevKitIDP a reference design based upon the Intel PXA255 processor. In addition, we acquired a number of in-process service contracts and Vibren’s embedded customer list, and we hired eight experienced employees. As we have stated previously, acquisition and partnership activities will be part of our future growth strategy. 10 Table of Contents Available Information We are a reporting company and file annual, quarterly and current reports and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. You also may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information we file electronically with the SEC at (http://www.sec.gov). Our Internet website can be found at www.bsquare.com. We make available free of charge through our investor relations section, under “SEC Filings,” all our filings, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Directors and Executive Officers The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our directors and executive officers as of February 28, 2006. Name Age Position Donald B. Bibeault 64 Chairman of the Board Brian T. Crowley 45 President and Chief Executive Officer, Director Elwood D. Howse, Jr. 66 Director Elliott H. Jurgensen, Jr. 61 Director Scot E. Land 51 Director William D. Savoy 41 Director Kendra A. VanderMeulen 54 Director Carey E. Butler 51 Vice President, Professional Engineering Services Pawan Gupta 52 Vice President of Product Management and Marketing Scott C. Mahan 41 Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer; Secretary and Treasurer Larry C. Stapleton 43 Vice President, North American Sales Donald B. Bibeault has been our Chairman of the Board since July 2003. His term of office as a director expires at the 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Mr. Bibeault is currently President of Bibeault & Associates, Inc. a turnaround-consulting firm, a position he has held since 1975. During that period, Mr. Bibeault has served as chairman, chief executive officer, or chief operating officer of numerous corporations, including Pacific States Steel, PLM International, Best Pipe and Steel, Inc., Ironstone Group, Inc., American National Petroleum, Inc., Tyler-Dawson Supply and Iron Oak Supply Corporation. He has also served as special turnaround advisor to the CEOs of Silicon Graphics Inc., Varity Corporation, Bank of America and Yipes Networks. He has been a member of the Board of Overseers of Columbia Business School, a trustee of Golden Gate University, a member of the University of Rhode Island Business Advisory Board, and the Board of Visitors of Golden Gate University Law School. Mr. Bibeault received a B.S. in electrical engineering from the University of Rhode Island, a M.B.A. from Columbia University and a PhD from Golden Gate University. He is also a recipient of a Doctor of Laws degree (honoris causa) from Golden Gate University Law School. Brian T. Crowley has been our President and Chief Executive Officer since July 2003. His term of office as a director expires at the 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. From April 2002 to July 2003, Mr. Crowley served as our Vice President, Product Development. From December 1999 to November 2001, Mr. Crowley held various positions at DataChannel, a market leader in enterprise portals, including Vice President of Engineering and Vice President of Marketing. From April 1999 to December 1999, 11 Table of Contents Mr. Crowley was Vice President, Operations of Consortio, a software company. From December 1997 to April 1999, Mr. Crowley was Director of Development at Sequel Technology, a network solutions provider. From 1986 to December 1997, Mr. Crowley held various positions at Applied Microsystems Corporation, including Vice President and General Manager of the Motorola products and quality assurance divisions. Mr. Crowley also serves as a director of the WSA (formerly Washington Software Association). Mr. Crowley holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Arizona State University. Elwood D. Howse, Jr. has been a director of BSQUARE since November 2002. His current term of office as a director expires at this year’s Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Mr. Howse was formerly President of Cable & Howse Ventures, a Northwest venture capital management firm formed in 1977. Mr. Howse also participated in the founding of Cable, Howse and Ragen, investment banking and stock brokerage firm, today owned by Wells Fargo and known as Ragen MacKenzie. Mr. Howse has served as corporate director and advisor to various public, private and non-profit enterprises. He served on the board of the National Venture Capital Association and is past President of the Stanford Business School Alumni Association. He currently serves on the boards of directors of Formotus, Inc., MicroPlanet Ltd., OrthoLogic Corporation, Perlego Systems Inc., PowerTech Group, Inc. and not-for profits Junior Achievement Worldwide and Junior Achievement of Washington. He has served on a number of other corporate boards in the past. Mr. Howse received both a B.S. in engineering and a M.B.A. from Stanford University and served in the U.S. Navy submarine force. Elliott H. Jurgensen, Jr. has been a director of BSQUARE since January 2003. His term of office as a director expires at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Mr. Jurgensen retired from KPMG LLP in 2003 after 32 years, including 23 years as an audit partner. During his career he has held a number of leadership roles, including Managing Partner of the Bellevue, Washington office of KPMG from 1982 to 1991, and Managing Partner of the Seattle, Washington office of KPMG from 1993 to 2002. He is also a director of McCormick & Schmick’s Seafood Restaurants, Inc. and ASC Management Inc. Mr. Jurgensen has a B.S. in accounting from San Jose State University and is a Certified Public Accountant. Scot E. Land has been a director of BSQUARE since February 1998. His term of office as a director expires at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Mr. Land was elected to our board of directors in connection with the purchase of shares of our preferred stock by affiliates of Encompass Group, a venture capital firm, prior to our initial public offering. Mr. Land is currently a managing director of Cascadia Capital LLC. Prior to joining Cascadia Capital, Mr. Land was a managing director of Encompass Ventures from September 1997 to July 2005, Mr. Land was a Senior Technology Analyst and Strategic Planning Consultant with Microsoft from June 1995 to September 1997, and a technology research analyst and investment banker for First Marathon Securities, a Canadian investment bank, from September 1993 to April 1995. From October 1988 to February 1993, Mr. Land was the President and Chief Executive Officer of InVision Technologies, (a wholly owned subsidiary of GE) founded by Mr. Land in October 1988, that designs and manufacturers high-speed computer-aided topography systems for automatic explosives detection for aviation security. Prior to founding InVision Technologies, Mr. Land served as a principal in the international consulting practice of Ernst & Young LLP, a public accounting firm, from April 1984 to October 1988. Mr. Land serves as a director of several privately held companies. William D. Savoy has been a director of BSQUARE since May 2004. His current term of office as a director expires at this year’s Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Mr. Savoy currently consults with The Muckleshoot Indian Tribe on investment-related matters, strategic planning and economic development. Mr. Savoy has served as a consultant for Vulcan Inc., an investment entity that manages the personal financial activities of Paul Allen, from September 2003 to December 2005. Vulcan Inc. resulted from the consolidation in 2000 of Vulcan Ventures Inc., a venture capital fund, and Vulcan Northwest. Mr. Savoy served in various capacities at Vulcan Inc. and its predecessors from 1988 to September 2003, most recently as the president of the portfolio and asset management division, managing Vulcan’s commercial real estate, hedge fund, treasury and other financial activities, and as the president of both Vulcan Northwest and Vulcan Ventures. Mr. Savoy served as the president and chief executive officer of Layered, Inc., a software company, from June 1989 until its sale in June 1990 and as its chief financial officer from August 1988 to June 1989. He also serves as a director of Charter Communications, Inc., Drugstore.com, 12 Table of Contents Inc, and previously served on the advisory board of DreamWorks SKG and as a director of RCN Corporation. Mr. Savoy received a B.S. in computer science, accounting and finance from Atlantic Union College. Kendra VanderMeulen has been a director at BSQUARE since March 2005. Her term of office as a director expires at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Kendra recently served as executive vice president, Mobile at InfoSpace, and is an active board member or advisor to a variety of companies in the wireless Internet arena, including NetMotion Wireless, Kineto Wireless, and Sonim Technologies. Kendra joined AT&T Wireless (formerly McCaw Cellular Communications, now Cingular) in 1994 to lead the formation of the wireless data division. Prior to McCaw, Kendra served as COO and president of the Communications Systems Group of Cincinnati Bell Information Systems (now Convergys). She also held a variety of business and technical management positions at AT&T in the fields of software development, voice processing, and signaling systems. Kendra received a BS degree in mathematics from Marietta College and a MS degree in computer science from Ohio State University. She is the recipient of the 1999 Catherine B. Cleary award as the outstanding woman leader of AT&T. Carey E. Butler has been our Vice President, Professional Engineering Services since November 2003 and directs development teams located in Washington State and Taiwan. From 2002 to 2003, Ms. Butler served as Western Region Area Manager at Information Builders, a business intelligence software and services company. From 2000 to 2001, Ms. Butler was Vice President at Aris Corporation, a professional services company, and from 1996 to 2000 was Partner at BDO Seidman, LLP, a public accounting and management consulting firm. From 1990 to 1996, Ms. Butler was Principal of Performance Computing, Inc., a technology consulting company, subsequently sold to BDO Seidman. From 1982 to 1990, Ms. Butler was Vice President of Operations, Sales and Marketing of Mytec, Inc., a value-added reseller of turnkey financial systems. Ms. Butler holds a B.A. in Business, Quantitative Methods (Computer Science) from University of Washington. Pawan Gupta has been our Vice President of Product Management and Marketing since January 2005. Prior to joining BSQUARE, Mr. Gupta provided business and product strategy consulting services to various companies, including Microsoft. From September 2002 to May 2004, Mr. Gupta was Director of Worldwide Product Planning at Toshiba for its digital home and mobile devices. From September 2001 to August 2002, Mr. Gupta served as President of Internet Motors, a telematics services company. From September 1997 to September 2001, Mr. Gupta held various positions at Microsoft including Business Solutions Group Manager, Knowledge Management Product Manager, and Strategic Business Development Manager. From December 1995 to August 1997, Mr. Gupta worked at Kaspia Systems and UB Networks to bring a network auditing product to market. From June 1993 to November 1995, Mr. Gupta founded InfoPower which developed trade show applications. From April 1988 to May 1993, Mr. Gupta held various positions at a startup company, Kofax Image Products, where he helped bring several products to market and build business for those products in over 24 countries. Prior to that, for ten years Mr. Gupta worked at Citicorp and Perkin Elmer where he developed and led software teams. Mr. Gupta did his engineering work at I.I.T. and U.C.L.A. to earn a B.S. in Electrical Engineering and an M.S.T.M. (MBA) from Pepperdine University. Scott C. Mahan has been our Vice President, Finance, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer since January 2004. From October 2003 to December 2003, Mr. Mahan served as a consultant to BSQUARE. From February 2003 to July 2003, Mr. Mahan served as the Interim CFO and Head of Business & Corporate Development at Cranium, Inc., a games manufacturer. From March 2002 to November 2002, Mr. Mahan served as Chief Operating Officer at Xylo, Inc., a company that provides human resource technology and services to Fortune 1000 companies, and from June 1998 to December 2001 as CFO and Vice President, Administration at Qpass, Inc, a provider of billing serves to wireless carriers. From September 1996 to May 1998, Mr. Mahan served as Director of Finance at Sequel Technology Corporation, a company that delivered licensed software for the network traffic monitoring market. From August 1994 to August 1996, Mr. Mahan was Controller of Spry, Inc., an Internet software company and Internet service provider. Prior to that, Mr. Mahan was the Assistant Corporate Controller at Paccar Inc. from August 1993 to July 1994 and was an Audit Manager at Ernst & Young LLP in Seattle 13 Table of Contents where he was employed from July 1987 to August 1993. Mr. Mahan holds a B.S. in Management from Tulane University. Larry C. Stapleton has been our Vice President of North America Sales since March 2005. Mr. Stapleton is responsible for sales of professional engineering services, products and distribution. Prior to joining BSQUARE, Mr. Stapleton served as Vice President of Global Business Development at Terabeam from November 1999 to April 2004, where he was responsible for developing telecomm carrier business for broadband wireless access equipment in Asia and managing employees and VAR partnerships in Singapore, Malaysia, Japan, China, Philippines, and South Korea. Prior to that, Mr. Stapleton served as Terabeam’s Vice President, Product Development, responsible for developing all of Terabeam’s optical telecommunications equipment. From November 1997 to November 1999, Mr. Stapleton was Vice President of Sales and Marketing for SelfCHARGE, a contract product design and manufacturing (ODM) startup developing products for the medical, consumer and industrial markets. Before that he was Senior Director of Client Services at Teague from April 1992 to November 1997, generating designs for AT&T, Microsoft, John Deere, and many other Fortune 500 companies. He also has held a variety of product development, marketing, and engineering positions with several Fortune 100 companies. His degrees include an MBA from University of Washington and a BS, Mechanical Engineering, from San Jose State University. Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. If we do not maintain our OEM Distribution Agreement with Microsoft, our revenue would decrease and our business would be adversely affected. We have an OEM Distribution Agreement (ODA) with Microsoft, which enables us to resell Microsoft Windows Embedded operating systems to our customers in North America, including Mexico and the Dominican Republic. Software sales under this agreement constituted over 63% of our revenue in 2005. If the ODA was terminated, our software revenue would decrease significantly and our operating results would be impacted accordingly. Moreover, if the ODA with Microsoft is renewed on less favorable terms, our revenue could decrease, and/or our gross profit from these transactions, which is relatively low, could further decline. Microsoft offers us, and our competitors, largely volume-based rebates under the ODA and its related programs which have the effect of increasing our software gross profit. If Microsoft were to reduce, or eliminate, these rebate programs, which can contribute 2-3% of our gross profit from sales of Microsoft Embedded operating systems on a quarterly basis, our gross profit and operating results would be negatively impacted. The ODA is renewable annually, and there is no automatic renewal provision in the agreement. The ODA was last renewed in October 2005 and will expire on September 30, 2006, unless terminated earlier under the provisions of the ODA. Microsoft has audited our records under our OEM Distribution Agreement in the past and may do so again in the future, and any future audit could result in additional charges. There are provisions in the Microsoft ODA that require us to maintain certain internal records and processes for royalty auditing and other reasons. Non-compliance with these and other requirements could result in the termination of the ODA. We underwent an audit under the ODA with Microsoft which began in the fourth quarter of 2003 and concluded in the second quarter of 2004. The audit covered a period of five years. Microsoft determined that we had correctly reported royalties during the audit period but that we could not account for all license inventory that we had received from Microsoft’s authorized replicators. While we believe that the unaccounted-for license inventory related to undocumented inventory returns and disagreed with the audit findings, we ultimately chose to settle the dispute. Total settlement costs of 14 Table of Contents $310,000 were recognized in the second quarter of 2004, which included audit costs of $140,000. It is possible that future audits could result in additional charges. The market for the resale of Microsoft Embedded operating systems licenses is highly competitive and the profit margin for such resales is relatively low. If the profit margins in this business erode or we lose customers to competitors, our results will be negatively impacted. There are three competitors that also resell Embedded Windows licenses to substantially the same customer base as we do in North America, which can lead to intense competition. For example, on March 4, 2005, we were notified by Cardinal, our largest customer of Microsoft Embedded operating systems at the time, that it would begin purchasing from one of our competitors and discontinue purchasing from us at the beginning of the second quarter of 2005. Additionally, this competition can create additional downward pressure on gross profit margins. The gross profit margin on sales of Microsoft Embedded Windows licenses is relatively low, recently about 13 to 14% on average. Our gross profit margin on the sale of Microsoft Embedded operating systems and tools has remained relatively flat, but there can be no assurance that gross profit on future sales will not decline given these competitive pressures. If we do not maintain our favorable relationship with Microsoft, we will have difficulty marketing and selling our software and services and may not receive developer releases of Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile targeted platforms. As a result, our revenue and operating results could suffer. We maintain a strategic marketing relationship with Microsoft. In the event that our relationship with Microsoft were to deteriorate, our efforts to market and sell our software and services to OEMs and others could be adversely affected and our business could be harmed. Microsoft has significant influence over the development plans and buying decisions of OEMs and others utilizing Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile targeted platforms for smart devices and these targeted platforms are a significant focus for us. Microsoft provides customers referrals to us. Moreover, Microsoft controls the marketing campaigns related to its operating systems. Microsoft’s marketing activities, including trade shows, direct mail campaigns and print advertising, are important to the continued promotion and market acceptance of Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile targeted platforms and, consequently, to our sale of Windows-based embedded software and services. We must maintain a favorable relationship with Microsoft to continue to participate in joint marketing activities with them, which includes participating in “partner pavilions” at trade shows, listing our services on Microsoft’s website, and receiving customer referrals. In the event that we are unable to continue our joint marketing efforts with Microsoft, or fail to receive referrals from them, we would be required to devote significant additional resources and incur additional expenses to market software products and services directly to potential customers. In addition, we depend on Microsoft for developer releases of new versions of, and upgrades to, Windows Embedded and Windows Mobile software in order to facilitate timely development and delivery of our own software and services. If we are unable to maintain our favorable relationship with Microsoft, our revenue could decline and/or our costs could increase. Unexpected delays or announcement of delays by Microsoft of Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile targeted platforms product releases could adversely affect our revenue. Unexpected delays or announcement of delays in Microsoft’s delivery schedule for new versions of its Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile targeted platforms could cause us to delay our product introductions or impede our ability to sell our products and services and/or to complete customer projects on a timely basis. These delays, or announcements of delays by Microsoft could also cause our customers to delay or cancel their project development activities or product introductions, which may have a negative impact on our revenue and operating results. 15 Table of Contents Our marketplace is extremely competitive, which may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins and loss of market share. The market for Windows-based embedded software and services is extremely competitive. Increased competition may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins and loss of customers and market share, which would harm our business. We face competition from: • Our current and potential customers’ internal research and development departments, which may seek to develop their own proprietary products and solutions that compete with both our proprietary software products and our engineering services; • North American engineering service firms such as Intrinsyc, CalAmp, Vanteon and Teleca; • Off-shore development companies, particularly those focused on the North American marketplace; • ODMs particularly those in Taiwan who are adding software development capabilities to their offerings; • Contract manufacturers who are adding software development capabilities to their offerings; and • Microsoft Embedded operating system distributors such as Arrow, Avnet and Bell Microsystems. Larger customers of Microsoft Embedded operating systems are typically knowledgeable of the competing distributors in the North American market and, consequently, will often put large orders out to bid amongst the distributors, which can create margin pressure and make it difficult to maintain long-term relationships with customers who purchase only Microsoft Embedded operating systems from us. As we develop new products, particularly products focused on specific industries, we may begin competing with companies with which we have not previously competed. It is also possible that new competitors will enter the market or that our competitors will form alliances, including alliances with Microsoft, that may enable them to rapidly increase their market share. We have observed, for example, that at least one large contract manufacturer, Flextronics, has been acquiring embedded software expertise in order to enhance their manufacturing services offerings. Microsoft has not agreed to any exclusive arrangement with us, nor has it agreed not to compete with us. Microsoft may decide to bring more of the core embedded development services and expertise that we provide in-house, possibly resulting in reduced product and service revenue opportunities for us. The barrier to entering the market as a provider of Windows-based smart device software and services is low. In addition, Microsoft has created marketing programs to encourage systems integrators to work on Windows Embedded operating system products and services. These systems integrators are given substantially the same access by Microsoft to the Windows technology as we are. New competitors may have lower overhead than we do and may be able to undercut our pricing. We expect that competition will increase as other established and emerging companies enter the Windows-based smart device market, and as new products and technologies are introduced. Microsoft has released Windows CE version 5.0 and its next generation of Windows Mobile Smartphone and PocketPC which contains basic SDIO Now! functionality. Current and potential customers may decide that the functionality they receive directly from Microsoft is sufficient to complete their device development and may therefore choose not to purchase our SDIO Now! product. Our agreement with Microsoft required us to deliver to Microsoft our SDIO Now! v.1.0 source code for inclusion into Windows CE 5.0 and recent release of Windows Mobile Smartphone and PocketPC operating systems. Since that source code was delivered to Microsoft, we have continued to develop our SDIO Now! product line, introducing SDIO Now! v.2.0 and v.2.2, with new features and performance improvements that we believe are important to customers. Additionally, we plan further enhancements to our SDIO Now! software product in 2006. However, there can be no assurance that our next-generation SDIO Now! product offerings will continue to be competitive in the marketplace or that customers will not decide to use the basic functionality they receive from Microsoft. 16 Table of Contents Sales of SDIO Now! comprised 5% of our software revenue for 2005 and 6% for 2004. Sales of SDIO Now! carry much higher gross profit margin than the third-party software products we sell to our customers. To the extent sales of our SDIO Now! were to decline, our proprietary software revenue and operating results would be adversely impacted and our business would suffer. If Microsoft adds features to its Windows operating system or develops products that directly compete with products and services we provide, our revenue could be reduced and our profits could suffer. As the developer of Windows, Windows XP Embedded, Windows CE, Windows Mobile for Smartphone and Windows Mobile for PocketPC, Microsoft could add features to its operating systems or could develop products that directly compete with the products and services we provide to our customers. Such features could include, for example, software that competes with our own proprietary software products, driver development tools, hardware-support packages and quality-assurance tools. The ability of our customers, or potential customers, to obtain products and services directly from Microsoft that compete with our products and services could negatively affect our revenue and operating results. Even if the standard features of future Microsoft operating system software were more limited than our offerings, a significant number of our customers, and potential customers, might elect to accept more limited functionality in lieu of purchasing additional software from us. Moreover, the resulting competitive pressures could lead to price reductions for our products and reduce our revenue and gross profit margin accordingly. Our ability to maintain or grow the portion of our software revenue attributable to sales of our proprietary software products is contingent on our ability to bring to market competitive, unique offerings that keep pace with technological changes and needs. If we are not successful in doing so, our business would be harmed. Proprietary software products provide us with much higher gross profit margins than we typically receive from third-party software products and our engineering service offerings. Increasing the number and amount of proprietary products we sell is an important part of our growth strategy. Our ability to maintain and increase the revenue contribution from proprietary software products is contingent on our ability to enhance the features and functionality of our current proprietary products as well as to devise, develop and introduce new products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and expand the number of proprietary products that we sell, and our failure to do so could negatively impact revenue and our operating results. We may experience delays in our efforts to develop new products, and these delays could cause us to miss product market opportunities which could negatively impact our revenue and operating results. The market for Windows-based embedded software and services is very competitive. As a result, the life cycles of our products and services are difficult to estimate. To be successful, we believe we must continue to enhance our current offerings and provide new software product and service offerings with attractive features, prices and terms that appeal to our customers with attractive features, prices and terms. We have experienced delays in enhancements and new product release dates in the past and may be unable to introduce enhancements or new products successfully or in a timely manner in the future. Our revenue and operating results may be negatively impacted if we delay releases of our products and product enhancements, or if we fail to accurately anticipate our customers’ needs or technical trends and are unable to introduce new products and service offerings into the market successfully. In addition, our customers may defer or forego purchases of our products if we, Microsoft, our competitors or major hardware, systems or software vendors introduce or announce new products. If the market for smart devices develops more slowly than we expect, or declines, our revenue may not develop as anticipated, if at all, and our business would be harmed. The market for smart devices is still emerging and the potential size of this market and the timing of its development are not known. As a result, our profit potential is uncertain and our revenue may not 17 Table of Contents develop as anticipated, if at all. We are dependent upon the broad acceptance by businesses and consumers of a wide variety of smart devices, which will depend on many factors, including: • The development of content and applications for smart devices; • The willingness of large numbers of businesses and consumers to use devices such as smartphones, PDAs and handheld industrial data collectors to perform functions currently carried out manually, or by traditional PCs, including inputting and sharing data, communicating among users and connecting to the Internet; and • The evolution of industry standards or the necessary infrastructure that facilitate the distribution of content over the Internet to these devices via wired and wireless telecommunications systems, satellite or cable. If the market for Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile targeted platforms fails to develop further, develops more slowly than expected, or declines, our business and operating results may be materially harmed. Because a significant portion of our revenue to date has been generated by software products and engineering services targeted at the Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile platforms, if the market for these systems or platforms fails to develop further or develops more slowly than expected, or declines, our business and operating results may be negatively impacted. Market acceptance of Windows Embedded and Windows Mobile will depend on many factors, including: • Microsoft’s development and support of the Windows Embedded and Windows Mobile markets. As the developer and primary promoter of Windows CE, Windows XP Embedded, Windows Mobile for Smartphone and Windows Mobile for PocketPC, if Microsoft were to decide to discontinue or lessen its support of these operating systems and platforms, potential customers could select competing operating systems, which could reduce the demand for our Windows Embedded and Windows Mobile software products and engineering services; • The ability of the Microsoft Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile software to compete against existing and emerging operating systems for the smart device market, including: VxWorks and pSOS from WindRiver Systems Inc.; Symbian and Palm OS from PalmSource, Inc.; JavaOS from Sun Microsystems, Inc.; and other proprietary operating systems. In particular, in the market for handheld devices, Windows Mobile software for Pocket PC and Windows CE face intense competition from the Linux operating system. In the market for converged devices, Windows Mobile for Pocket PC Phone Edition and for Smartphone face intense competition from the EPOC operating system from Symbian. Windows Embedded operating systems and the Windows Mobile for Smartphone may be unsuccessful in capturing a significant share of these two segments of the smart device market, or in maintaining its market share therein; • The acceptance by OEMs and consumers of the mix of features and functions offered by Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile targeted platforms; and • The willingness of software developers to continue to develop and expand the applications that run on Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile targeted platforms. To the extent that software developers write applications for competing operating systems that are more attractive to smart device users than those available on Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile targeted platforms, potential purchasers could select competing operating systems over Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile targeted platforms. 18 Table of Contents The success and profitability of our engineering service offerings are contingent on our ability to differentiate our offerings adequately in the marketplace, which is, in turn, contingent on our ability to retain our engineering personnel and defend our billing rate structures against those of our competitors, including those using lower-cost offshore resources. If we are unable to do so successfully, our business could be harmed. We are a leader in providing engineering services to smart device customers. Our market differentiation is created through several factors, including our experience with a variety of smart device platforms and applications. Our differentiation is contingent, in part, on our ability to attract and retain employees with this expertise, significantly all of whom currently are based in the United States. To the extent we are unable to retain critical engineering services talent and/or our competition is able to deliver the same services by using lower-cost offshore resources, our service revenue and operating results could be negatively impacted. The success and profitability of our service engagements are contingent upon our ability to scope and bid engagements and deliver our services profitably. If we are unable to do so, our service revenue service gross profit margin may be significantly impacted. Various factors may cause the total cost of service projects to exceed the original estimate provided to the customer or the contractual maximum in the case of fixed price contracts, including specification changes, customer deliverable delays, inadequate scoping and inefficient service delivery. If we are unable to adequately scope, bid and deliver on service engagements successfully, our service revenue and operating results could be negatively impacted. In addition, depending on the cause of an overrun for a given customer, we may also decide to provide pricing concessions to that customer which could negatively impact our service revenue and operating results. We have entered into service agreements that involve reducing up front service revenue in exchange for royalties as our customers devices are sold in the market. There is no guarantee that these arrangements will culminate as anticipated. We have entered into two service contracts that involve reducing up-front engineering service fees in return for a per-device royalty as our customers ship their devices, and we may enter into more such agreements in the future. These contracts call for guaranteed royalty payments by our customers. Because we are delaying revenue past the point where our services are performed, there is a risk that our customers may cancel their device projects, or that their devices may not be successful in the market, and these customers may choose not to pay us all royalties owed, which could negatively impact our revenue and operating results. If we are unable to license key software from third parties, our business could be harmed. We sometimes integrate third-party software with our proprietary software and engineering service offerings or sell such third-party software offerings on a standalone basis (e.g. Embedded operating systems under our ODA with Microsoft). If our relationships with these third-party software vendors were to deteriorate, or be eliminated in their entirety, we might be unable to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In the event that we are unable to obtain these third-party software offerings, we would be required to develop this technology internally, assuming it was economically or technically feasible, or seek similar software offerings from other third parties, which could delay or limit our ability to introduce enhancements or new products, or to continue to sell existing products and engineering services, and our revenue and operating results could be negatively impacted. Our revenue may flatten or decline and we may not be able to regain and sustain profitability in accordance with our current plans. We have generated net losses in every year since 2001. If our revenue remains flat or declines and/or our expenses increase or cannot be maintained proportionately, we will experience additional losses and 19 Table of Contents will be required to use our existing cash to fund operations. We expect that our expenses will continue to be substantial in the foreseeable future, including potential compliance costs associated with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and may prove higher than we currently anticipate. Further, we may not succeed in increasing our revenue sufficiently to offset unanticipated expense increases. Unexpected fluctuations in our operating results could cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so. If our operating results fall below the expectations of analysts and investors, the price of our common stock may fall. Factors that have in the past and may continue in the future to cause our operating results to fluctuate include those described in this “Risk Factors” section. In addition, our stock price may fluctuate due to conditions unrelated to our operating performance, including general economic conditions in the technology industry, our Nasdaq listing status and the market for technology stocks. A continued decline in our shareholders’ equity or a decline in our stock price could cause our common stock to be delisted from the Nasdaq National Market. As of December 31, 2005, our shareholders’ equity was $11.5 million. The minimum continued listing requirement for the Nasdaq National Market is $10 million. We have incurred significant net losses since 2001 and may incur additional losses in the future. If our shareholders’ equity decreases below $10 million, we will be notified by the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department that we are not in compliance with the minimum $10 million shareholders’ equity requirement of Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(3). In addition, during the last three years, our common stock has traded at times near or below the $1.00 Nasdaq National Market minimum bid price. On April 5, 2005, we received notification from The Nasdaq Stock Market that for the previous 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). Therefore, in accordance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(2), we were provided 180 calendar days, or until October 3, 2005, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price listing requirement. On October 5, 2005, our board of directors approved an amendment to our articles of incorporation to reduce our number of authorized shares of common stock from 150,000,000 to 37,500,000 and also approved a one-for-four reverse stock split of our common stock. The reverse stock split was effective with respect to shareholders of record at the close of trading on October 6, 2005, and our common stock began trading on a split-adjusted basis on October 7, 2005. On October 24, 2005, we received notification from the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Staff that we had regained compliance with Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) and that the Staff would give this matter no further consideration. There can be no assurance that we will continue to meet the $1.00 minimum bid requirement. If our common stock is delisted from trading on the Nasdaq National Market as a result of listing requirement violations and is neither relisted thereon nor listed for trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market, trading in our common stock may continue to be conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board or in a non-Nasdaq over-the-counter market, such as the “pink sheets.” Delisting of our common stock from trading on the Nasdaq National or Capital Market would adversely affect the price and liquidity of our common stock and could adversely affect our ability to issue additional securities or to secure additional financing. In that event our common stock could also be deemed to be a “penny stock” under the Securities Enforcement and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990, which would require additional disclosure in connection with trades in the common stock, including the delivery of a disclosure schedule explaining the nature and risks of the penny stock market. Such requirements could further adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock. Non-compliance with certain agreements could have a material adverse impact on our financial position. In addition to our Microsoft OEM Distribution Agreement described previously, we entered into a lease in February 2004 for our new corporate headquarters and, at the same time, an amendment to the 20 Table of Contents lease for our former corporate headquarters. Both of these agreements were entered into with the same landlord. Under both of these leases, we were not required to make any cash lease payments during 2004. However, if we default under our new corporate headquarters lease, the landlord has the ability to demand cash payments forgiven in 2004 under the former headquarters lease. The amount of the forgiven payments for which the landlord has the ability to demand repayment, in the event of default, decreases on the straight-line basis over the length of our new ten-year headquarters lease. The total amount of cash payments forgiven for which the landlord has the ability to demand repayment was $2.1 million at December 31, 2005. Any breach of or non-compliance with these lease agreements or our OEM Distribution Agreement with Microsoft could have a material adverse impact on our business. The long sales cycle of our products and services makes our revenue susceptible to fluctuations. Our sales cycle is typically three to nine months because the expense and complexity of the software and engineering service offerings we sell generally require a lengthy customer approval process and may be subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control, including: • Customers’ budgetary constraints and internal acceptance review procedures; • The timing of budget cycles; and • The timing of customers’ competitive evaluation processes. In addition, to successfully sell software and engineering service offerings, we must frequently educate our potential customers about the full benefits of these software and services, which can require significant time. If our sales cycle further lengthens unexpectedly, it could adversely affect the timing of our revenue which could cause our quarterly results to fluctuate. Erosion of the financial condition of our customers could adversely affect our business. Our business could be adversely affected should the financial condition of our customers erode, given that such erosion could reduce demand from those customers for our software and engineering services or even cause them to terminate their relationships with us, and also could increase the credit risk of those customers. If the global information technology market weakens, the likelihood of the erosion of the financial condition of our customers increases, which could adversely affect the demand for our software and services. Additionally, while we believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate, those allowances may not cover actual losses, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Continued erosion of our financial condition would adversely affect our business. If our financial condition continues to erode, particularly if we continue to generate operating losses and our cash balance declines, our customers and potential customers may decide that our financial condition is not sufficient to do business with us, particularly those that have implemented new vendor requirements as part of their Sarbanes-Oxley compliance, and may choose to engage with one of our competitors. This would adversely affect our business and operating results. Our software and service offerings could infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, which could expose us to additional costs and litigation and could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services or cause shipment delays or stoppages. It is difficult to determine whether our products and engineering services infringe third-party intellectual property rights, particularly in a rapidly evolving technological environment in which technologies often overlap and where there may be numerous patent applications pending, many of which are confidential when filed. If we were to discover that one of our products, or a product based on one of our reference designs, violated a third-party’s proprietary rights, we may not be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, to continue offering that product or service. Similarly, third parties may claim that our current or future products and services infringe their proprietary rights, regardless of whether such claims have merit. Any such claims could increase our costs and negatively 21 Table of Contents impact our business and operating results. In certain cases, we have been unable to obtain indemnification against claims that our products and services infringe the proprietary rights of others. However, any indemnification we do obtain may be limited in scope or amount. Even if we receive broad third-party indemnification, these entities may not have the financial capability to indemnify us in the event of infringement. In addition, in some circumstances we could be required to indemnify our customers for claims made against them that are based on our products or services. There can be no assurance that infringement or invalidity claims related to the products and services we provide, or arising from the incorporation by us of third-party technology, and claims for indemnification from our customers resulting from such claims, will not be asserted or prosecuted against us. Some of our competitors have, or are affiliated, with companies with substantially greater resources than we have, and these competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. In addition, we expect that software developers will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in the software industry grows, and as the functionality of products in different industry segments increasingly overlap. Such claims, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources in addition to potential product redevelopment costs and delays. Furthermore, if we were unsuccessful in resolving a patent or other intellectual property infringement action claim against us, we may be prohibited from developing or commercializing certain of our technologies and products, or delivering services based on the infringing technology, unless we obtain a license from the holder of the patent or other intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any such license on commercially favorable terms, or at all. If such license is not obtained, we would be required to cease these related business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue and operating results. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technology or trademarks, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenue and increase our costs. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitive position could be weakened and our revenue adversely affected. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property. These laws and procedures provide only limited protection. We have applied for a number of patents relating to our engineering work although we do not rely on patents as our primary defensive measure in protecting our intellectual property. These patents, both issued and pending, may not provide sufficiently broad protection, or they may not prove to be enforceable, against alleged infringers. There can be no assurance that any of our pending patents will be granted. Even if granted, these patents may be circumvented or challenged and, if challenged, may be invalidated. Any patents obtained may provide limited or no competitive advantage to us. It is also possible that another party could obtain patents that block our use of some, or all, of our products and services. If that occurred, we would need to obtain a license from the patent holder or design around those patents. The patent holder may or may not choose to make a license available to us at all or on acceptable terms. Similarly, it may not be possible to design around a blocking patent. In general, there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights through patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws will be effective to prevent misappropriation of our technology, or to prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to or competitive with those developed by us. We frequently license the source code of our products and the source code results of our services to customers. There can be no assurance that customers with access to our source code will comply with the license terms or that we will discover any violations of the license terms or, in the event of discovery of violations, that we will be able to successfully enforce the license terms and/or recover the economic value lost from such violations. To license some of our software products, we rely in part on “shrinkwrap” and “clickwrap” licenses that are not signed by the end user and, therefore, may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions. As with other software, our products are susceptible to unauthorized copying and uses that may go undetected, and policing such unauthorized use is difficult. A significant portion of 22 Table of Contents our marks include the word “BSQUARE” or the preface “b.” Other companies use forms of “BSQUARE” or the preface “b” in their marks alone, or in combination with other words, and we cannot prevent all such third-party uses. We license certain trademark rights to third parties. Such licensees may not abide by our compliance and quality control guidelines with respect to such trademark rights and may take actions that would harm our business. The computer software market is characterized by frequent and substantial intellectual property litigation, which is often complex and expensive, and involves a significant diversion of resources and uncertainty of outcome. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property or to defend against a claim of infringement or invalidity. Litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and could negatively impact our business and operating results. We may be subject to product liability claims that could result in significant costs. Our license, warranty and service agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. It is possible, however, that these provisions may be ineffective under the laws of certain jurisdictions. Although we have not experienced any product liability claims to date, the sale and support of our products and services, particularly our now-discontinued Power Handheld hardware product, entail the risk of such claims, and we may be subject to such claims in the future. In addition, to the extent we develop and sell increasingly comprehensive, customized turnkey solutions for our customers, we may be increasingly subject to risks of product liability claims. There is a risk that any such claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside, the scope of our insurance coverage, and we may be unable to retain adequate liability insurance in the future. A product liability claim brought against us, whether successful or not, could harm our business and operating results. Our software or hardware products or the third-party hardware or software integrated with our products may suffer from defects or errors that could impair our ability to sell our products and services. Software and hardware components as complex as those needed for smart devices frequently contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. We have had to delay commercial release of certain versions of our products until problems were corrected and, in some cases, have provided product enhancements to correct errors in released products. Some of our contracts require us to repair or replace products that fail to work. To the extent that we repair or replace products our expenses may increase. In addition, it is possible that by the time defects are fixed, the market opportunity may decline which may result in lost revenue. Moreover, to the extent that we provide increasingly comprehensive products and services, particularly those focused on hardware, and rely on third-party manufacturers and suppliers to manufacture our and our customers’ products, including those related to Power Handheld devices distributed prior to discontinuance, we will be dependent on the ability of third-party manufacturers to correct, identify and prevent manufacturing errors. Errors that are discovered after commercial release could result in loss of revenue or delay in market acceptance, diversion of development resources, damage to our reputation and increased service and warranty costs, all of which could negatively affect our business and operating results. As we increase the amount of software development conducted in non-U.S. locations, potential delays and quality issues may impact our ability to timely deliver our software and services, potentially impacting our revenue and profitability. We conduct development activities in non-U.S. locations, primarily India and Taiwan, to take advantage of the high-quality, low-cost software development resources found in these countries. Additionally, we have plans to increase development activity both in our Taiwan operation and other non-U.S. locations as engineering demands necessitate the need for additional engineering personnel. To date, we have limited experience in managing large scale software development done in non-U.S. locations. Moving portions of our software development to these locations inherently increases the complexity of managing these programs and may result in delays in introducing new products to market, or delays in completing service projects for our customers, which in turn may adversely impact the revenue we 23 Table of Contents recognize from related products and services and could also adversely impact the profitability of service engagements employing off-shore resources. We have initiated litigation against a former customer to recover fees due for engineering services provided by us in the first half of 2005, and there can be no assurance as to the outcome of this proceeding. We filed a complaint for breach of contract and misappropriation of intellectual property against a former customer on December 22, 2005 in Federal district court in Delaware. We have petitioned for an award of damages of approximately $475,000, plus interest and attorneys fees and related costs, and we have reserved the right to request an injunction against the customer for misappropriation of intellectual property. On January 27, 2006, the former customer filed an answer and counterclaim against us, denying our claims and alleging breach of contract, tortious interference with the customer’s business and fraud in the inducement of the underlying contract. The former customer has asked for an award of damages that includes a refund of all payments made by them prior to the customer’s breach for non-payment (approximately $280,000), lost profits, costs incurred by the customer to complete the project, any reduction in the value of goodwill, and attorneys’ fees and costs. We filed our reply to the counterclaim on February 16, 2006. We believe that we have fulfilled all of our contractual obligations under the services contract, that we will be able to successfully defend the counterclaims against us, and that we are entitled to collect all amounts due under the contract, plus attorneys’ fees and costs. However, there can be no assurance that the court will ultimately rule in our favor, and it may, in fact, rule in favor of the former customer. Further, the legal proceedings could result in the incurrence of significant legal and related expenses, which may not be recoverable depending on the outcome of the litigation. An award by the court in favor of the customer and/or the incurrence of significant legal fees which are not recoverable could adversely impact our operating results. Past acquisitions have proven difficult to integrate, and future acquisitions, if any, could disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value and adversely affect our operating results. We have acquired the technologies, assets and/or operations of other companies in the past and may acquire or make investments in companies, products, services and technologies in the future as part of our growth strategy. As an example, on June 30, 2005, we announced that we had acquired the embedded business assets of Vibren Technologies, Inc. for $500,000 in cash and the assumption of certain liabilities and obligations. If we fail to properly evaluate, integrate and execute on our acquisitions and investments, our business and prospects may be seriously harmed. In some cases, we have implemented reductions in workforce and office closures in connection with an acquisition, which has resulted in significant costs to us. To successfully complete an acquisition, we must properly evaluate the technology, accurately forecast the financial impact of the transaction, including accounting charges and transaction expenses, integrate and retain personnel, combine potentially different corporate cultures and effectively integrate products and research and development, sales, marketing and support operations. If we fail to do any of these, we may suffer losses and impair relationships with our employees, customers and strategic partners. Additionally, management may be distracted from day-to-day operations. We also may be unable to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, which are especially critical in light of the new Sarbanes-Oxley compliance requirements, and significant demands may be placed on our management and our operations, information services and financial, legal and marketing resources. Finally, acquired businesses sometimes result in unexpected liabilities and contingencies, which could be significant. It might be difficult for a third-party to acquire us even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Washington law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of us or a change in our management, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our Board of Directors has the authority under our amended and restated articles of incorporation to issue preferred stock with rights superior to the rights of the holders of common 24 Table of Contents stock. As a result, preferred stock could be issued quickly and easily with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of our management more difficult. In addition, our Board of Directors is divided into three classes. The directors in each class serve for three-year terms, one class being elected each year by our shareholders. This system of electing and removing directors may discourage a third-party from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company because it generally makes it more difficult for shareholders to replace a majority of our directors. In addition, Chapter 19 of the Washington Business Corporation Act generally prohibits a “target corporation” from engaging in certain significant business transactions with a defined “acquiring person” for a period of five years after the acquisition, unless the transaction or acquisition of shares is approved by a majority of the members of the target corporation’s Board of Directors prior to the time of acquisition. This provision may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of our company. The existence of these anti-takeover provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We likely will incur substantial costs to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Act) introduced new requirements regarding corporate governance and financial reporting. Among the many requirements is the requirement under Section 404 of the Act for management to report on our internal control over financial reporting and for our registered public accountant to attest to this report. The SEC has modified the effective date of Section 404 implementation for non-accelerated filers, such as us, twice within 2005 such that management will now have to report on our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. In April 2006, the SEC Advisory Committee on Smaller Public Companies is expected to make final recommendations to the SEC regarding the internal control requirements of smaller public companies. Pending the final rules, we may be required to dedicate significant time and resources during fiscal 2006 and 2007 to ensure compliance. The costs to comply with these requirements will likely be significant and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to comply with Section 404. Failure to do so could result in penalties and additional expenditures to meet the requirements, which could affect the ability of our auditors to issue an unqualified report which, in turn, may further adversely affect our business. Decreased effectiveness of equity compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees, and required changes in accounting for equity compensation could adversely affect earnings. We have historically used stock options and other forms of equity-related compensation as key components of our overall employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our shareholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. In recent periods, many of our employee stock options have had exercise prices in excess of our stock price, which reduces their value to employees and could affect our ability to retain or attract present and prospective employees. Moreover, applicable stock exchange listing standards relating to obtaining shareholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it more difficult or expensive for us to grant options to employees in the future. As a result, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. Our international operations expose us to greater intellectual property, management, collections, regulatory and other risks. Foreign operations generated approximately 3% of our total revenue for 2005 and 4% in 2004. Our international operations expose us to a number of risks, including the following: • Greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property due to less stringent foreign intellectual property laws and enforcement policies; 25 Table of Contents • Loss or reduction of withholding tax exemptions; • Longer collection cycles than we typically experience in the U.S.; • Unfavorable changes in regulatory practices and tariffs; • Complex and/or adverse tax laws and/or changes thereto. Additionally, we may be subject to income, withholding and other taxes for which we may realize no current benefit despite the existence of significant net operating losses and tax credits in the U.S.; • The impact of fluctuating exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies; and • General economic and political conditions in international markets which may differ from those in the U.S. These risks could have a material adverse effect on the financial and managerial resources required to operate our foreign offices, as well as on our future international revenue, which could harm our business and operating results. We currently have international operations in Taipei, Taiwan and Tokyo, Japan. In February 2006, we established a subsidiary in Vancouver, Canada and have hired four employees there to support our professional engineering services. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 