Item 1A Risk Factors The factors described below represent the principal risks associated with our business. We are subject to extensive regulation of our international operations that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Due to our global operations, we are subject to many laws governing international commercial activity, conduct and relations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government 9 Table of Contents officials, restrict where and with whom we can do business, and limit the products, software and technology that we can supply to certain countries and customers. These laws include but are not limited to, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and United Kingdom Bribery Act, U.S. sanctions and assets control programs administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and the U.S. export control laws such as the regulations under the U.S. Export Administration Act, as well as similar laws and regulations in other countries relevant to our business operations. Violations of any of these laws or regulations, which are often complex in their application, may result in criminal or civil penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We may be required to make additional cash contributions to our United Kingdom defined benefit pension plan and recognize greater pension charges. Movements in the underlying plan asset value and Projected Benefit Obligation (“PBO”) of our United Kingdom defined benefit pension plan are dependent on actual return on investments as well as our assumptions in respect of the discount rate, annual member mortality rates, future return on assets and future inflation. A change in any one of these assumptions could impact the plan asset value, PBO and pension charge recognized in the income statement. If future plan investment returns prove insufficient to meet future obligations, or should future obligations increase due to actuarial factors or changes in pension legislation, then we may be required to make additional cash contributions. These events could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Competition and market conditions may adversely affect our operating results. In certain markets, our competitors are larger than us and may have greater access to financial, technological and other resources. As a result, competitors may be better able to adapt to changes in conditions in our industries, fluctuations in the costs of raw materials or changes in global economic conditions. Competitors may also be able to introduce new products with enhanced features that may cause a decline in the demand and sales of our products. Consolidation of customers or competitors, or economic problems of customers in our markets could cause a loss of market share for our products, place downward pressure on prices, result in payment delays or non-payment, or declining plant utilization rates. These risks could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We could be adversely affected by technological changes in our industry. Our ability to maintain or enhance our technological capabilities, develop and market products and applications that meet changing customer requirements, and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes in a cost effective and timely manner will likely impact our future business success. We compete on a number of fronts including, but not limited to, product quality and performance. In the case of some of our products, our competitors are larger than us and may have greater access to financial, technological and other resources. Our inability to maintain a technological edge, innovate and improve our products could cause a decline in the demand and sales of our products, and adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 10 Table of Contents Our reliance on a small number of significant customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our principal customers are major multinational and state-owned oil companies, and large multinational manufacturers of personal care and household products. These industries are characterized by a concentration of a few large participants. The loss of a significant customer, a material reduction in demand by a significant customer or termination or non-renewal of a significant customer contract could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We may not be able to consummate, finance or successfully integrate future acquisitions, partnerships or other opportunities into our business, which could hinder our strategy or result in unanticipated expenses and losses. Part of our strategy is to pursue strategic acquisitions, partnerships and other opportunities to complement and expand our existing business. The success of these transactions depends on our ability to efficiently complete transactions, integrate assets and personnel acquired in these transactions, apply our internal control processes to these acquired businesses and cooperate with our strategic partners. Consummating acquisitions, partnerships or other opportunities and integrating an acquisition involve considerable expenses, resources and management time commitments, and our failure to effect these as intended could result in unanticipated expenses and losses. Post-acquisition integration may result in unforeseen difficulties and may deplete significant financial resources that could otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Furthermore, we may not realize the benefits of an acquisition in the way we anticipated when we first entered the transaction. Any of these risks could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our success depends on our management team and other key personnel, the loss of any of whom could disrupt our business operations. Our future success will depend in substantial part on the continued services of our senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of our key executive personnel could affect implementation of our business plan and result in reduced profitability. Our future success also depends on the continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly-qualified technical, sales and support staff. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain our key personnel or attract or retain qualified personnel in the future. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts in this regard, this could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Continuing adverse global economic conditions could materially affect our current and future businesses. The ongoing concern about the stability of global markets generally, and specifically the Eurozone, and the strength of counterparties in particular has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, or cease to provide, credit to businesses and consumers. These factors have led to a substantial and continuing decrease in spending by businesses and 11 Table of Contents consumers, and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure spending. The availability, cost and terms of credit have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the foregoing factors and these circumstances have produced, and may in the future result in, illiquid markets and wider credit spreads. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies, the generally restricted environment for credit, and prolonged declines in business and consumer spending could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. An information technology system failure may adversely affect our business. We rely on information technology systems to transact our business. Like other global companies, we have, from time to time, experienced threats to our data and systems. Although we have implemented administrative and technical controls and take protective actions to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology, and we endeavor to modify such procedures as circumstances warrant, such measures may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems. While to date we have not experienced a material cyber security breach, our systems, processes, software and network still may be vulnerable to internal or external security breaches, computer viruses, malware or other malicious code or cyber-attack, catastrophic events, power interruptions, hardware failures, fire, natural disasters, human error, system failures and disruptions, and other events that could have security consequences. Such an information technology failure or disruption could prevent us from being able to process transactions with our customers, operate our manufacturing facilities, and properly report those transactions in a timely manner. A significant, protracted information technology system failure may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We are also continuing with the process of implementing our new, company-wide, information system platform. The new information system platform may cost more than projected or may not perform as expected, either of which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We may have additional tax liabilities. We are subject to income and other taxes in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in estimating our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, any final determination pursuant to tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different to what is reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Should any tax authority disagree with our estimates and determine additional tax liability for us, this could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 12 Table of Contents We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We generate a portion of our revenues and incur some operating costs in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, the financial position and results of operations of some of our overseas subsidiaries are reported in the relevant local currency and then translated to U.S. dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. Fluctuations in these currency exchange rates affect the recorded levels of our assets and liabilities, and our results of operations. The primary exchange rate fluctuation exposure we have is with the European Union euro, British pound sterling and Swiss franc. Exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to do so. We cannot accurately predict future exchange rate variability among these currencies or relative to the U.S. dollar. While we take steps to manage currency exchange rate exposure, including entering into hedging transactions, we cannot eliminate all exposure to future exchange rate variability. These exchange risks could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Sharp and unexpected fluctuations in the cost of our raw materials and energy could adversely affect our profit margins. We use a variety of raw materials, chemicals and energy in our manufacturing and blending processes. Many of these raw materials are derived from petrochemical-based feedstocks which can be subject to periods of rapid and significant cost instability. These fluctuations in cost can be caused by political instability in oil producing nations and elsewhere, or other factors influencing global supply and demand of these materials, over which we have little or no control. We use long-term contracts (generally with fixed or formula-based costs) and advance bulk purchases to help ensure availability and continuity of supply, and to manage the risk of cost increases. We have entered into hedging arrangements for certain raw materials, but do not typically enter into hedging arrangements for all raw materials, chemicals or energy costs. If the costs of raw materials, chemicals or energy increase, and we are not able to pass on these cost increases to our customers, then profit margins and cash flows from operating activities would be adversely impacted. If raw material costs increase significantly, then our need for working capital could increase. Any of these risks could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. A disruption in the supply of raw materials or transportation services would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. The chemical industry is generally experiencing some tightness in the supply of certain commodity materials. Although we try to anticipate problems with supplies of raw materials or transportation services by building certain inventories of strategic importance, any significant disruption in either area could affect our ability to obtain raw materials or transportation services at affordable costs, if at all, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents Our reliance on a small number of significant stockholders may have a material adverse impact on our stock price. Approximately 35% of our common stock is held by four stockholders. A decision by any of these stockholders to sell all or a significant part of its holding, or a sudden or unexpected disposition of our stock, could result in a significant decline in our stock price which could in turn adversely impact our ability to access equity markets which in turn could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We face risks related to our foreign operations that may adversely affect our business. We serve global markets and operate in certain countries with political and economic instability, including the Middle East, Northern Africa, Asia-Pacific, Eastern Europe and South America regions. Our international operations are subject to numerous international business risks including, but not limited to, unsettled political conditions, risk of expropriation, import and export restrictions, exchange controls, national and regional labor strikes, high or unexpected taxes, government royalties and restrictions on repatriation of earnings or proceeds from liquidated assets of overseas subsidiaries. Any of these could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our future performance and cash flows. Failure to maintain or protect our intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies, or us having to pay other companies for infringing on their intellectual property rights. Measures taken by us to protect our intellectual property may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. We may also face patent infringement claims from our competitors which may result in substantial litigation costs, claims for damages or a tarnishing of our reputation even if we are successful in defending against these claims, which may cause our customers to switch to our competitors. Any of these events could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our products are subject to extensive government scrutiny and regulation. We are subject to regulation by federal, state, local and foreign government authorities. In some cases, we need government approval of our products, manufacturing processes and facilities before we may sell certain products. Many products are required to be registered with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and with comparable government agencies in the European Union and elsewhere. We are also subject to ongoing reviews of our products, manufacturing processes and facilities by government authorities, and must also produce product data and comply with detailed regulatory requirements. In order to obtain regulatory approval of certain new products we must, among other things, demonstrate that the product is appropriate and effective for its intended uses, and that we are capable of manufacturing the product in accordance with applicable regulations. This approval process can be costly, time consuming, and subject to unanticipated and significant delays. We 14 Table of Contents cannot be sure that necessary approvals will be granted on a timely basis or at all. Any delay in obtaining, or any failure to obtain or maintain, these approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new products and to generate income from those products. New or stricter laws and regulations may be introduced that could result in additional compliance costs and prevent or inhibit the development, manufacture, distribution and sale of our products. Such outcomes could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Legal proceedings and other claims could impose substantial costs on us. We are from time to time involved in legal proceedings that result from, and are incidental to, the conduct of our business, including employee and product liability claims. Although we maintain insurance to protect us against a variety of claims, if our insurance coverage is not adequate to cover such claims, then our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be adversely affected. Environmental liabilities and compliance costs could have a substantial adverse impact on our results of operations. We operate a number of manufacturing sites and are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those relating to emissions to the air, discharges to land and water, and the generation, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials on these sites. We operate under numerous environmental permits and licenses, many of which require periodic notification and renewal, which is not automatic. New or stricter laws and regulations could increase our compliance burden or costs and adversely affect our ability to develop, manufacture, blend, market and supply products. Our operations, and the operations of prior owners of our sites, pose the risk of environmental contamination which may result in fines or criminal sanctions being imposed or require significant amounts in remediation payments. We anticipate that certain manufacturing sites may cease production over the medium to long-term and on closure, will require safely decommissioning and some environmental remediation. The extent of our obligations will depend on the future use of the sites that are affected and the environmental laws in effect at the time. We currently have made a decommissioning and remediation provision in our consolidated financial statements based on current known obligations, anticipated plans for sites and existing environmental laws. If there were to be unexpected or unknown contamination at these sites, or future plans for the sites or environmental laws change, then current provisions may prove inadequate, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The inability of counterparties to meet their contractual obligations could have a substantial adverse impact on our results of operations. We sell products to oil refineries and chemical companies throughout the world. Credit limits, ongoing credit evaluation and account monitoring procedures are used to minimize bad debt 15 Table of Contents risk. Collateral is not generally required. We have in place a credit facility with a syndicate of banks. We use derivatives, including interest rate swaps, commodity swaps and foreign currency forward exchange contracts, in the normal course of business to manage market risks. We enter into derivative instruments with a diversified group of major financial institutions in order to manage the exposure to non-performance of such instruments. We remain subject to market and credit risks including the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual obligations and the potential non-performance of counterparties to deliver contracted commodities or services at the contracted price. The inability of counterparties to meet their contractual obligations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The terms of our credit facility may restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness or to otherwise expand our business. Our revolving credit facility contains restrictive clauses which may limit our activities, and operational and financial flexibility. We may not be able to borrow under the credit facility if an event of default under the terms of the facility occurs. An event of default under the credit facility includes a material adverse change to our assets, operations or financial condition, and certain other events. The credit facility also contains a number of restrictions that limit our ability, among other things, and subject to certain limited exceptions, to incur additional indebtedness, pledge our assets as security, guarantee obligations of third parties, make investments, undergo a merger or consolidation, dispose of assets or materially change our line of business. In addition, the credit facility requires us to meet certain financial ratios, including ratios based on net debt to EBITDA and net interest expense to EBITDA. EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure of liquidity defined in the credit facility. Our ability to meet these financial covenants depends upon the future successful operating performance of the business. If we fail to comply with financial covenants, we would be in default under the credit facility and the maturity of our outstanding debt could be accelerated unless we were able to obtain waivers from our lenders. If we were found to be in default under the credit facility, it could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our business is subject to the risk of manufacturing disruptions, the occurrence of which would adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to hazards common to chemical manufacturing, blending, storage, handling and transportation including fires, labor strikes or slowdowns, explosions, mechanical failure, extreme weather, transportation interruptions, remediation, chemical spills and the release or discharge of toxic or hazardous substances. These hazards could result in loss of life, property damage, environmental contamination and temporary or permanent manufacturing cessation. Any of these factors could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 16 Table of Contents Domestic or international natural disasters or terrorist attacks may disrupt our operations, decrease the demand for our products or otherwise have an adverse impact on our business. Chemical related assets, and U.S. corporations such as us, may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other possible targets in the U.S., the United Kingdom and throughout the world. Extraordinary events such as natural disasters may negatively affect local economies, including those of our customers or suppliers. The occurrence of such events cannot be predicted, but they can adversely impact economic conditions in general and in our specific markets. The resulting damage from such events could include loss of life, property damage or site closure. Any of these matters could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our Octane Additives segment could decline faster than expected. The remaining sales of the Octane Additives segment are now concentrated in a relatively small number of customers and therefore could decline quickly and dramatically and adversely impact our future results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We expect to cease sales of TEL for use in automotive gasoline in 2013, however this is dependent upon the phase out plans of the remaining countries as they transition to unleaded gasoline. New regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. As a result, the SEC has adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies which use such conflict minerals in their products. These new requirements may require due diligence efforts in 2013, with initial disclosure requirements beginning in May 2014. There may be costs associated with complying with these disclosure and reporting requirements, if relevant, including for due diligence to determine the sources of materials used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. The implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict free minerals, if desired, from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all materials used in our products through the procedures we may implement. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 Table of Contents 