Item 1A Risk Factors Our business is subject to many factors that could materially adversely affect our future performance and cause our actual results to differ materially from those experienced or implied by forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Investing in our securities involves risks and accordingly investors should carefully evaluate these risks including the factors discussed below before deciding to invest in our securities. Competition and market conditions may adversely affect our operating results. Certain product lines and markets in which the Company’s businesses operate are subject to significant competition. The Company competes on the basis of a number of factors including, 9 Table of Contents but not limited to, product quality and properties, customer relationships and service, and regulatory and toxicological expertise. For some products the competitors are larger than us and may have greater access to financial, technological and other resources. As a result these competitors may be able to better withstand a change in conditions within the industries in which the Company operates, a change in the prices of raw materials or a change in global economic conditions. Competitors may be able to introduce new products with enhanced features that may cause a decline in the demand and sales of the Company’s products. Consolidation of customers or competitors in the market areas in which the Company operates may cause a loss of market share for the Company’s products or place downward pressure on prices. Any of these risks could negatively impact our future revenues, gross margins and cash flows from operating activities. Sharp and unexpected fluctuations in the cost of our raw materials and energy could adversely affect our profit margins. We use a variety of raw materials, chemicals and energy in our manufacturing and blending processes. Many of the raw materials that we use are derived from petrochemical-based feedstocks which can be subject to periods of rapid and significant price instability. These fluctuations in price can be caused by political instability in oil producing nations and elsewhere, or other factors influencing global supply and demand over which we have no or little control. Innospec does not typically enter into hedging arrangements with respect to raw materials, chemicals or energy costs. Should costs of raw materials, chemicals or energy increase, and should Innospec’s businesses not be able to pass on these cost increases to our customers, then operating margins and cash flows from operating activities would be negatively impacted. Should raw material prices increase significantly, then the Company’s need for working capital could increase which would negatively impact cash flows from operating activities. A disruption in the supply of raw materials or transportation services would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The chemical industry and transportation industry are in a situation where the supply and demand of both transportation services and the supply and demand of raw materials are in balance. Any significant disruption in supply could affect our ability to obtain raw materials or transportation services. This could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows from operating activities. We could be adversely affected by technological changes in our industry. Our ability to maintain or enhance our technological capabilities, develop and market products and applications that meet changing customer requirements, and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes in a cost effective and timely manner will likely impact our future business success. Technological changes in some or all of our customers’ products or processes may make our products obsolete and accordingly adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 10 Table of Contents Our Octane Additives business will continue to decline. Worldwide use of TEL has declined since 1973 following the enactment of the U.S. Clean Air Act of 1970 and similar legislation in other countries. The trend of countries exiting the leaded gasoline market has resulted in a general rate of decline in volume terms in recent years of between 10% and 25% per annum. The predicted remaining sales of the Octane Additives business are now concentrated in a relatively small number of customers and may decline with unpredictable volatility and severity. Should one or more of these customers choose for economic, environmental, political or other reasons to cease using TEL as an octane enhancer earlier than has been anticipated, then the Company’s future operating income and cash flows from operating activities would be negatively impacted. There could also be an accelerated write-off of Octane Additives business goodwill as the forecast discounted cash flows from that business would be reduced. The Company anticipates that eventually all countries in the world will stop the use of TEL in automotive gasoline. The Company expects that it will cease all sales of TEL for use in automotive gasoline at some time in the future. We face risks related to our foreign operations that may negatively affect our business. We serve global markets and accordingly operate in some countries which do not have stable economies or governments. Specifically, we trade in countries experiencing political and economic instability in the Middle East and Asia Pacific. Our international operations are subject to international business risks including, but not limited to, unsettled political conditions, expropriation, import and export restrictions, exchange controls, national and regional labor strikes, taxes, government royalties and restrictions on repatriation of earnings or proceeds from liquidated assets of foreign subsidiaries. The occurrence of any, or a combination, of these events could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows from operating activities. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, which may adversely affect our results of operations. The Company generates revenues and incurs operating costs in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, the financial position and results of operations of some of our foreign subsidiaries are reported in the relevant local currency and then translated to U.S. dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. Changes in exchange rates between these foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the recorded levels of our assets and liabilities, to the extent such figures reflect the inclusion of foreign assets and liabilities that are translated into U.S. dollars for presentation in our financial statements, as well as our results of operations. The primary foreign currencies in which we have exchange rate fluctuation exposure are the European Union euro and British pound sterling. The Company cannot accurately predict the nature or extent of future exchange rate variability. While the Company takes steps to manage currency exposure by entering into hedging transactions, this cannot eliminate all exposure to future exchange rate variability. Exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar 11 Table of Contents have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to do so in the future, which could materially impact our results of operations and financial position. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our future performance and cash flows. Our intellectual property, including trademarks, patents and licences, forms a significant part of the Company’s competitive strengths. We therefore depend on our ability to develop and protect our intellectual property rights to distinguish our products from those of our competitors. Failure to do so may result in the loss of valuable technologies, or our having to pay other companies for infringing their intellectual property rights. Measures taken by us to protect our intellectual property may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. We may also face patent infringement claims from our competitors which may result in substantial litigation costs, claims for damages or a tarnishing of our reputation even if we are successful in defending these claims, which may cause our customers to switch to our competitors. The occurrence of any, or a combination, of these events could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows from operating activities. We are subject to extensive government regulation. We are subject to regulation by local, state, federal and foreign governmental authorities. In some circumstances these authorities must approve our products, manufacturing processes and facilities before we may sell certain products. Many of the Company’s products are required to be registered with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and with comparable governmental agencies elsewhere. We are also subject to ongoing reviews of our products, manufacturing processes and facilities by governmental authorities including the requirement to produce product data. In order to obtain regulatory approval of certain new products we must, amongst other things, demonstrate to the relevant authority that the product is safe and effective for its intended uses, and that we are capable of manufacturing the product in accordance with current regulations. This approval process can be costly, time consuming, and subject to unanticipated and significant delays. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that approvals will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. Any delay in obtaining, or any failure to obtain or maintain, these approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new products and to generate income from those products. New laws and regulations may be introduced in the future that could result in additional compliance costs and prevent or inhibit the development, distribution and sale of our products. The European Union has approved additional legislation known as the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemical Substances Regulations (“REACH”) which requires most of the Company’s products to be registered with EU Authorities. Under this legislation the Company has to demonstrate the continuing safety of its products. During this registration period the Company will incur expense to test and register its products. The Company estimates that the cost of complying with REACH will be no more than $5 million 12 Table of Contents incurred over the next 3 to 5 year period. While the Company expects that its products will be approved for registration after testing it is possible that certain products may not be registered if the test data proves unsatisfactory. In such an outcome some of the Company’s products may be restricted or prohibited in the EU. This could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The Company is currently the subject of an inquiry by the SEC into potential violations of federal securities law as a result of transactions conducted by the Company’s wholly owned indirect subsidiary, Alcor Chemie Vertriebs GmbH, under the United Nations Oil for Food Program. Separately, the Company has made a voluntary disclosure to U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) regarding dealings with Cuba by certain of the Company’s current and former subsidiaries. The Company has made provision for legal expenses and potential penalties in respect of these matters to the extent this is feasible. However should the Company’s estimates prove to be inadequate then this could have a material impact upon the Company’s operating income and cash flows from operating activities. Legal proceedings and other claims, including proceedings against Ethyl, could impose substantial costs on us. We are occasionally involved in legal proceedings that result from, and are incidental to, the conduct of our business, including product liability claims. We have insurance coverage to mitigate any potential damages in any such proceedings, however if our insurance did not cover such claims, then this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Additionally, we are involved in a number of arbitrations in the London Court of International Arbitration against Ethyl. In the first of these proceedings, which relate to supplies of TEL to the United States, we are seeking to increase the price of TEL charged to Ethyl. In the further arbitration proceedings, we are seeking to terminate the sales and marketing agreements governing the global sales and marketing of TEL outside North America. We are additionally claiming in excess of $40 million damages because we believe Ethyl has violated the agreements. We remain confident in our position, however costs may be substantial, although we do not believe they will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Environmental matters could have a substantial negative impact on our results of operations. The Company is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning emissions to the air, discharges to land and water and the generation, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials. The Company is also required to obtain various environmental permits and licenses many of which require periodic notification and renewal. The Company operates on a number of manufacturing sites. The Company’s historic operations, and the historic operations of companies who have previously operated on sites 13 Table of Contents that the Company has acquired, entail the risk of environmental contamination of the properties that it owns or has owned. This may result in fines or criminal sanctions against the Company or may entail the Company in material costs to remediate historic contamination. The Company further anticipates that certain production facilities may cease production in the medium to long-term. On closure of some of these production operations in the future, the Company expects to be subject to environmental laws that will require production facilities to be safely decommissioned and a degree of environmental remediation to be undertaken. The degree of environmental remediation will depend upon the plans for the future use of the operating sites that are affected and the environmental legislation in force at the time. The Company has currently made a decommissioning and remediation provision based on the Company’s current obligations, the current plans for those sites and current environmental legislation. Should the Company’s future plans for the sites change or should environmental legislation change then these provisions may prove inadequate and this will have a negative impact on future operating income and cash flows from operating activities. The terms of our credit agreements may restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness or to otherwise expand our business. The Company’s existing credit facilities contain restrictive clauses which may constrain our activities and limit our operational and financial flexibility. These clauses limit our ability, among other matters, to increase indebtedness, use assets as security in other transactions, dispose of assets, acquire assets or investments, and pay dividends or repurchase common stock. The current credit facilities require the Company to meet certain financial ratios including net debt to EBITDA (as defined in the credit facility) and net interest expense to EBITA (as defined in the credit facility). The ability to meet these financial covenants depends upon the future operating performance of the businesses. If the Company fails to meet target covenants then it would be in technical default on the borrowing facility and the maturity of the outstanding debt could be accelerated unless it were able to obtain waivers from the lenders. The Company expects to need to refinance some of the existing debt at the end of the remaining two and a half year term of the current borrowing facility. Should the Company not be able to secure refinancing on satisfactory terms at that point this may adversely impact continuing operations. Our business is subject to the risk of production or transportation interruptions, the occurrence of any of which would adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to hazards common to chemical manufacturing, blending, storage, handling and transportation including fires, explosions, mechanical failure, transportation interruptions, remediation, chemical spills and the release or discharge of toxic or hazardous substances. These hazards could result in loss of life, property damage, environmental contamination and temporary or permanent production cessation. Any, or a combination, of these factors could 14 Table of Contents negatively impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows from operating activities. We may be required to make additional contributions to the defined benefit pension scheme that we operate in the United Kingdom. The Company operates a contributory defined benefit plan in the United Kingdom. The plan is closed to new entrants, without trustee discretion, but has a large number of deferred and current pensioners. Should future investment returns prove insufficient to meet future obligations, or should future obligations increase due to actuarial factors or changes in pension legislation, then the Company may be required to make additional cash contributions. This could have a material impact on future operating income and cash flows from operating activities. Domestic or international natural disasters or terrorist attacks may disrupt our operations, decrease the demand for our products or otherwise have a negative impact on our business. Chemical related assets, and United States corporations such as ourselves, may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other possible targets in the United States, United Kingdom and throughout the world. The occurrence of such events cannot be predicted though they can be expected to continue to negatively impact the economy in general and our specific markets. The resulting damage from such an event could include loss of life, property damage or site closure. Any, or a combination, of these factors could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows from operating activities. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 Table of Contents 