Item 1A Risk Factors 14 Item 2 Properties 24 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 25 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters 26 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 27 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 36 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 59 Item 9A(T) Controls and Procedures 59 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 60 Item 11 Executive Compensation 60 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 60 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 60 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 60 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 61 Signatures 62 EXHIBIT 10.1 EXHIBIT 10.1(F) EXHIBIT 10.1(G) EXHIBIT 10.26 EXHIBIT 21.1 EXHIBIT 23.1 EXHIBIT 31.1 EXHIBIT 31.2 EXHIBIT 32.1 EXHIBIT 32.2 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 based on current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and our management’s beliefs and assumptions. When used in this Form 10-K and elsewhere, the words “believes,” “plans,” “estimates,” “intends,” “anticipates,” “seeks” and “expects” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from those anticipated or expressed in such statements as a result of a variety of factors, including those set forth under Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to the following: • The development of the smart device market and our ability to address its opportunities and challenges; • The adoption of Windows CE, Windows XP Embedded, Pocket PC and Smartphone as operating systems of choice for many smart device hardware and software applications vendors; • Our business plan and our strategy for implementing our plan; • Our ability to expand our strategic relationships with hardware and software vendors; • Our ability to maintain our relationship with Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft); • Our ability to address challenges and opportunities in the international marketplace; • Our ability to develop our technology and expand our proprietary software and service offerings; and • Our anticipated working capital needs and capital expenditure requirements, including our ability to meet our anticipated cash needs. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Readers, however, should carefully review the factors set forth in this and other reports or documents that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 3 Table of Contents BUSINESS Overview As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, “we,” “us” and “our” refer to BSQUARE Corporation. We provide software and engineering service offerings to the smart device marketplace. A smart device is a dedicated purpose computing device that typically has the ability to display information, runs an operating system (e.g., Microsoft® Windows® CE 6.0) and may be connected to a network via a wired or wireless connection. Examples of smart devices that we target include set-top boxes, home gateways, point-of-sale terminals, kiosks, voting machines, gaming platforms, personal digital assistants (PDAs), handheld data collection devices, personal media players and smartphones. We primarily focus on smart devices that utilize embedded versions of the Microsoft Windows family of operating systems, specifically Windows CE, Windows XP Embedded and Windows Mobiletm. However, with our recent acquisition of customers and rights to license Adobe Flash technology from NEC Corporation of America (NECAM), we expect to support customers who are using Adobe Flash technology in other operating systems such as Linux or Symbian. We have been providing software and engineering services to the smart device marketplace since our inception. Our customers include world class original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), original design manufacturers (ODMs), silicon vendors (SVs), peripheral vendors, and enterprises that develop, market and distribute smart devices. The software and engineering services we provide our customers are utilized and deployed throughout various phases of our customers’ device life cycle, including design, development, customization, quality assurance and deployment. We were incorporated in the State of Washington in July 1994. Our principal office is located at 110 110th Avenue NE, Suite 200, Bellevue, Washington 98004, and our telephone number is (425) 519-5900. Industry Background The increasing need for connectivity among both business and consumer users is driving demand for easy-to-use, cost-effective and customizable methods of electronic communication. Although the personal computer (PC) has been the traditional means of electronically connecting suppliers, partners, customers and employees, the benefits of “smart devices” have led to their rapid adoption as a new class of powerful technology. Smart devices are particularly attractive to businesses and consumers because they are often less expensive than desktop and laptop computers; have adaptable configurations, including size, weight and shape; and are able to support a variety of customized applications and user interfaces that can be designed for specific tasks. These devices also are typically compatible with existing business information systems. The smart device industry is characterized by a wide variety of hardware configurations and end-user applications, often designed to address a specific vertical market. To accommodate these diverse characteristics in a cost-effective manner, OEMs and ODMs require operating systems that can be integrated with a diverse set of smart devices and can support an expanding range of industry-specific functionality, content and applications. The Microsoft Windows family of embedded operating systems — specifically Windows CE, Windows Mobile and Windows XP Embedded — helps satisfy these requirements because it leverages the existing industry-wide base of Microsoft Windows developers and technology standards, can be customized to operate across a variety of smart devices and integrate with existing information systems, offers Internet connectivity, and reduces systems requirements compared to traditional PC operating systems. The smart device marketplace is being influenced by the following factors: • Growing demand by business professionals and high-end consumers for converged mobile devices that combine telephony, data (such as email and internet browsing), multimedia and location awareness is driving new sophisticated smart device designs by our OEM and ODM customers; • The ubiquity of cellular and WLAN wireless networks is driving rapid adoption of smart devices that leverage broadband and high-speed wireless data networks, including Internet Protocol (IP) set-top boxes, 4 Table of Contents voice-over-IP (VoIP) phones, residential gateways, and home networking solutions linking smart devices with PCs; • The baseline expectation for device functionality continues to grow. Users of smart devices expect to be able to access email and the Internet and synchronize their devices with corporate data sources. Microsoft embedded operating systems are already well positioned to leverage this trend with built-in synchronization capabilities, access to Exchange email servers, and similar functionality; • Security is becoming an increasingly important concern as devices are able to access networks and store sensitive information locally such as email, spreadsheets and other documents. Users are demanding that these types of information be protected in the same ways they are protected on the desktop; • Higher bandwidth networks coupled with the larger displays and increased processing power found on new devices means that more multi-media content will be available to devices — increasing demand for digital rights management, content management and related technologies; and • Increases in device complexity driven by rising user expectations of functionality, complex device interactions with wireless networks and updated versions of the Microsoft operating systems, all of which are driving OEMs and ODMs to continually refresh and update their device designs. Software and Service Solutions for Smart Device Makers Our customers include world class OEMs and ODMs, device component suppliers such as SVs and peripheral vendors and enterprises with customized device needs such as retailers and field service organizations. Representative customer relationships in 2007 included: • A large North American OEM continued to engage us to assist in the development and testing of mobile office phones; • Palm, Inc. continued to engage us to provide engineering services for its series of Windows Mobile Smartphone devices; • An SV engaged us to assist in the development of a series of board support packages (BSPs) in support of various processors; • Several large Asian ODMs engaged us to assist in the development of new lines of Windows Mobile-based handheld devices; • A large North American retail vendor engaged us to assist in creating a next-generation kiosk and point-of-sale device; • A large North American SV engaged us to assist in developing several Windows Mobile BSPs in support of its new line of processors focused on the handset market; and • We licensed our SDIO, DevKit, Schema and Productivity+ technology to many North American and Asian OEMs and ODMs for inclusion in their smart devices. We offer a range of software products to our customers for the development and deployment of smart devices, including both those of third parties and our own proprietary software products, along with our engineering service offerings. Our goal is to increase the breadth and depth of our software product and engineering service offerings to smart device customers to enhance our position as an overall solutions provider. Third-Party Software Products We have multiple license and distribution agreements with third-party software vendors. Our ability to resell these third-party software products, whether stand-alone or in conjunction with our own proprietary software and 5 Table of Contents engineering service offerings, provides our customers with a significant solution source for their smart device project needs. Our third-party software offerings include the following: • We are a Microsoft authorized Value-Added Provider (VAP) of Windows Embedded operating systems and toolkits for Windows CE, Windows XP/NT Embedded, Windows XP Professional with Embedded Restrictions, Windows Server with Embedded Restrictions, Windows XP Embedded for Point of Sale and Microsoft “Classic” operating systems with Embedded restrictions, including DOS and Windows 98/2000/ME/NT. The majority of our revenue in 2007 was earned through the resale of Microsoft Embedded operating systems; • In December 2007, we acquired the Adobe Flash consulting and distribution business from NECAM. Included with this acquisition is the right to distribute Adobe Flash licenses to OEMs and ODMs and other smart device manufacturers world-wide; • In December 2007, we entered into a reseller agreement with Solidcore Systems, Inc. (Solidcore) to be the exclusive distributor of Solidcore’s S3 Control Embeddedtm software to OEMs in North America; and • We sub-license and resell other third-party software such as the Esmertec Jeode Java Virtual Machine (JVM) under our JEM-CEtm brand name and Datalight Inc.’s FlashFX and Reliance products. Proprietary Software Products Our proprietary software offerings include: • SDIO Hx — SDIO (Secure Digital Input Output) is an industry standard format that allows very small form-factor peripheral and memory cards to be used with smart devices. Our SDIO solutions have become the industry standard software development kit used by OEMs, ODMs and peripheral vendors who are creating SDIO solutions for smart devices utilizing Microsoft Windows CE and Windows Mobile operating systems. There are currently over 100 licensees of our SDIO technology. During 2007, we released several new versions of our SDIO Hx technology that enhanced performance, supported new versions of the SD and MMC associations specifications and supported new silicon architectures. We expect to continue to update our SDIO Hx technology into the forseeable future. Microsoft has incorporated our SDIO Now! v1.1 technology into its CE 5.0 and Windows Mobile 5.0 operating systems. While the SDIO Hx versions of software have functionality and performance enhancements not found in the SDIO Now! v2.0, there can be no assurance that the inclusion of the SDIO Now! v2.0 software in the base Microsoft operating systems will not have a detrimental effect on sales of the SDIO Hx software. • Productivity+ — Productivity+ is a middleware stack that provides Personal Information Management (PIM) functionality on Windows CE-based devices such as email, calendar and contacts. Our Productivity+ product is derived from technology originally developed for our discontinued Power Handheld product. • Media+ Portable Media Player — Media+ is a digital media-management and player software solution based on Microsoft® Windows® CE 5.0 that enables OEMs to quickly enter the growing market for PMP players, a new product category that enables consumers to enjoy movies and video clips, view family photos, and listen to music on a single mobile device. • DevkitIDP Development Platforms — Our DevkitIDP line of Marvell XScale o Technology-based development platforms accelerate time to market for OEMs, ODMs and enterprises building Windows CE 5.0, Windows CE 6.0 and Windows Mobile 5.0 embedded devices. We currently ship Devkit 255, DevKit 270, and DevKit 3XX (the DevKit 3XX family includes support for the PXA300, PXA310 and PXA320 application processors.) We intend to introduce additional development platforms in the future which may be based on other silicon vendors processor families. Our Devkit products uniquely offer a wide variety of peripheral chips and multiple expansion slots, which provides developers valuable flexibility in the early stages of development when device functionality is being validated. • SchemaBSP — Our SchemaBSP tool reduces customer development efforts. SchemaBSP offers a revolutionary three-step process that, when used in conjunction with Microsoft Platform Builder, reduces Windows CE board bring up time by up to 40%. Once a BSP is created with SchemaBSP, the architecture of the tool enables code reuse across multiple product lines, easy BSP updates when new hardware features are added to a design, and quick migration to new OS versions of Windows CE. 6 Table of Contents Software revenue for the last two fiscal years was as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 Software revenue: Third-party software $ 34,157 $ 30,317 Proprietary software 4,241 2,617 Total software revenue $ 38,398 $ 32,934 Software revenue as a percentage of total revenue 65 % 66 % Third-party software revenue as a percentage of total software revenue 89 % 92 % The resale of Microsoft Embedded operating systems and related products accounts for substantially all of our historical third-party software revenue. Engineering Service Offerings We provide Windows Embedded and Windows Mobile smart device makers with consulting and professional engineering services including: • Device solution strategy consulting; • Software and hardware design and development services; • Platform development systems integration; • Radio Interface Layer (RIL) development and testing • Application, middleware and multimedia software development; • Quality assurance and testing services; • Hardware design, prototype and product development services; • Mechanical and ID design services; • Customer technical support; and • Platform development and quality assurance training. Customers utilize our engineering service offerings due to our extensive experience developing new devices and because of our deep experience with Windows Embedded and Windows Mobile operating systems. We believe that engaging BSQUARE on a new device design typically results in shorter development cycles and reduced time-to-market, lower overall costs to complete projects, and product robustness and features, which a customer may have been unable to achieve through other means. Revenue from professional engineering services for the last two fiscal years was as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 Total service revenue $ 20,956 $ 16,881 Service revenue as a percentage of total revenue 35 % 34 % 7 Table of Contents Strategy Our strategy is to continue to enhance our position as a leading provider of smart device software and services, ultimately becoming a go-to solutions provider for smart device makers. To advance this strategy, we intend to focus on the following areas: • Enhance our proprietary software product portfolio to generate additional revenue, particularly higher margin revenue, through which will have the added benefit of increasing opportunities to sell engineering services and third-party software products to our customers. During 2007, we increased our level of research and development in conjunction with the our DevKitIDP product family. During the year we actively invested in new versions of our DevKit designs to support new PXA3XX family application processors from Marvell. We also invested in a new line of DevKit designs for a new family of application processors from Texas Instruments. We are continuing to execute and evolve our product strategy and during 2008, we expect to continue to focus on developing new DevKit offerings as well as more specific verticalized reference design offerings. A key element of our strategy is the expansion of our proprietary products that we license to our smart device customers. We believe that the continuing complexity and demands of device development will require our customers to seek out partners that are able to provide more complete device software solutions that can be quickly customized and brought to market; • Provide our North American customers of Windows Embedded operating systems with additional product offerings as they become available from Microsoft. For example, in 2007, Microsoft made available to its authorized distributors the Window Embedded CE 6.0 R2 operating system, which is targeted at the general device market; • Expand our engineering service offerings by adding new packaged engineering services, engineering capabilities, training and custom consulting offerings. For example, during 2007 we focused on developing new multi-media and radio service offerings. We also developed and began offering to our customers a new Device Validation Test suite; • Leverage the significant number of customers gained through our resale of Microsoft Embedded operating systems by selling these customers additional software and service offerings. In each year, we typically sell Microsoft Embedded operating systems to over 800 unique customers. During 2007, our revenue from customers that also purchased our service offerings increased approximately 34% from 2006; • Increase revenue as a result of our purchase of assets from NECAM and our distribution agreement with Solidcore, which occurred in December 2007, which will allow us to provide a greater suite of value-added solutions to OEMs; and • Increase revenue derived from our international customers, particularly by focusing on growing sales in the Asia-Pacific region. Relationship with Microsoft and Impact on our Smart Device Solutions Business We have a long-standing relationship with Microsoft and this relationship is critical to the continuing success of our business. Our credentials as a Microsoft partner include: • We are one of Microsoft’s largest distributors of embedded operating systems worldwide; • We are a Windows Embedded Gold-level Systems Integrator; • During 2007, we became a Microsoft Gold Certified Partner in Microsoft’s general partner program; • We were the Microsoft Systems Integrator of the Year for 2006; • We are a developer and provider of Microsoft Official Curriculum Training for Windows CE and Windows XP Embedded; • We are a leading systems integrator for Microsoft’s Windows Mobile device development projects; • We are a Preferred Provider of Visual Tools for Microsoft; 8 Table of Contents • We are a Gold-level member of Microsoft’s Third-Party Tools Provider Program; • We are an authorized Microsoft Windows CE-for-Automotive Solutions Integrator; and • We have been engaged by Microsoft on various service engagements. We work closely with Microsoft executives, developers, and product managers. We leverage these relationships in a variety of ways, including: • We gain early access to new Microsoft embedded software and other technologies; • We are able to leverage co-marketing resources from Microsoft, including market development funds, to support our own marketing and sales efforts; • We participate in Microsoft-sponsored trade shows, seminars, and other events; • We receive sales leads from Microsoft that enable us to sell our software and service offerings to more customers; • We receive rebates based upon predefined objectives and our Microsoft Embedded operating systems sales volume; and • We participate in Windows Embedded and Windows Mobile design reviews, enabling early access to product roadmap information wherein we provide important technical and customer feedback. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for more information regarding our relationship with Microsoft. Customers Customers of our smart device software and engineering service offerings include leading OEMs, ODMs, enterprises, SVs and peripheral vendors seeking to leverage the benefits of Windows Embedded and other operating systems to develop high-quality, full-featured smart devices that meet the requirements of numerous end-markets. Representative customers include Arima Communications, Co., DT Research, Inc., Hand Held Products, Inc., Micros Systems, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Motorola, Inc., PalmOne, Inc., Qualcomm Inc., RGIS, LLC, Rite Aid Corporation, Solectron USA, Inc. and Tyco Electronics. Sales and Marketing We market our smart device software and engineering services to OEMs, ODMs, enterprises, SVs and peripheral vendors predominantly through our direct sales force located in the United States, Taipei, Taiwan and Tokyo, Japan. We do not make significant use of resellers, channel partners, representative agents or other indirect channels. Key elements of our sales and marketing strategy include direct marketing, trade shows, event marketing, public relations, customer and strategic alliance partner co-marketing programs and a comprehensive website. We rely significantly on lead referral and other marketing support programs from strategic partners, particularly Microsoft. Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development and release of our reference design and proprietary software products. Members of our research and development staff work closely with our sales and marketing departments, as well as with our customers and potential customers, to better understand market needs and requirements. We perform our research and development primarily utilizing our engineering staff located in Bellevue, Washington and Akron, Ohio. During 2008, we expect to increasingly perform research and development activities in our Taipei, Taiwan facility. 9 Table of Contents Competition The market for Windows-based embedded software and services is extremely competitive. We face competition from the following: • Our current and potential customers’ internal research and development departments, which may seek to develop their own proprietary products and solutions that compete with our proprietary software products and engineering services; • Engineering service firms, including off-shore development companies, such as Intrinsyc, Vanteon, Teleca and Wipro; • ODMs, particularly those in Taiwan, which have or are adding software development capabilities to their offerings; • Contract manufacturers, which are adding software development capabilities to their offerings; and • Microsoft Embedded operating system distributors such as Arrow and Avnet. Larger customers of Microsoft Embedded operating systems are typically knowledgeable of the competing distributors in the North American market and, consequently, will often put large orders out to bid amongst the distributors, which can create margin pressure and make it difficult to maintain long-term relationships with these customers. The gross profit margin on sales of Microsoft Embedded Windows licenses is relatively low, historically about 14% on average. There can be no assurance that gross profit on future sales will not decline given these competitive pressures. As we develop new product and service offerings, particularly offerings focused on specific industries, we may begin competing with companies with which we have not previously competed. It is also possible that new competitors will enter the market or that our competitors will form alliances, including alliances with Microsoft, that may enable them to rapidly increase their market share. Microsoft has not agreed to any exclusive arrangement with us, nor has it agreed not to compete with us. Microsoft may decide to bring more of the core embedded development services and expertise that we provide in-house, possibly resulting in reduced software and service revenue opportunities for us. The barrier to entering the market as a provider of Windows-based smart device software and services is low. In addition, Microsoft has created marketing programs to encourage systems integrators to work on Windows Embedded operating system software and services. These systems integrators are given substantially the same access by Microsoft to the Windows technology as we are. New competitors may have lower overhead than we do and may be able to undercut our pricing. We expect that competition will increase as other established and emerging companies enter the Windows-based smart device market, and as new products and technologies are introduced. International Operations During 2007, our international operations outside of North America consisted principally of subsidiaries and operations in Taipei, Taiwan and Tokyo, Japan. Because our OEM Distribution Agreement with Microsoft restricts our resale of Microsoft Embedded operating systems to North America, including Mexico, our foreign operations have traditionally focused on the sale of our own proprietary software products, particularly SDIO Hx, DevKit, Schema, Productivity+, and engineering services. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we reestablished a direct sales presence in Tokyo, Japan. We intend to continue to rebuild our capability to sell software products and services in Japan during 2008 and also plan on broadening our sales presence throughout the Asia-Pacific marketplace. We have also grown our headcount in our Taipei, Taiwan location and expect to continue to grow this headcount in 2008. We increase hardware and software development in our lower cost Taipei location in 2008 in support of our customers in North America and Asia. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for more information regarding our international operations. 10 Table of Contents Personnel The following highlights the number of employees by area: December 31, 2007 2006 Professional Engineering Services 103 109 Research and Product Development 15 12 Sales, Marketing and Administrative 57 49 Total 175 170 Of these employees, 140 are located in the United States, 9 are located in Canada and 26 are located in Taiwan. In addition, from time to time, we employ temporary employees, consultants and contractors. As of December 31, 2007, we employed 23 contractors compared to 41 at December 31, 2006. As conditions necessitate, periodically professional engineering service employees will perform research and development activities and vice versa. Intellectual Property and Other Proprietary Rights Our intellectual property is critical to our success. In general, we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and through contractual arrangements. However, we cannot be certain that our efforts will be effective to prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, or to prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to, or competitive with those developed by us. Additionally, because a significant portion of our revenue relates to the resale of third-party software products, we also rely on our partners, particularly Microsoft, to appropriately protect their own intellectual property. We currently have six issued patents in the United States and we have a number of registered trademarks in various jurisdictions. We will continue to pursue appropriate protections for our intellectual property. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for more information regarding our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Available Information We are a reporting company and file annual, quarterly and current reports and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549... You also may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information we file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Our Internet website can be found at www.bsquare.com. We make available free of charge through the investor relations section of our website, under “SEC Filings,” all our filings, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. 11 Table of Contents Directors and Executive Officers The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our directors and executive officers as of January 31, 2008. Name Age Positions Donald B. Bibeault 66 Chairman of the Board Brian T. Crowley 47 President and Chief Executive Officer, Director Elwood D. Howse, Jr. 68 Director Elliott H. Jurgensen, Jr. 63 Director Scot E. Land 53 Director William D. Savoy 43 Director Kendra A. VanderMeulen 56 Director Carey E. Butler 53 Vice President, Professional Engineering Services Rajesh Khera 38 Vice President, Products Scott C. Mahan 43 Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer; Secretary and Treasurer Larry C. Stapleton 45 Vice President, North American Sales Donald B. Bibeault has been our Chairman of the Board since July 2003. His term of office as a director expires at this year’s Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Mr. Bibeault is currently President of Bibeault & Associates, Inc. a turnaround-consulting firm, a position he has held since 1975. During that period, Mr. Bibeault has served as chairman, chief executive officer, or chief operating officer of numerous corporations, including Pacific States Steel, PLM International, Best Pipe and Steel, Inc., Ironstone Group, Inc., American National Petroleum, Inc., Tyler-Dawson Supply and Iron Oak Supply Corporation. He has also served as special turnaround advisor to the CEOs of Silicon Graphics Inc., Varity Corporation, Bank of America amongst others. In 2005, Dr. Bibeault was given the first ever Lifetime Achievement Award by the Association of Certified Turnaround Professionals (ACTP). He has been a member of the Board of Overseers of Columbia Business School, a trustee of Golden Gate University, a member of the University of Rhode Island Business Advisory Board, and the Board of Visitors of Golden Gate University Law School. Mr. Bibeault received a B.S. in electrical engineering from the University of Rhode Island, a M.B.A. from Columbia University and a Ph.D from Golden Gate University. He is also a recipient of a Doctor of Laws degree (honoris causa) from Golden Gate University Law School. Donald Bibeault was commissioned through ROTC and served as an officer in the U.S. Army Combat Engineers. Brian T. Crowley has been our President and Chief Executive Officer since July 2003. His term of office as a director expires at this year’s Annual Meeting of Shareholders. From April 2002 to July 2003, Mr. Crowley served as our Vice President, Product Development. From December 1999 to November 2001, Mr. Crowley held various positions at DataChannel, a market leader in enterprise portals, including Vice President of Engineering and Vice President of Marketing. From April 1999 to December 1999, Mr. Crowley was Vice President, Operations of Consortio, a software company. From December 1997 to April 1999, Mr. Crowley was Director of Development at Sequel Technology, a network solutions provider. From 1986 to December 1997, Mr. Crowley held various positions at Applied Microsystems Corporation, including Vice President and General Manager of the Motorola products and quality assurance divisions. Mr. Crowley also serves as a director of the WSA (formerly Washington Software Association). Mr. Crowley holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Arizona State University. Elwood D. Howse, Jr. has been a director of BSQUARE since November 2002. His current term of office as a director expires at the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Mr. Howse was formerly President of Cable & Howse Ventures, a Northwest venture capital management firm formed in 1977. Mr. Howse also participated in the founding of Cable, Howse and Ragen, investment banking and stock brokerage firm, today owned by Wells Fargo and known as Ragen MacKenzie. Mr. Howse has served as corporate director and advisor to various public, private and non-profit enterprises. He served on the board of the National Venture Capital Association and is past President of the Stanford Business School Alumni Association. He currently serves on the boards of directors of Formotus, Inc., OrthoLogic Corporation, Perlego Systems Inc., PowerTech Group, Inc. and not-for profits Junior Achievement Worldwide and Junior Achievement of Washington. He has served on a number of other corporate boards in the 12 Table of Contents past. Mr. Howse received both a B.S. in engineering and a M.B.A. from Stanford University and served in the U.S. Navy submarine force. Elliott H. Jurgensen, Jr. has been a director of BSQUARE since January 2003. His term of office as a director expires at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Mr. Jurgensen retired from KPMG LLP in 2003 after 32 years, including 23 years as an audit partner. During his career he held a number of leadership roles, including Managing Partner of the Bellevue, Washington office of KPMG from 1982 to 1991, and Managing Partner of the Seattle, Washington office of KPMG from 1993 to 2002. He is also a director of McCormick & Schmick’s Seafood Restaurants, Inc., Isilon Systems, Inc., Varolii Corporation and ASC Management, Inc. Mr. Jurgensen has a B.S. in accounting from San Jose State University. Scot E. Land has been a director of BSQUARE since February 1998. His term of office as a director expires at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Mr. Land is currently the managing director of the Technology Development Corporation, a firm specializing in commercialization of university-created ideas and in that capacity is an officer and director of several private technology firms including CEO of Palantir Analytics Corporation which is engaged in early detection of biological events that could lead to epidemics and director of Corazonx Inc, which is engaged in early stage coronary disease detection. During 2006, Mr. Land served as Executive Director, Program on Technology Commercialization, University of Washington. Prior to joining the faculty of the UW, Mr. Land was a managing director of Cascadia Capital LLC. Mr. Land was a founder and managing director of Encompass Ventures from September 1997 to July 2005, Mr. Land was a Senior Technology Analyst and Strategic Planning Consultant with Microsoft from June 1995 to September 1997, and a technology research analyst and investment banker for First Marathon Securities, a Canadian investment bank, from September 1993 to April 1995. From October 1988 to February 1993, Mr. Land was the President and Chief Executive Officer of InVision Technologies, (a wholly owned subsidiary of GE) founded by Mr. Land in October 1988, that designs and manufacturers high-speed computer-aided topography systems for automatic explosives detection for aviation security. Prior to founding InVision Technologies, Mr. Land served as a principal in the international consulting practice of Ernst & Young LLP, a public accounting firm, from April 1984 to October 1988. Mr. Land serves as a director of several privately held companies. William D. Savoy has been a director of BSQUARE since May 2004. His current term of office as a director expires at the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Between 2004 and 2007, Mr. Savoy consulted with The Muckleshoot Indian Tribe on investment-related matters, strategic planning and economic development. Mr. Savoy served as a consultant for Vulcan Inc., an investment entity that manages the personal financial activities of Paul Allen, from September 2003 to December 2005. Vulcan Inc. resulted from the consolidation in 2000 of Vulcan Ventures Inc., a venture capital fund, and Vulcan Northwest. Mr. Savoy served in various capacities at Vulcan Inc. and its predecessors from 1988 to September 2003, most recently as the president of the portfolio and asset management division, managing Vulcan’s commercial real estate, hedge fund, treasury and other financial activities, and as the president of both Vulcan Northwest and Vulcan Ventures. Mr. Savoy served as the president and chief executive officer of Layered, Inc., a software company, from June 1989 until its sale in June 1990 and as its chief financial officer from August 1988 to June 1989. He is also a director of Drugstore.com, where he is a member of the audit committee and chairman of the compensation committee. Mr. Savoy received a B.S. in computer science, accounting and finance from Atlantic Union College. Kendra VanderMeulen has been a director at BSQUARE since March 2005. Her term of office as a director expires at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Ms. VanderMeulen is currently the President of the Seattle Christian Foundation. She recently served as executive vice president, Mobile at InfoSpace, and is an active board member or advisor to a variety of companies in the wireless Internet arena, including Perlego Systems, Inc., and Inrix, Inc. Ms. VanderMeulen joined AT&T Wireless (formerly McCaw Cellular Communications, now Cingular) in 1994 to lead the formation of the wireless data division. Prior to McCaw, Ms. VanderMeulen served as COO and president of the Communications Systems Group of Cincinnati Bell Information Systems (now Convergys). She also held a variety of business and technical management positions at AT&T in the fields of software development, voice processing, and signaling systems. Ms. VanderMeulen received a BS degree in mathematics from Marietta College and a MS degree in computer science from Ohio State University. She is the recipient of the 1999 Catherine B. Cleary award as the outstanding woman leader of AT&T. 13 Table of Contents Carey E. Butler has been our Vice President, Professional Engineering Services since November 2003 and directs development teams located in Washington State and Taiwan. From 2002 to 2003, Ms. Butler served as Western Region Area Manager at Information Builders, a business intelligence software and services company. From 2000 to 2001, Ms. Butler was Vice President at Aris Corporation, a professional services company, and from 1996 to 2000 was Partner at BDO Seidman, LLP, a public accounting and management consulting firm. From 1990 to 1996, Ms. Butler was Principal of Performance Computing, Inc., a technology consulting company, subsequently sold to BDO Seidman. From 1982 to 1990, Ms. Butler was Vice President of Operations, Sales and Marketing of Mytec, Inc., a value-added reseller of turnkey financial systems. Ms. Butler holds a B.A. in Business, Quantitative Methods (Computer Science) from University of Washington. Rajesh Khera has been Vice President of Products since October 2007. He is responsible for managing BSQUARE’s current product lines and for developing and driving new product strategy and execution. From 2004 to 2007, Mr. Khera was Director of Mobile Solutions at RealNetworks, Inc. where he managed global business strategy for media delivery solutions, services and products. While at RealNetworks, he helped build a media delivery service business from the ground up. Mr. Khera has also held various management roles at VeriSign from 2002 to 2003 and at Microsoft from 1993 to 2001. Mr. Khera was VP of Engineering & Marketing at Ensoftek, a technology startup, from 2001 to 2002 and worked at Lizard Tech, a digital image and document technology company, as a Director of Product Management from 2003 to 2004. Mr. Khera holds a Bachelor of Computer Engineering from Maulana Azad National Institute of Technology in Bhopal, India, a Masters in Computer Science from Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, VA, and an MBA from University of Chicago. Scott C. Mahan has been our Vice President, Finance, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer since January 2004. From October 2003 to December 2003, Mr. Mahan served as a consultant to BSQUARE. From February 2003 to July 2003, Mr. Mahan served as the Interim CFO and Head of Business & Corporate Development at Cranium, Inc., a games manufacturer. From March 2002 to November 2002, Mr. Mahan served as Chief Operating Officer at Xylo, Inc., a company that provides human resource technology and services to Fortune 1000 companies, and from June 1998 to December 2001 as CFO and Vice President, Administration at Qpass, Inc, a provider of billing serves to wireless carriers. From September 1996 to May 1998, Mr. Mahan served as Director of Finance at Sequel Technology Corporation, a company that delivered licensed software for the network traffic monitoring market. From August 1994 to August 1996, Mr. Mahan was Controller of Spry, Inc., an Internet software company and Internet service provider. Prior to that, Mr. Mahan was the Assistant Corporate Controller at Paccar Inc. from August 1993 to July 1994 and was an Audit Manager at Ernst & Young LLP in Seattle where he was employed from July 1987 to August 1993. Mr. Mahan holds a B.S. in Management from Tulane University. Larry C. Stapleton has been our Vice President of North America Sales since March 2005. Mr. Stapleton is responsible for sales of professional engineering services, products and distribution. Prior to joining BSQUARE, Mr. Stapleton served as Vice President of Global Business Development at Terabeam from November 1999 to April 2004, where he was responsible for developing telecom carrier business for broadband wireless access equipment in Asia and managing employees and VAR partnerships in Singapore, Malaysia, Japan, China, Philippines, and South Korea. Prior to that, Mr. Stapleton served as Terabeam’s Vice President, Product Development, responsible for developing all of Terabeam’s optical telecommunications equipment. From November 1997 to November 1999, Mr. Stapleton was Vice President of Sales and Marketing for SelfCHARGE, a contract product design and manufacturing (ODM) startup developing products for the medical, consumer and industrial markets. Before that he was Senior Director of Client Services at Teague from April 1992 to November 1997, generating designs for AT&T, Microsoft, John Deere, and many other Fortune 500 companies. He also has held a variety of product development, marketing, and engineering positions with several Fortune 100 companies. His degrees include an M.B.A. from University of Washington and a B.S., Mechanical Engineering, from San Jose State University. Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Microsoft-Related Risk Factors Due to the market that we serve and, in particular, our focus on devices utilizing Microsoft’s Windows Embedded operating systems as well as the fact that a significant portion of our revenue is derived from the resale of Microsoft Embedded operating systems, Microsoft has a significant direct and indirect influence on our business. The following represent several Microsoft-related risk factors which may negatively impact our business and operating results. If we do not maintain our OEM Distribution Agreement with Microsoft, our revenue would decrease and our business would be adversely affected. We have an OEM Distribution Agreement (ODA) with Microsoft, which enables us to resell Microsoft Windows Embedded operating systems to our customers in the United States, Canada, the Caribbean (excluding Cuba) and Mexico. Software sales under this agreement constitute a significant portion of our revenue. If the ODA was terminated, our software revenue and resulting gross profit would decrease significantly and our operating results would be negatively impacted. The ODA is renewable annually, and there is no automatic renewal provision in the agreement. The ODA was renewed in June 2007 and will expire on June 30, 2008, unless terminated earlier under the provisions of the ODA. There were no material changes to the provisions of the ODA as a result of the renewal in June 2007. Future renewals, if any, could be on less favorable terms, which could negatively impact our business and operating results. Microsoft has audited our records under our OEM Distribution Agreement in the past and will likely do so again in the future, and any negative audit results could result in additional charges and/or the termination of the ODA. There are provisions in the ODA that require us to maintain certain internal records and processes for royalty auditing and other reasons. Non-compliance with these and other requirements could result in the termination of the ODA. During 2007, Microsoft conducted an audit of our records pertaining to the ODA, which covered the period from December of 2003 through September 2006. There were no material findings. A similar audit conducted in 2003 and 2004, covering a period of five years, resulted in a payment to Microsoft of $310,000. It is possible that future audits could result in additional charges. If we do not maintain our favorable relationship with Microsoft, we will have difficulty marketing and selling our software and services and may not receive developer releases of Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile targeted platforms. As a result, our revenue and operating results could suffer. We maintain a strategic marketing relationship with Microsoft. In the event that our relationship with Microsoft were to deteriorate, our efforts to market and sell our software and services to OEMs and others could be adversely affected and our business could be harmed. Microsoft has significant influence over the development plans and buying decisions of OEMs and others utilizing Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile targeted platforms for smart devices and these targeted platforms are a significant focus for us. Microsoft provides customers referrals to us. Moreover, Microsoft controls the marketing campaigns related to its operating systems. Microsoft’s marketing activities, including trade shows, direct mail campaigns and print advertising, are important to the continued promotion and market acceptance of Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile targeted platforms and, consequently, to our sale of Windows-based embedded software and services. We must maintain a favorable relationship with Microsoft to continue to participate in joint marketing activities with them, which includes participating in “partner pavilions” at trade shows, listing our services on Microsoft’s website, and receiving customer referrals. In the event that we are unable to continue our joint marketing efforts with Microsoft, or fail to receive referrals from them, we would be required to devote significant additional resources and incur additional expenses to market software products and services directly to potential customers. In addition, we depend on Microsoft for developer releases of new versions of, and upgrades to, Windows Embedded and Windows Mobile software in order to facilitate timely development and delivery of our own software and services. If we are unable to maintain our favorable relationship with Microsoft, our revenue could decline and/or our costs could increase thereby negatively impacting our operating results. 15 Table of Contents Unexpected delays or announcement of delays by Microsoft of Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile targeted platforms product releases could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. Unexpected delays or announcement of delays in Microsoft’s delivery schedule for new versions of its Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile targeted platforms could cause us to delay our product introductions or impede our ability to sell our products and services and/or to complete customer projects on a timely basis. These delays, or announcements of delays by Microsoft, could also cause our customers to delay or cancel their project development activities or product introductions, which could have a negative impact on our revenue and operating results. If Microsoft adds features to its Windows operating system or develops products that directly compete with products and services we provide, our revenue and operating results could be negatively impacted. As the developer of Windows, Windows XP Embedded, Windows CE and Windows Mobile, Microsoft could add features to its operating systems or could develop products that directly compete with the products and services we provide to our customers. The ability of our customers, or potential customers, to obtain products and services directly from Microsoft that compete with our products and services could negatively affect our revenue and operating results. Even if the standard features of future Microsoft operating system software were more limited than our offerings, a significant number of our customers, and potential customers, might elect to accept more limited functionality in lieu of purchasing additional software from us or delay the purchase of our products and services while they perform a comparison of Microsoft’s competing offerings. Moreover, the resulting competitive pressures could lead to price reductions for our products and reduce our revenue and gross profit margin accordingly and our operating results could be adversely impacted. Microsoft has released Windows CE version 6.0 and version 6.1 of its Windows Mobile Smartphone and PocketPC operating systems which contain basic SDIO functionality and is therefore competitive with our SDIO Hx Now! and SDIO Hx product offerings. An agreement with Microsoft required us to deliver to Microsoft our SDIO Now! v.1.0 source code for inclusion into Windows CE 5.0 and Windows Mobile 5.0. Since that source code was delivered to Microsoft, we have continued to develop our SDIO Now! product line, introducing SDIO Now! v.2.0, v.2.2 and most recently SDIO Now! Hx, with new features and performance improvements that we believe are important to customers. Additionally, we plan further enhancements to our SDIO Now! software product in 2007 and beyond. However, there can be no assurance that our next-generation SDIO Now! product offerings will continue to be competitive in the marketplace or that customers will not decide to use the basic functionality they receive from Microsoft as part of the operating system. If the market for Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile targeted platforms fails to develop further, develops more slowly than expected, or declines, our business and operating results may be materially harmed. Because a significant portion of our revenue to date has been generated by software and services targeted at the Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile platforms, if the market for these systems or platforms fails to develop further or develops more slowly than expected, or declines, our business and operating results could be negatively impacted. Market acceptance of Windows Embedded and Windows Mobile will depend on many factors, including: • Microsoft’s development and support of the Windows Embedded and Windows Mobile markets. As the developer and primary promoter of Windows CE, Windows XP Embedded and Windows Mobile, if Microsoft were to decide to discontinue or lessen its support of these operating systems and platforms, potential customers could select competing operating systems, which could reduce the demand for our Windows Embedded and Windows Mobile software products and engineering services which is our primary focus today; • The ability of the Microsoft Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile software to compete against existing and emerging operating systems for the smart device market, including: VxWorks and Linux from WindRiver Systems Inc.; Symbian and Palm OS from PalmSource, Inc.; JavaOS from 16 Table of Contents Sun Microsystems, Inc.; Android from Google Inc.; and other proprietary operating systems. In particular, in the market for handheld devices, Windows Mobile faces intense competition from the Linux operating system. In the market for converged devices, Windows Embedded faces intense competition from the Symbian operating system. Windows Embedded operating systems and the Windows Mobile targeted platforms may be unsuccessful in capturing a significant share of these two segments of the smart device market, or in maintaining its market share therein; • The acceptance by OEMs and consumers of the mix of features and functions offered by Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile targeted platforms; and • The willingness of software developers to continue to develop and expand the applications that run on Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile targeted platforms. To the extent that software developers write applications for competing operating systems that are more attractive to smart device users than those available on Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile targeted platforms, potential purchasers could select competing operating systems over Windows Embedded operating systems and Windows Mobile targeted platforms. General Business-Related Risk Factors Our marketplace is extremely competitive, which may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins and loss of market share. The market for Windows-based embedded software and services is extremely competitive. Increased competition may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margin and loss of customers and market share, which would adversely affect our operating results. We face competition from: • Our current and potential customers’ internal research and development departments, which may seek to develop their own proprietary products and solutions that compete with our proprietary software products and engineering services; • Engineering service firms, including off-shore development companies, such as Intrinsyc, Vanteon, Teleca and Wipro; • ODMs, particularly those in Taiwan, which have or are adding software development capabilities to their offerings; • Contract manufacturers, which are adding software development capabilities to their offerings; and • Microsoft Embedded operating system distributors such as Arrow and Avnet. Larger customers of Microsoft Embedded operating systems are typically knowledgeable of the competing distributors in the North American market and, consequently, will often put large orders out to bid amongst the distributors, which can create margin pressure and make it difficult to maintain long-term relationships with these customers. The gross profit margin on sales of Microsoft Embedded Windows licenses is relatively low, historically about 14% on average. There can be no assurance that gross profit on future sales will not decline given these competitive pressures. As we develop new software products and service offerings, particularly offerings focused on specific industries, we may begin competing with companies with which we have not previously competed. It is also possible that new competitors will enter the market or that our competitors will form alliances, including alliances with Microsoft, that may enable them to rapidly increase their market share. Microsoft has not agreed to any exclusive arrangement with us, nor has it agreed not to compete with us. Microsoft may decide to bring more of the core embedded development services and expertise that we provide in-house, possibly resulting in reduced software and service revenue opportunities for us. The barrier to entering the market as a provider of Windows-based smart device software and services is low. In addition, Microsoft has created marketing programs to encourage systems integrators to work on Windows Embedded operating system software and services. These systems integrators are given substantially the same access by Microsoft to the Windows technology as we are. New competitors may have lower overhead than we do and may be able to undercut our pricing. We expect that competition will increase as other established and emerging companies enter the Windows-based smart device market, and as new products and technologies are introduced. 17 Table of Contents Our ability to maintain or grow the portion of our software revenue attributable to our own proprietary software products is contingent on our ability to bring to market competitive, unique offerings that keep pace with technological changes and needs. If we are not successful in doing so, our business would be harmed. Proprietary software product sales provide us with much higher gross profit margins than we typically receive from third-party software products and our engineering service offerings as well as provide other advantages. Increasing the number and amount of proprietary products we sell is an important part of our growth strategy. Our ability to maintain and increase the revenue contribution from proprietary software products is contingent on our ability to enhance the features and functionality of our current proprietary products as well as to devise, develop and introduce new products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and expand the number of proprietary products that we sell, and our failure to do so could negatively impact revenue and our operating results. We may experience delays in our efforts to develop new products and services, and these delays could cause us to miss market opportunities which could negatively impact our revenue and operating results. The market for Windows-based smart device software and services is very competitive. As a result, the life cycles of our products and services are difficult to estimate. To be successful, we believe we must continue to enhance our current offerings and provide new software product and service offerings with attractive features, prices and terms that appeal to our customers. We have experienced delays in new product and service offering introductions in the past and may do so again in the future. Our revenue and operating results may be negatively impacted if we delay releases of new products, product enhancements and/or new services offerings, or if we fail to accurately anticipate our customers’ needs or technical trends and are unable to introduce new products and service offerings into the market successfully. In addition, our customers may defer or forego purchases of our products and/or services if we, Microsoft, our competitors or major hardware, systems or software vendors introduce or announce new products. Our success depends upon our customers’ ability to successfully sell their products incorporating our technology. Even if a customer selects our products to incorporate into its device, the customer may not ultimately market and sell its product successfully. A cancellation or change in plans by a customer, whether from lack of market acceptance of its products or otherwise, could cause us to lose revenue that we had anticipated. Also, our revenue and operating results could suffer if a significant customer reduces or delays orders during our sales cycle or chooses not to release products that contain our technology. If the market for smart devices develops more slowly than we expect, or declines, our revenue may not develop as anticipated, if at all, and our business would be harmed. The market for smart devices is still emerging and the potential size of this market and the timing of its development are not known. As a result, our profit potential is uncertain and our revenue may not develop as anticipated. We are dependent upon the broad acceptance by businesses and consumers of a wide variety of smart devices, which will depend on many factors, including: • The development of content and applications for smart devices; • The willingness of large numbers of businesses and consumers to use devices such as smartphones, PDAs and handheld industrial data collectors to perform functions historically carried out manually, or by traditional PCs, including inputting and sharing data, communicating among users and connecting to the Internet; and • The evolution of industry standards or the necessary infrastructure that facilitate the distribution of content over the Internet to these devices via wired and wireless telecommunications systems, satellite or cable. 18 Table of Contents The success and profitability of our service offerings are contingent on our ability to differentiate these offerings adequately in the marketplace, which is, in turn, contingent on our ability to retain our engineering personnel and defend our billing rate structure against those of our competitors, including those using lower-cost offshore resources. If we are unable to do so successfully, our business could be harmed. We are a leader in providing engineering services to smart device customers. Our market differentiation is created through several factors, including our experience with a variety of smart device platforms and applications. Our differentiation is contingent, in part, on our ability to attract and retain employees with this expertise, significantly all of whom are currently based in the United States. To the extent we are unable to retain critical engineering services talent and/or our competition is able to deliver the same services by using lower-cost offshore resources, our service revenue and operating results could be negatively impacted. The success and profitability of our service engagements are contingent upon our ability to scope and bid engagements and deliver our services profitably. If we are unable to do so, our service revenue service gross profit margin and operating results could be negatively impacted. Various factors may cause the total cost of service projects to exceed the original estimate provided to the customer or the contractual maximum in the case of fixed price contracts, including specification changes, customer deliverable delays, inadequate scoping and inefficient service delivery. If we are unable to adequately scope, bid and deliver on service engagements successfully, our service revenue, service gross profit and operating results could be negatively impacted. In addition, depending on the cause of an overrun for a given customer and project, we may also decide to provide pricing concessions to that customer which could negatively impact our service revenue, service gross profit and operating results. We have entered into engineering service agreements in which we have agreed to perform our engineering service work at relatively low rates per hour in exchange for future royalties. There is no guarantee that these arrangements will culminate as anticipated. We have entered into service contracts that involve reducing up-front engineering service rate and fees in return for a per-device royalty earned as our customers ship their devices, and we may enter into more such agreements in the future. Some of these contracts call for guaranteed royalty payments by our customers. Because we are delaying revenue past the point where our services are performed, there is a risk that our customers may cancel their device projects or that their devices may not be successful in the market. Cooperation and support from SVs is critical for the success of our hardware reference designs. Such cooperation cannot be assured. We have been developing hardware reference designs based on the Marvell PXA Xscale architecture and plan to develop reference designs based on other silicon architectures. It is important that the silicon on which we base our reference designs receive continued support in the marketplace by the silicon vendors. For example, during the development of our designs, Intel made a strategic decision to sell its PXA Xscale division to Marvell which negatively impacted the sale of our Xscale-based reference designs. There can be no assurance that Marvell will continue to pursue and support the markets that we have been targeting with our reference designs. Cooperation and support from silicon vendors is critical to the success of our reference designs, and should silicon vendors not support our efforts, our revenue and operating results could be negatively impacted. The long sales cycle of our products and services makes our revenue susceptible to fluctuations. Our sales cycle is typically three to nine months because the expense and complexity of the software and engineering service offerings we sell generally require a lengthy customer approval process and may be subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control, including: • Customers’ budgetary constraints and internal acceptance review procedures; • The timing of budget cycles; and 19 Table of Contents • The timing of customers’ competitive evaluation processes. In addition, to successfully sell software and engineering service offerings, we must frequently educate our potential customers about the full benefits of these software and services, which can require significant time. If our sales cycle further lengthens unexpectedly, it could adversely affect the timing of our revenue, which could cause our quarterly results to fluctuate. Erosion of the financial condition of our customers could adversely affect our business. Our business could be adversely affected should the financial condition of our customers erode, given that such erosion could reduce demand from those customers for our software and engineering services, could cause them to terminate their relationships with us, and/or could increase the risk that customers default on their payment obligations. If the global information technology market weakens, the likelihood of the erosion of the financial condition of our customers increases, which could adversely affect the demand for our software and services. Additionally, while we believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate, this allowances may not cover actual losses, which could adversely affect our operating results. We may be subject to product liability claims that could result in significant costs. Our software license and service agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. It is possible, however, that these provisions may be ineffective under the laws of certain jurisdictions. Although we have not experienced any product liability claims to date, the sale and support of our products and services may be subject to such claims in the future. In addition, to the extent we develop and sell increasingly comprehensive, customized turnkey solutions for our customers, we may be increasingly subject to risks of product liability claims. There is a risk that any such claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside, the scope of our insurance coverage, and we may be unable to retain adequate liability insurance in the future. A product liability claim brought against us, whether successful or not, could harm our business and operating results. Past acquisitions have proven difficult to integrate, and future acquisitions, if any, could disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value and adversely affect our operating results. We have acquired the technologies, assets and/or operations of other companies in the past and may acquire or make investments in companies, products, services and technologies in the future as part of our growth strategy. As an example, on December 18, 2007, we acquired certain assets of NEC Corporation of America for $250,000 in cash and the assumption of certain liabilities and obligations. If we fail to properly evaluate, integrate and execute on our acquisitions and investments, our business and prospects may be seriously harmed. To successfully complete an acquisition, we must properly evaluate the technology, accurately forecast the financial impact of the transaction, including accounting charges and transaction expenses, integrate and retain personnel, combine potentially different corporate cultures and effectively integrate products and research and development, sales, marketing and support operations. If we fail to do any of these, we may suffer losses and impair relationships with our employees, customers and strategic partners. Additionally, management may be distracted from day-to-day operations. We also may be unable to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, which are especially critical in light of the Sarbanes-Oxley and other corporate governance requirements, and significant demands may be placed on our management and our operations, information services and financial, legal and marketing resources. Finally, acquired businesses sometimes result in unexpected liabilities and contingencies, which could be significant. Intellectual Property-Related Risk Factors Our software and service offerings could infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, which could expose us to additional costs and litigation and could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services or cause shipment delays or stoppages. It is difficult to determine whether our products and engineering services infringe third-party intellectual property rights, particularly in a rapidly evolving technological environment in which technologies often overlap 20 Table of Contents and where there may be numerous patent applications pending, many of which are confidential when filed. If we were to discover that one of our products or service offerings, or a product based on one of our reference designs, violated a third-party’s proprietary rights, we may not be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, to continue offering that product or service. Similarly, third parties may claim that our current or future products and services infringe their proprietary rights, regardless of whether such claims have merit. Any such claims could increase our costs and negatively impact our business and operating results. In certain cases, we have been unable to obtain indemnification against claims that third-party technology incorporated into our products and services infringe the proprietary rights of others. However, any indemnification we do obtain may be limited in scope or amount. Even if we receive broad third-party indemnification, these entities may not have the financial capability to indemnify us in the event of infringement. In addition, in some circumstances we are required to indemnify our customers for claims made against them that are based on our products or services. There can be no assurance that infringement or invalidity claims related to the products and services we provide, or arising from the incorporation by us of third-party technology, and claims for indemnification from our customers resulting from such claims, will not be asserted or prosecuted against us. Some of our competitors have, or are affiliated, with companies with substantially greater resources than we have, and these competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. In addition, we expect that software developers will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in the software industry grows, and as the functionality of products in different industry segments increasingly overlap. Such claims, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources in addition to potential product redevelopment costs and delays. Furthermore, if we were unsuccessful in resolving a patent or other intellectual property infringement action claim against us, we may be prohibited from developing or commercializing certain of our technologies and products, or delivering services based on the infringing technology, unless we obtain a license from the holder of the patent or other intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any such license on commercially favorable terms, or at all. If such license is not obtained, we would be required to cease these related business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue and operating results. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technology or trademarks, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenue and increase our costs. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitive position could be weakened and our revenue adversely affected. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property. These laws and procedures provide only limited protection. It is possible that another party could obtain patents that block our use of some, or all, of our products and services. If that occurred, we would need to obtain a license from the patent holder or design around those patents. The patent holder may or may not choose to make a license available to us at all or on acceptable terms. Similarly, it may not be possible to design around a blocking patent. In general, there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights through patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws will be effective to prevent misappropriation of our technology, or to prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to or competitive with those developed by us. We frequently license the source code of our products and the source code results of our services to customers. There can be no assurance that customers with access to our source code will comply with the license terms or that we will discover any violations of the license terms or, in the event of discovery of violations, that we will be able to successfully enforce the license terms and/or recover the economic value lost from such violations. To license some of our software products, we rely in part on “shrinkwrap” and “clickwrap” licenses that are not signed by the end user and, therefore, may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions. As with other software, our products are susceptible to unauthorized copying and uses that may go undetected, and policing such unauthorized use is difficult. A significant portion of our marks include the word “BSQUARE” or the preface “b.” Other companies use forms of “BSQUARE” or the preface “b” in their marks alone, or in combination with other words, and we cannot prevent all such third-party uses. We license certain trademark rights to third parties. Such licensees may not abide by our compliance and quality control guidelines with respect to such trademark rights and may take actions that would harm our business. 21 Table of Contents The computer software market is characterized by frequent and substantial intellectual property litigation, which is often complex and expensive, and involves a significant diversion of resources and uncertainty of outcome. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property or to defend against a claim of infringement or invalidity. Litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and could negatively impact our business and operating results. Our software or hardware products or the third-party hardware or software integrated with our products or delivered as part of our service offerings may suffer from defects or errors that could impair our ability to sell our products and services. Software and hardware components as complex as those needed for smart devices frequently contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. We have had to delay commercial release of certain versions of our products until problems were corrected and, in some cases, have provided product enhancements to correct errors in released products. Some of our contracts require us to repair or replace products that fail to work. To the extent that we repair or replace products our expenses may increase. In addition, it is possible that by the time defects are fixed, the market opportunity may decline which may result in lost revenue. Moreover, to the extent that we provide increasingly comprehensive products and services, particularly those focused on hardware, and rely on third-party manufacturers and suppliers to manufacture these products, we will be dependent on the ability of third-party manufacturers to correct, identify and prevent manufacturing errors. Errors that are discovered after commercial release could result in loss of revenue or delay in market acceptance, diversion of development resources, damage to our reputation and increased service and warranty costs, all of which could negatively affect our business and operating results. If we are unable to license key software from third parties, our business could be harmed. We sometimes integrate third-party software with our proprietary software and engineering service offerings or sell such third-party software offerings on a standalone basis (e.g. embedded operating systems under our ODA with Microsoft). If our relationships with these third-party software vendors were to deteriorate, or be eliminated in their entirety, we might be unable to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In the event that we are unable to obtain these third-party software offerings, we would be required to develop this technology internally, assuming it was economically or technically feasible, or seek similar software offerings from other third parties assuming there were competing offerings in the marketplace, which could delay or limit our ability to introduce enhancements or new products, or to continue to sell existing products and engineering services, thereby negatively impacting our revenue and operating results. Governance and Contract-Related Risk Factors It might be difficult for a third-party to acquire us even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Washington law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of us or a change in our management, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our Board of Directors has the authority under our amended and restated articles of incorporation to issue preferred stock with rights superior to the rights of the holders of common stock. As a result, preferred stock could be issued quickly and easily with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of our management more difficult. In addition, our Board of Directors is divided into three classes. The directors in each class serve for three-year terms, one class being elected each year by our shareholders. This system of electing and removing directors may discourage a third party from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company because it generally makes it more difficult for shareholders to replace a majority of our directors. In addition, Chapter 19 of the Washington Business Corporation Act generally prohibits a “target corporation” from engaging in certain significant business transactions with a defined “acquiring person” for a period of five years after the acquisition, unless the transaction or acquisition of shares is approved by a majority of the members of the target corporation’s Board of Directors prior to the time of acquisition. This provision may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of our company. The 22 Table of Contents existence of these anti-takeover provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial costs to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Act) introduced new requirements regarding corporate governance and financial reporting. Among the many requirements of the Act is for management to annually assess and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(a) and for our registered public accountant to attest to this report under Section 404(b). The SEC has modified the effective date and adoption requirements of Section 404(a) and Section 404(b) implementation for non-accelerated filers multiple times, such that we are first required to issue our management report on internal control over financial reporting in this annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. We are currently required to have our auditor attest to management’s assessment for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. However, on January 31, 2008, the SEC proposed a one-year extension to the auditor attestation requirement under Section 404(b) which, if adopted, would require us to first comply with this requirement for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2009. We dedicated significant time and resources during fiscal 2007 to achieve compliance with Section 404(a). During 2007, we incurred $120,000 in external costs to comply with the requirements of Section 404(a). The costs to comply with these requirements will continue to be significant and adversely affect our operating results. Non-compliance with our lease agreement could have a material adverse impact on our financial position. If we default under our corporate headquarters lease, the landlord has the ability to demand cash payments forgiven in 2004 under the former headquarters lease. The amount of the forgiven payments for which the landlord has the ability to demand repayment, in the event of default, decreases on a straight-line basis over the length of our ten-year headquarters lease. The total amount of cash payments forgiven for which the landlord has the ability to demand repayment was $1.6 million at December 31, 2007. Any breach of or non-compliance with these lease agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business. Decreased effectiveness of equity compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees, and required changes in accounting for equity compensation could adversely affect earnings. We have historically used stock options and other forms of equity-related compensation as key components of our overall employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our shareholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. Applicable stock exchange listing standards relating to obtaining shareholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it more difficult or expensive for us to grant options or new forms of equity instruments to employees in the future. As a result, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. International Operations-Related Risk Factors Our international operations expose us to greater intellectual property, management, collections, regulatory and other risks. Customers outside of North America generated approximately 6% of our total revenue in 2007 and approximately 5% in 2006. We currently have operations outside of North America in Taipei, Taiwan and Tokyo, Japan. Our international activities and operations expose us to a number of risks, including the following: • Greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property due to less stringent foreign intellectual property laws and enforcement policies; • Longer collection cycles than we typically experience in the North America; • Unfavorable changes in regulatory practices and tariffs; 23 Table of Contents • Complex and/or adverse tax laws and/or changes thereto. Additionally, we may be subject to income, withholding and other taxes for which we may realize no current benefit despite the existence of significant net operating losses and tax credits in the U.S.; • Loss or reduction of withholding tax exemptions; • The impact of fluctuating exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies; and • General economic and political conditions in international markets which may differ from those in the U.S. These risks could have a material adverse effect on the financial and managerial resources required to operate our foreign offices, as well as on our future international revenue, which could harm our business and operating results. As we increase the amount of software development conducted in non-U.S. locations, potential delays and quality issues may impact our ability to timely deliver our software and services, potentially impacting our revenue and profitability. We conduct development activities in non-U.S. locations, primarily India (through a partnership with a local company) and Taiwan, to take advantage of the high-quality, low-cost software development resources found in those countries. Additionally, we have plans to increase development activity in both our Taiwan operation and other non-U.S. locations as engineering demands necessitate the hiring of additional engineering personnel. To date, we have limited experience in managing large scale software development done in non-U.S. locations. Expanding our software development in these locations inherently increases the complexity of managing these programs and may result in delays in introducing new products to market, or delays in completing service projects for our customers, which in turn may adversely impact the revenue we recognize from related products and services and could also adversely impact the profitability of service engagements employing offshore resources. As our customers seek more cost-effective locations to develop and manufacture their smart devices, particularly overseas locations, our ability to continue to sell these customers our products and services could be limited, which could negatively impact our revenue and operating results. Due to competitive and other pressures, some of our customers have and others may seek to move the development and manufacturing of their smart devices to overseas locations which may limit our ability to sell these customers our products and services. As an example, under our ODA with Microsoft, we are only able to resell Microsoft Embedded operating systems primarily in North America. If our customers, or potential customers, move their manufacturing overseas we may be restricted from reselling these customers Microsoft Embedded operating systems, or our other products and services, which could negatively impact our revenue and operating results. 