Item 1A Risk Factors Our business is subject to many factors that could materially adversely affect our future performance and cause our actual results to differ materially from those experienced or implied by forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Investing in our securities involves risks and accordingly investors should carefully evaluate these risks including the factors discussed below before deciding to invest in our securities. Except as otherwise indicated, these factors may or may not occur and we cannot predict the likelihood of any such factor occurring. Other risk factors may exist that we do not consider significant based on information that is currently available. In addition, new risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our future performance. We may have to pay substantial fines and penalties if we are fined by the U.S. or U.K. governments in connection with their investigations regarding the United Nations Oil for Food Program and other related matters. As discussed in Item 3 within Part I Legal Proceedings, the Company is the subject of investigations by the U.S. and U.K. government authorities in connection with potential violations under the United Nations Oil for Food Program, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other laws. On the facts available to us it is not yet possible to form any reasonable estimate of the potential disgorgement, penalties and fine payments, either by reference to a range of possible outcomes or by reference to the lower end of such a range of outcomes. The amount of any disgorgements, penalties or fines that the Company could face would depend on a number of eventual factors which are not currently known to the Company, including findings by relevant authorities regarding the amount, nature and scope of any improper payments, the amount of any pecuniary gain involved, the Company’s ability to pay, and the level of co-operation provided to government authorities during the investigations. Because of the uncertainties associated with the ultimate outcome of these investigations and the costs to the Company of responding and participating in them, no assurance can be given 9 Table of Contents that the ultimate costs incurred and sanctions that may be imposed will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows from operating activities. Competition, market conditions or a general decline in global economic conditions may adversely affect our operating results. Certain product lines and markets in which the Company’s businesses operate are subject to significant competition. The Company competes on the basis of a number of factors including, but not limited to, product quality and properties, customer relationships and service, and regulatory and toxicological expertise. For some products the competitors are larger than us and may have greater access to financial, technological and other resources. As a result these competitors may be able to better withstand a change in conditions within the industries in which the Company operates, a change in the prices of raw materials or a change in global economic conditions. Competitors may be able to introduce new products with enhanced features that may cause a decline in the demand and sales of the Company’s products. Consolidation of customers or competitors, or economic problems of customers, in the market areas in which the Company operates may cause a loss of market share for the Company’s products, place downward pressure on prices, result in payment delays or non-payment and declining plant utilization rates. Any of these risks could adversely impact our future revenues, gross margins, operating margins and cash flows from operating activities. We may be required to make additional cash contributions to the defined benefit pension plan that we operate in the United Kingdom and recognize greater pension charges. The Company’s principal pension arrangement is a contributory defined benefit pension plan (“the Plan”) covering a number of its current and former employees in the United Kingdom though it does also have other much smaller pension arrangements in the United Kingdom and overseas. The Plan is closed to new entrants without trustee discretion. The Projected Benefit Obligation (“PBO”) is based on final salary and years of credited service reduced by social security benefits according to a plan formula. Normal retirement age is 65 but provisions are made for early retirement. The Plan’s assets are invested by two investment management companies in funds holding United Kingdom and overseas equities, United Kingdom and overseas fixed interest securities, index linked securities, property unit trusts and cash or cash equivalents. The Plan predominantly covers Octane Additive employees and given the significant decline in this business we are now left with a Plan whose population is 95% pensioners and deferred pensioners and only 5% active members. The total liability of the Plan is approximately 5 times our current market capitalization. The Company is contributing amounts to the Plan to cover service costs to date. Employee and employer contributions from January 1, 2004 to January 1, 2007 were at 5% and 22.6%, respectively, of pensionable pay. From January 1, 2007, employee and employer contributions were at 7% and 29%, respectively. In addition, since March 2007, the Company has been contributing £1.5 million per calendar year in accordance with a 10 year deficit recovery plan. 10 Table of Contents From January 1, 2008, employee and employer contributions remained at 7% and 29% though employee contributions were paid by the employer through a salary sacrifice arrangement. The estimated level of Company contributions into the Plan for 2009 is $5.8 million. A full tri-annual actuarial valuation of the Plan was performed as at December 31, 2005 and an update performed as at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the results of which are reflected in these consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2008 the underlying plan asset value and PBO were $557.4 million and $571.2 million, respectively, resulting in a deficit of $13.8 million. A full tri-annual actuarial valuation of the Plan as at December 31, 2008 will be performed in 2009. The results of this valuation will be reflected in the consolidated financial statements as at December 31, 2009. The Plan is broadly in the top decile of funded plans in the United Kingdom. However, due to the recent significant adverse impact on global financial markets the value of Plan assets has declined. In addition, the factors used to develop the discount rate assumption have fluctuated in a manner which resulted in a significant increase in the discount rate used at the end of 2008 from that used at the end of 2007. Similar future changes in Plan asset values and assumptions, including improving member mortality assumptions, will affect the actuarial valuation and our pension calculations and may adversely impact future cash contributions required to be made by the Company, including the 10 year deficit recovery plan, and pension cost recognized in the income statement. We currently do not however intend to modify the provisions of the Plan or investment strategy for the Plan assets. The pension obligation is long-term in nature as is the investment philosophy pursued. Movements in the underlying plan asset value and PBO are dependent on actual return on investments and pay awards as well as our assumptions in respect of the discount rate, annual member mortality rates, future return on assets, future pay escalation, future pension increases and future inflation. We develop these assumptions after considering advice from a major global actuarial consulting firm. A change in any one of these assumptions could impact the plan asset value, PBO and pension cost recognized in the income statement. Such changes could impact our operating results and financial position. A 0.25% change in either the discount rate assumption, or level of price inflation assumption, would change the PBO by approximately $19 million and the net pension charge for 2008 by approximately $1.4 million. In addition, should future investment returns prove insufficient to meet future obligations, or should future obligations increase due to actuarial factors or changes in pension legislation, then the Company may be required to make additional cash contributions. This could have a material impact on future operating income and cash flows from operating activities. We may have additional tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes and state taxes in the U.S., as well as numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are currently under tax audit by various jurisdictions’ tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are 11 Table of Contents reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in our financial statements. This could have a material effect on our net income, financial position or cash flows from operating activities. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, which may adversely affect our results of operations. The Company generates an element of its revenues and incurs some operating costs in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, the financial position and results of operations of some of our foreign subsidiaries are reported in the relevant local currency and then translated to U.S. dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. Changes in exchange rates between these foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the recorded levels of our assets and liabilities, to the extent such figures reflect the inclusion of foreign assets and liabilities that are translated into U.S. dollars for presentation in our financial statements, as well as our results of operations. The primary foreign currencies in which we have exchange rate fluctuation exposure are the European Union euro and British pound sterling. The Company cannot accurately predict the nature or extent of future exchange rate variability. While the Company takes steps to manage currency exposure by entering into hedging transactions, this cannot eliminate all exposure to future exchange rate variability. Exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to do so in the future, which could materially impact our results of operations and financial position. The inability of counterparties to meet their contractual obligations could have a substantial adverse impact on our results of operations. The Company sells a range of specialty chemicals to customers around the world. Credit limits, ongoing credit evaluation and account monitoring procedures are used to minimize bad debt risk. Collateral is not generally required. The Company uses derivatives, including interest rate swaps, commodity swaps and foreign currency forward exchange contracts, in the normal course of business to manage market risks. The Company enters into derivative instruments with a diversified group of major financial institutions in order to monitor the exposure to non-performance of such instruments. The Company has in place a financing facility with a syndicate of banks. The Company remains subject to market and credit risks including the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual obligations and the potential non-performance of counterparties to deliver contracted commodities or services at the contracted price. Due to the recent disruptions in the credit and global financial markets the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual obligations may be reduced and this could have an adverse impact on future net income and cash flows from operating and financing activities. 12 Table of Contents Our reliance on a small number of significant customers may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our principal customers are major multinational and state owned oil companies. The oil industry is characterized by concentration of a few large participants as a result of consolidation. The loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in purchases by a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows from operating activities. A disruption in the supply of raw materials or transportation services would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The chemical industry and transportation industry are in a situation where the supply and demand of both transportation services and the supply and demand of raw materials are broadly in balance. When we identify a situation where an imbalance may occur or is occurring we may build certain product inventories of strategic importance as we have done in 2008. Any significant disruption in supply could affect our ability to obtain raw materials or transportation services. This could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows from operating activities. Sharp and unexpected fluctuations in the cost of our raw materials and energy could adversely affect our profit margins. We use a variety of raw materials, chemicals and energy in our manufacturing and blending processes. Many of the raw materials that we use are derived from petrochemical-based feedstocks which can be subject to periods of rapid and significant price instability. These fluctuations in price can be caused by political instability in oil producing nations and elsewhere, or other factors influencing global supply and demand over which we have no or little control. Innospec has entered hedging arrangements for certain raw materials, but does not typically enter into hedging arrangements for all raw materials, chemicals or energy costs. Should costs of raw materials, chemicals or energy increase, and should Innospec’s businesses not be able to pass on these cost increases to our customers, then operating margins and cash flows from operating activities would be adversely impacted. Should raw material prices increase significantly, then the Company’s need for working capital could increase which would adversely impact cash flows from operating activities. Our reliance on a small number of significant stockholders may have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Recent disruptions in the credit markets, and concerns about global economic growth, have had a significant adverse impact on global financial markets and contributed to a decline in our stock price and corresponding market capitalization. Almost fifty per cent of the Company’s common stock is held by three stockholders. A decision by any of these stockholders to sell all or a significant part of its stockholding in the Company as a consequence of current economic conditions or otherwise could result in a significant decline in the Company’s stock price which could in turn adversely impact our ability to access equity markets. 13 Table of Contents Approximately twenty per cent of the Company’s common stock is currently held or controlled by Tontine Capital Partners, L.P., Tontine 25 Overseas Master Fund, L.P., Tontine Capital Management L.L.C., Tontine Capital Overseas Master Fund, L.P., Tontine Capital Overseas GP, L.L.C. and Jeffrey L. Gendell (“Gendell et al”). On November 10, 2008, Gendell et al jointly filed a Schedule 13D with the SEC in which they reported that they will begin to explore alternatives for the disposition of their equity interests in the Company’s common stock which at that date aggregated to 4,828,345 shares. We face risks related to our foreign operations that may adversely affect our business. We serve global markets and accordingly operate in some countries which do not have stable economies or governments. Specifically, we trade in countries experiencing political and economic instability in the Middle East and Asia Pacific. Our international operations are subject to international business risks including, but not limited to, unsettled political conditions, expropriation, import and export restrictions, exchange controls, national and regional labor strikes, taxes, government royalties and restrictions on repatriation of earnings or proceeds from liquidated assets of foreign subsidiaries. The occurrence of any, or a combination, of these events could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows from operating activities. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our future performance and cash flows. Our intellectual property, including trademarks, patents and licenses, forms a significant part of the Company’s competitive strengths. We therefore depend on our ability to develop and protect our intellectual property rights to distinguish our products from those of our competitors. Failure to do so may result in the loss of valuable technologies, or our having to pay other companies for infringing their intellectual property rights. Measures taken by us to protect our intellectual property may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. We may also face patent infringement claims from our competitors which may result in substantial litigation costs, claims for damages or a tarnishing of our reputation even if we are successful in defending these claims, which may cause our customers to switch to our competitors. The occurrence of any, or a combination, of these events could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows from operating activities. We are subject to extensive government regulation. We are subject to regulation by local, state, federal and foreign governmental authorities. In some circumstances these authorities must approve our products, manufacturing processes and facilities before we may sell certain products. Many of the Company’s products are required to be registered with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and with comparable governmental agencies elsewhere. We are also subject to ongoing reviews of our products, manufacturing processes and facilities by governmental authorities including the requirement to produce product data. In order to obtain regulatory approval of certain new products we must, amongst other things, demonstrate to the relevant authority that the product is safe and effective for its intended 14 Table of Contents uses, and that we are capable of manufacturing the product in accordance with current regulations. This approval process can be costly, time consuming, and subject to unanticipated and significant delays. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that approvals will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. Any delay in obtaining, or any failure to obtain or maintain, these approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new products and to generate income from those products. New laws and regulations may be introduced in the future that could result in additional compliance costs and prevent or inhibit the development, distribution and sale of our products. The European Union (“EU”) has approved additional legislation known as the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemical Substances Regulations (“REACH”) which requires most of the Company’s products to be registered with EU Authorities. Under this legislation the Company has to demonstrate the continuing safety of its products. During this registration period the Company will incur expense to test and register its products. The Company estimates that the cost of complying with REACH will be approximately $10 million incurred over the next 4 years. While the Company expects that its products will be approved for registration after testing it is possible that certain products may not be registered if the test data proves unsatisfactory. In such an outcome some of the Company’s products may be restricted or prohibited in the EU. This could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The Company has made a voluntary disclosure to U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) regarding dealings with Cuba by certain of the Company’s current and former subsidiaries. The Company is cooperating with the SEC, DOJ and SFO regarding its participation in the OFFP and related investigations. The Company has made provision for probable future legal and other professional expenses and/or potential penalties in respect of these matters to the extent they can be reasonably estimated. However should the Company’s estimates prove to be inadequate then this could have a material impact upon the Company’s operating income and cash flows from operating activities. We could be adversely affected by technological changes in our industry. Our ability to maintain or enhance our technological capabilities, develop and market products and applications that meet changing customer requirements, and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes in a cost effective and timely manner will likely impact our future business success. Technological changes in some or all of our customers’ products or processes may make our products obsolete and accordingly adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Legal proceedings and other claims could impose substantial costs on us. In addition to other matters described elsewhere, we are occasionally involved in legal proceedings that result from, and are incidental to, the conduct of our business, including product liability claims. We have insurance coverage to mitigate any potential damages in any such proceedings, however if our insurance did not cover such claims, then this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents Environmental matters could have a substantial adverse impact on our results of operations. The Company is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning emissions to the air, discharges to land and water and the generation, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials. The Company is also required to obtain various environmental permits and licenses many of which require periodic notification and renewal. The Company operates on a number of manufacturing sites. The Company’s historic operations, and the historic operations of companies who have previously operated on sites that the Company has acquired, entail the risk of environmental contamination of the properties that it owns or has owned. This may result in fines or criminal sanctions against the Company or may entail the Company in material costs to remediate historic contamination. The Company further anticipates that certain production facilities may cease production in the medium to long-term. On closure of some of these production operations in the future, the Company expects to be subject to environmental laws that will require production facilities to be safely decommissioned and a degree of environmental remediation to be undertaken. The degree of environmental remediation will depend upon the plans for the future use of the operating sites that are affected and the environmental legislation in force at the time. The Company has currently made a decommissioning and remediation provision based on the Company’s current obligations, the current plans for those sites and current environmental legislation. Should the Company’s future plans for the sites change or should environmental legislation change then these provisions may prove inadequate and this will have an adverse impact on future operating income and cash flows from operating activities. The terms of our finance facility may restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness or to otherwise expand our business. The Company’s new finance facility contains restrictive clauses which may constrain our activities and limit our operational and financial flexibility. The new facility obliges the lenders to comply with a request for utilization of finance unless there is an event of default outstanding. Events of default are defined in the finance facility and include a material adverse change to our business, properties, assets, financial condition or results of operations. The new facility contains a number of restrictions that limit our ability, amongst other things, and subject to certain limited exceptions, to incur additional indebtedness, pledge our assets as security, guarantee obligations of third parties, make investments, undergo a merger or consolidation, dispose of assets, or materially change our line of business. In addition, the new finance facility requires the Company to meet certain financial ratios including net debt to EBITDA (as defined in the finance facility) and net interest expense to EBITDA (as defined in the finance facility). The ability to meet these financial covenants depends upon the future operating performance of the businesses. If the Company fails to meet target covenants then it would be in technical default on the finance facility and the maturity of the outstanding debt could be accelerated unless it was able to obtain waivers from the lenders. 16 Table of Contents Our Octane Additives business could decline faster than expected. Worldwide use of TEL has declined since 1973 following the enactment of the U.S. Clean Air Act of 1970 and similar legislation in other countries. The trend of countries exiting the leaded gasoline market has resulted in a general rate of decline in volume terms in recent years of between 10% and 25% per annum. Net sales and gross profit of our Octane Additives business accounted for approximately 10% and 15%, respectively, of our consolidated sales and gross profit in 2008, and we expect both of these percentages to decline again in fiscal year 2009. The remaining sales of the Octane Additives business are now concentrated in a relatively small number of customers and therefore may decline with unpredictable volatility and severity. Should one or more of these customers choose for economic, environmental, political or other reasons to cease using TEL as an octane enhancer earlier than has been anticipated, then the Company’s future operating income and cash flows from operating activities would be adversely impacted. There could also be an accelerated impairment of Octane Additives business goodwill as the forecast discounted cash flows from that business would be reduced. The Company anticipates that eventually all countries in the world will stop the use of TEL in automotive gasoline. The Company expects that it will cease all sales of TEL for use in automotive gasoline in 2012. We may not be able to consummate, finance or successfully integrate future acquisitions into our business, which could hinder our strategy or result in unanticipated expenses and losses. It is part of our stated strategy that we intend to pursue strategic acquisitions and other opportunities to complement and expand our existing businesses. Our ability to implement this component of our strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisitions or other opportunities and financial resources, including our available cash and borrowing capacity and the financial markets. The success of these transactions will depend on our ability to integrate assets and personnel acquired in these transactions, apply our internal controls processes to these acquired businesses, and cooperate with our strategic partners. The expense incurred in consummating acquisitions or other opportunities, the time it takes to integrate an acquisition, or our failure to integrate businesses successfully, could result in unanticipated expenses and losses. The process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree or timing of benefits we anticipate when we first enter a transaction. Any of these risks could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our business is subject to the risk of production or transportation interruptions, the occurrence of any of which would adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to hazards common to chemical manufacturing, blending, storage, handling and transportation including fires, explosions, mechanical failure, transportation interruptions, remediation, chemical spills and the release or discharge of toxic or hazardous substances. These hazards could result in loss of life, property damage, environmental contamination and 17 Table of Contents temporary or permanent production cessation. Any, or a combination, of these factors could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows from operating activities. Domestic or international natural disasters or terrorist attacks may disrupt our operations, decrease the demand for our products or otherwise have an adverse impact on our business. Chemical related assets, and U.S. corporations such as ourselves, may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other possible targets in the U.S., United Kingdom and throughout the world. The occurrence of such events cannot be predicted though they can be expected to continue to adversely impact the economy in general and our specific markets. The resulting damage from such an event could include loss of life, property damage or site closure. Any, or a combination, of these factors could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows from operating activities. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Table of Contents 