D. Risk Factors—Risks Relating to the Control 67 of us by Svyazinvest and the Government of the Russian Federation” for a description of certain risks relating to our ownership structure. Svyazinvest has at least a 50% interest in the following Russian entities: · seven IRCs (OJSC Dalsvyaz, OJSC Sibirtelecom, OJSC Uralsvyazinform, OJSC Southern Telecommunications Company, OJSC North-West Telecom, OJSC CenterTelecom and OJSC Volgatelecom)—ownership of more than 50% of the voting shares; · OJSC Central Telegraph—51% of the voting shares; · OJSC Dagsvyazinform—50.7% of the voting shares; · OJSC Giprosvyaz—50.7% of the voting shares; · OJSC MobiTel—100% of the voting shares; and · Rostelecom—50.7% of the voting shares. Svyazinvest has less than a 50% interest in the following Russian entities: · OJSC RusLeasingSvyaz—38% of the voting shares; · OJSC Kostroma City Telephone Network—37.3% of the voting shares; · OJSC MGTS—28% of the voting shares; · CJSC Startcom—25% of the voting shares; and · OJSC United Registration Company—8.95% of the voting shares. Rostelecom As of the date of this annual report, the group comprised us and our consolidated subsidiaries Westelcom, GlobalTel, MTs NTT, Globus-Telecom, Zebra-Telecom; and principal associates RTComm.RU and MMTS-9. In addition, we hold interests in 32 additional associates and subsidiaries, which were accounted for using the equity method or at cost since the aggregate effect of the results of operations and financial position of these companies is not material for our consolidated financial statements taken as a whole Branches We operate through branches located throughout Russia and, as of December 31, 2005, had eight branches in Russia. Most of our branches are responsible for providing DLD/ILD telecommunications services to end users, performing operations with, and providing services to, the IRCs and other operators, including participating in our joint projects in areas where our facilities connect with relevant regional communications networks. Under Russian law, a branch functions as a division within the corporate structure of a company. Although not a legal entity distinct from the company, a branch may generally own assets, incur liability and enter into contractual relationships. Our branches operate pursuant to internal regulations approved by our General Director, while we bear full liability for their operations. In order to expand our presence in the area of international organizations, we joined the International Telecommunications Union, or ITU, and opened a representative office in Geneva, Switzerland in August 1999 in order to secure our position with international authorities and organizations, as well as promote international trade and research cooperation. In April 2002, we registered our representative office in Yerevan, Republic of Armenia, in order to research the market and the possibilities for introducing high-level telecommunications technology into the Armenian market. 68 Consolidated Subsidiaries Westelcom Westelcom, a joint venture with the Russian Telecommunications Development Corporation, registered in the Russian Federation, was established in December 1992 to contribute to the development, introduction, operation and management of the Russian telecommunications infrastructure. We acquired a 50% interest in Westelcom in 1992. In October 2002, we purchased the remaining 50% interest in Westelcom from the Russian Telecommunications Development Corporation for U.S.$15 million. We own 100% of the voting shares in Westelcom. Westelcom provides communications channels and telecommunications equipment lease services. Westelcom has a Russian subsidiary: OJSC InfoTeX Taganrog Telecom. Westelcom owns 74.0% of the charter capital of OJSC InfoTeX Taganrog Telecom, which provides access in the Russian city of Taganrog to the PSTN, as well as local telephone network services, Internet access services, lease of communication channels and long-distance payphones. In May 2006, we sold our 77% interest in OJSC A-Svyaz, which provides access to the PSTN, local telephone network services, ISDN services, Internet access and IP telephony services, to OAO Dalsvyaz for a cash payment of RUR 10 million. GlobalTel CJSC GlobalTel, a company registered in the Russian Federation, was established in 1996 to provide access to a U.S.-based global mobile satellite telephone network. We own 51% of the voting shares in GlobalTel and GlobalStar LP, the owner of the satellite network, owns the remaining 49%. Pursuant to the charter of GlobalTel and its by-laws, however, the minority shareholder had effective veto rights that prevented us from causing GlobalTel to take any significant action in the ordinary cause of its business. Because effective control of GlobalTel did not rest with us, management accounted for the investment in GlobalTel under the equity method. On April 25, 2005, however, the shareholders’ meeting of GlobalTel approved a new charter, which abolished the minority shareholder’s veto and substantive participation rights. We concluded that these changes resulted in us having effective control over GlobalTel and we began accounting for it as one of our subsidiaries beginning on April 25, 2005. In accordance with the provisions of IFRS 3, “Business combinations,” we accounted for taking effective control of GlobalTel under the purchase method. For U.S. GAAP purposes, obtaining control over GlobalTel was accounted for in accordance with the transition provisions of EITF 96-16 “Investor’s Accounting for an Investee when the Investor has a Majority of the Voting Interest but the Minority has Certain Approval or Veto Rights.” GlobalStar’s satellite communications system is designed for the provision of mobile and fixed satellite communications services mainly in remote and hard-to-reach areas where cellular and wireless communications are otherwise unavailable or underdeveloped. Its services are currently available in over 100 countries. The Russian segment of this network is operated by GlobalTel, which provides communications services in the territories of all 88 regions of the Russian Federation. Most of the terminals are handsets capable of operating in and automatically switching to GSM 900 or AMPS 800 modes. In accordance with Russian legislation, joint stock companies must maintain a level of equity (net assets) that is greater than the charter capital. In the event that a company’s net assets, as determined under Russian accounting legislation, fall below certain minimum levels, specifically below zero, the company can be forced to liquidate. GlobalTel had, and continues to have, negative equity as reported in its Russian 69 statutory financial statements. Nonetheless, we believe that the risk of statutory liquidation procedures being initiated or other material adverse actions are remote. MTs NTT We established CJSC MTs NTT in 1995 in order to introduce telecommunications services based on cutting-edge technologies. As of the date of this annual report, MTs NTT provides the following services: ISDN and call center services, Internet access, Intelligent Network services (e.g., Televoting and FreePhone) and videoconferencing. We own 100% of the voting shares in MTs NTT. Globus-Telecom CJSC Globus-Telecom was established in 2000 by a group of telecommunications companies and the Federal Security Service (formerly the Federal Agency of Government Communications and Information) in order to provide the federal authorities and certain government-determined strategic enterprises with an encrypted communications network interconnected with the PSTN. Globus-Telecom is currently a fixed-line operator with a modern infrastructure enabling the provision of telecommunications services in Moscow and other regions in Russia. Globus-Telecom has numbering capacity for 100,000 direct Moscow-code telephone numbers and its customer base mainly includes corporate users and state authorities. Through a highly reliable and secure network, Globus-Telecom offers its customers a full package of services, including local and intra-regional telephone services, VPN, Internet access, Intelligent Network services, data transmission and leased line services. In April 2006, we acquired a 74.57% stake in CJSC Globus-Telecom from CJSC Sinterra and OJSC RTC-Leasing for a cash payment of approximately RUR 821 million. In April 2006, we also acquired a 100% stake in LLC TelecomCenter, which directly controls a 20.33% stake in CJSC Globus-Telecom, from LLC AVTEX for a cash payment of approximately RUR 280.5 million. As a result, we currently own directly and indirectly a 94.92% stake in CJSC Globus-Telecom. The following table summarizes on a provisional basis the fair values of identifiable net assets of Globus-Telecom acquired as at the acquisition date: April 3, 2006 Property, plant and equipment 119 Intangible assets Number capacity 304 Contract-based intangible assets 201 Computer software 21 Employment contracts 12 Inventories 4 Trade and other accounts receivable 111 Cash 7 Other current assets 21 Short-term debt (44 ) Accounts payable and accrued liabilities (137 ) Other current liabilities (14 ) Provisional fair value of net assets acquired 605 Less: minority interest (5.1%) (31 ) Our share of the fair value of net assets 574 Consideration paid 1,102 Goodwill 528 70 As of the date of our financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report, we have not received a final report from our independent appraisers and, therefore, we have not finalized the purchase price allocation for the acquisition of Globus-Telecom. Zebra Telecom CJSC Zebra Telecom was established in 2000 and is currently a universal provider of such services as Internet access and local and DLD/ILD telecommunications services using VoIP technology. Zebra Telecom is also a leading Internet service provider in Russia and IP-telephony service provider in Moscow, St. Petersburg, Nizhny Novgorod and Kazan. The IP-telephony service is accessible through prepaid scratch cards. In June 2006, we acquired a 99.99 stake in Zebra Telecom from Starford Investments Company, Ltd. for a total cash payment of approximately U.S.$13.5 million. As of the date of the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report, we are in the process of determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed for the purposes of purchase price allocation. Principal Associates RTComm.RU RTComm.RU is a company registered in the Russian Federation providing integrated Internet technology solutions. RTComm.RU currently has licenses to lease out communications channels, provide telematic and data transmission services and to engage in the technical protection of confidential information. RTComm.RU’s target customers are Internet service providers, corporate customers and government entities. We own 31.1% of the voting shares in RTComm.RU and began accounting for the results of operations and financial position of RTComm.RU under the equity method as of January 1, 2004. Prior to that, we consolidated RTComm.RU in our financial statements on the basis of our control over the financial and operating policy decisions of RTComm.RU through December 31, 2003. We ceased consolidating the results of RTComm.RU following our disposal of RTC-Leasing, which held a 49% interest in RTComm.RU. One of the principal services that RTComm.RU has been providing since 2001 is dedicated access, which provides a 24-hour connection of the customer’s router to a port of the RTComm.RU network node and permanent access to Internet resources. RTComm.RU also provides data center services, including registration of domain names, “post-office” services, news server services, virtual hosting, co-location, dedicated hosting and others. RTComm.RU owns 100% of CJSC RTComm-Sibir and LLC RTComm-Yug and 51% of LLC BASHRTCOMM, each of which is a regional Internet access provider. It also owns nodes in London and Stockholm and data centers in Moscow and Novosibirsk. In the domestic market, RTComm.RU provides services to more than 1,000 business customers, including to communications operators, national corporations and federal ministries and agencies located in more than 130 large cities in Russia where RTComm.RU’s principal access nodes are located. MMTS-9 MMTS-9 is a company registered in the Russian Federation. Its business consists primarily of renting out premises to mobile and fixed-line telecommunications providers for the installation of their telecommunication equipment, and the provision of interconnection services and call center services. We own 49.1% of the voting shares in MMTS-9. The majority of Russian Internet web-sites are hosted on servers located on the premises of MMTS-9. 71 D. Property, Plant and Equipment Our principal facilities and properties consist of buildings, sites and telecommunications facilities such as switches of various capacities, cable and transmission devices, television and radio broadcasting equipment, transportation vehicles and various other equipment located throughout Russia. There are no major encumbrances on the properties owned by us. See “