Risk Factors Our international operations expose us to greater intellectual property, management, collections, regulatory and other risks. Customers outside of North America generated 23% of our total revenue in 2011 and 16% in 2010. We have expanded rapidly internally during 2011 and 2010 including establishing presences in Korea and China and our MPC acquisition in September 2011 which significantly increased our presence in EMEA. We currently have operations outside of North America in Taiwan, China and the United Kingdom and also have a limited sales and/or support presence in Japan and South Korea. Our international activities and operations, and our current expansion plans expose us to a number of risks, including the following: • Greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property due to less stringent foreign intellectual property laws and enforcement policies; • Longer collection cycles than we typically experience in North America; • Unfavorable changes in regulatory practices and tariffs; • Compliance with complex regulatory regimes or restrictions on import and export of our goods and services; • Complex and/or adverse tax laws and/or changes thereto. Additionally, we may be subject to income, withholding and other taxes for which we may realize no current benefit despite the existence of significant net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in the U.S.; • Loss or reduction of withholding tax exemptions; • The impact of fluctuating exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies; • General economic and political conditions in international markets which may differ from those in the U.S.; • Increased exposure to potential liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • Added cost and administrative burden associated with creating and operating business structures in other jurisdictions; • Potential labor costs and risks associated with employees and labor laws in other geographies; and • The inherent risks of working in a certain highly regulated and/or controlled economies where relationships between company management and government officials is critical to timely processing of approvals required to conduct business. These risks could have a material adverse effect on the financial and managerial resources required to operate our foreign offices, as well as on our future international revenue, which could negatively impact our business and operating results. As we increase the amount of software development conducted in non-U.S. locations, potential delays and quality issues may impact our ability to timely deliver our software and services, potentially impacting our revenue and profitability. We conduct development activities in non-U.S. locations, primarily India (through a partnership with a local company), China, Taiwan, and the United Kingdom, to take advantage of the high-quality, low-cost software development resources found in those countries. Additionally, we have plans to further increase development activity in our Taiwan and China operations. To date, we have limited experience in managing large scale software development outside the United States. Expanding our international software development inherently increases the complexity of managing these programs and may result in delays in introducing new products to market, or delays in completing service projects for our customers, which in turn may adversely impact the 22 Table of Contents revenue we recognize from related software products and services and could also adversely impact the profitability of service engagements employing offshore resources, thereby negatively affecting our operating results. As our customers seek more cost-effective locations to develop and manufacture their smart devices, particularly overseas locations, our ability to continue to sell these customers our software products and services could be limited, which could negatively impact our revenue and operating results. Due to competitive and other pressures, some of our customers have moved, and others may seek to move, the development and manufacturing of their smart devices to overseas locations, which may limit our ability to sell these customers our software and services. As an example, under our ODA with Microsoft, we are currently only able to sell Microsoft Windows Embedded operating systems primarily in North America, the United Kingdom and Germany. If our customers, or potential customers, move their manufacturing overseas we may be restricted from reselling these customers Microsoft Windows Embedded operating systems, or our other products and services, which could negatively impact our revenue and operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable 