ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are numerous and varied risks, known and unknown, that may prevent us from achieving our goals. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks, or any other risks not described below, actually occur, it is likely that our business, financial condition, and/or operating results could be materially adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described below include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risk Relating to Our Company We have experienced significant losses and expect losses to continue for the foreseeable future. We have yet to establish any history of profitable operations. We have incurred annual net losses of $25,445,435 and $21,976,882, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. As of December 31, 2014, we had an accumulated deficit of $70,042,714. We expect to incur additional operating losses for the foreseeable future. Although we expect sales and order backlogs to increase in 2015 from our existing product offerings, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve these revenues throughout the year or be profitable in the future. We will require additional capital in order to execute the longer term aspects of our business plan. The implementation of our growth strategy will continue to result in an increase in our fixed cost structure. Due to the time delay between outlays for working capital expenditures, such as costs to acquire rights to additional products, the hiring and training of sales agents and personnel, marketing costs, the purchasing of inventory, the billing and collection of revenue, the conducting of a post marketing clinical trial for Biovance, and diligence costs related to merger and acquisition activities, we expect to have a net cash outflow from operating activities and revenues from sales brought in as a result of these expenditures. Future results of operations involve significant risks and uncertainties. Factors that could affect our future operating results and cause actual results to vary materially from expectations include, but are not limited to, potential demand for our products, risks from competitors, regulatory approval of our new products, technological change, and dependence on key personnel. In order to complete our future growth strategy, additional equity and/or debt financing will be required. If we are unable to raise additional capital or if we encounter circumstances that place unforeseen constraints on capital resources, we will be required to take even stronger measures to conserve liquidity, which may include, but are not limited to, eliminating all non-essential positions and ceasing all marketing efforts. We would have to curtail business development activities and suspend the pursuit of our business plan. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in improving revenues, reducing expenses and/or securing additional capital in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms. There is no assurance when or if the merger will be completed and, even if the merger is successfully completed, the anticipated benefits to our stockholders may not be realized. On February 2, 2015, we entered into the Merger Agreement, pursuant to which Celleration agreed to merge with and into Merger Sub, our wholly owned subsidiary. Completion of the merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions as set forth in the Merger Agreement, including without limitation the approval of the Merger Agreement by Celleration stockholders and the approval of the issuance of our common stock in the merger by our stockholders. There can be no assurance that we or Celleration will be able to satisfy the closing conditions or that closing conditions beyond our control will be satisfied or waived. The conditions to the proposed merger could prevent or delay the completion of the transaction. If the merger and the integration of the companies’ respective businesses are not completed within the expected timeframe, such delay may materially and adversely affect the synergies and other benefits that we expect to achieve as a result of the merger and could result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other effects associated with uncertainty about the merger. In addition, the parties can agree at any time to terminate the Merger Agreement, even if Celleration stockholders have already adopted the Merger Agreement and thereby approved the merger and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. Alliqua and Celleration can also terminate the Merger Agreement under other specified circumstances. 13 If the merger is not completed, our ongoing business could be adversely affected and we will be subject to a variety of risks associated with the failure to complete the merger, including without limitation the following: ·the requirement, under certain circumstances, to pay to Celleration a reverse termination fee equal to $3 million less any amount previously loaned to Celleration (if any); ·diversion of management focus and resources from operational matters and other strategic opportunities while working to implement the merger; ·reputational harm due to the adverse perception of any failure to successfully complete the merger; and ·having to pay certain costs relating to the merger, such as legal, accounting, financial advisory, filing and printing fees. If the merger is not completed, these risks could materially affect the market price of our common stock and our future business and financial results. We depend on key personnel. We believe that our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to retain the skilled personnel we have recently added and attract additional skilled personnel, which may require substantial additional funds. There can be no assurance that we will be able to find and attract additional qualified employees or retain any such personnel. Our inability to hire qualified personnel, the loss of services of our key personnel, or the loss of services of executive officers or key employees that may be hired in the future may have a material and adverse effect on our business. Our strategic business plan may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income. Our strategies include making significant investments in sales and marketing programs to achieve revenue growth and margin improvement targets. If we do not achieve the expected benefits from these investments or otherwise fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may not achieve the growth improvement we are targeting and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our acquisition strategy may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income. As part of our strategy for growth, we may make acquisitions and enter into strategic alliances such as joint ventures and joint development agreements. However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. Such acquisitions could reduce shareholders’ ownership, cause us to incur debt, expose us to liabilities and result in amortization expenses related to intangible assets with definite lives. In addition, acquisitions involve other risks, including diversion of management resources otherwise available for ongoing development of our business and risks associated with entering new markets with which we have limited experience or where distribution alliances with experienced distributors are not available. Our future profitability may depend in part upon our ability to further develop our resources to adapt to these new products or business areas and to identify and enter into satisfactory distribution networks. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition as rapidly as expected or at all, or the acquired business may not perform in accordance with our expectations. We may also incur significant expenditures in anticipation of an acquisition that is never realized. There can be no assurance that difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends upon market acceptance of our existing and future products. We believe that our success will depend in part upon the acceptance of our existing and future products by the medical community, hospitals and physicians and other health care providers, third-party payers, and end-users. Such acceptance may depend upon the extent to which the medical community and end-users perceive our products as safer, more effective or cost-competitive than other similar products. Ultimately, for our new products to gain general market acceptance, it may also be necessary for us to develop marketing partners for the distribution of our products. There can be no assurance that our new products will achieve significant market acceptance on a timely basis, or at all. Failure of some or all of our future products to achieve significant market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 14 We are dependent on significant customers. Historically, our contract manufacturing business has generated most of our revenue, and much of this revenue is generated from a limited number of clients, who account for a substantial percentage of our total revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2014, one customer accounted for approximately 23% of our revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2013, two customers accounted for approximately 67% of our revenue, with one customer accounting for 51% and the other 16%. These customers are both medical device manufacturers and consumers of our contract manufacturing products. The decrease in this concentration is due to an increase in product revenue, which is consistent with our strategy. We expect that as revenues from the sales of our proprietary wound dressings increase, this concentration will continue to abate in 2015. The loss of any of our significant customers would have a significant negative effect on our overall operations. We may not be able to correctly estimate our future operating expenses, which could lead to cash shortfalls. Our operating expenses may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: ● the time and resources required to develop and conduct clinical trials and obtain regulatory approvals for our products; ● the costs to attract and retain personnel with the skills required for effective operations; and/or ● the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other patent related costs, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation. If we do not accurately predict our operating expenses, we may not allocate resources appropriately, which could lead to cash shortfalls and force us to seek additional capital or curtail other projects or initiatives, all of which could have a significant negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive industry and face competition from large, well-established medical device manufacturers as well as new market entrants. Competition from other medical device companies and from research and academic institutions is intense, expected to increase, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. In addition to competing with universities and other research institutions in the development of products, technologies and processes, we compete with other companies in acquiring rights to products or technologies from those institutions. A number of factors may limit the market acceptance of our products, including the timing of regulatory approvals and market entry relative to competitive products, the availability of alternative products, the price of our products relative to alternative products, the availability of third party reimbursement and the extent of marketing efforts by third party distributors or agents that we retain. There can be no assurance that our products will receive market acceptance in a commercially viable period of time, if at all. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we can develop products that are more effective or achieve greater market acceptance than competitive products, or that our competitors will not succeed in developing or acquiring products and technologies that are more effective than those being developed by us, that would render our products and technologies less competitive or obsolete. Our competitors enjoy several competitive advantages over us, including some or all of the following: ● large and established distribution networks in the U.S. and/or in international markets; ● greater financial, managerial and other resources for products research and development, sales and marketing efforts and protecting and enforcing intellectual property rights; ● significantly greater name recognition; ● more expansive portfolios of intellectual property rights; ● established relations with physicians, hospitals, other healthcare providers and third party payors; 15 ● products which have been approved by regulatory authorities for use in the U.S. and/or Europe and which are supported by long-term clinical data; and ● greater experience in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals and/or clearances from the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Our competitors’ products will compete directly with our products. In addition, our competitors as well as new market entrants may develop or acquire new treatments, products or procedures that will compete directly or indirectly with our products. The presence of this competition in our market may lead to pricing pressure which would make it more difficult to sell our products at a price that will make us profitable or prevent us from selling our products at all. Our failure to compete effectively would have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our existing and potential future products will require FDA approval before they can be marketed in the United States. Inherent in the development of new medical products is the potential for delay because product testing, including clinical evaluation, is required before most products can be approved for human use. With respect to medical devices, such as those that we manufacture, before a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, an existing product can be marketed, unless it is a Class I device, it must first receive either premarket clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or premarket approval from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. In the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA must determine that the proposed device is “substantially equivalent” to a device legally on the market, known as a “predicate” device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness to clear the proposed device for marketing. Clinical data is sometimes required to support substantial equivalence. The premarket approval pathway requires an applicant to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use based, in part, on extensive data including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trial, manufacturing and labeling data. The premarket approval process is typically required for devices that are deemed to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices. Both the 510(k) and premarket approval processes can be expensive and lengthy and entail significant user fees. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in, among other things, suspensions or withdrawals of approvals or clearances, seizures or recalls of products, injunctions against the manufacture, holding, distribution, marketing and sale of a product, civil and criminal sanctions. Furthermore, changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could prevent us from obtaining, or affect the timing of, future regulatory approvals. Meeting regulatory requirements and evolving government standards may delay marketing of our new products for a considerable period of time, impose costly procedures upon our activities and result in a competitive advantage to larger companies that compete against us. We cannot assure you that the FDA or other regulatory agencies will approve any products developed by us, on a timely basis, if at all, or, if granted, that approval will not entail limiting the indicated uses for which we may market the product, which could limit the potential market for any of these products. Changes to the FDA approval process or ongoing regulatory requirements could make it more difficult for us to obtain FDA approval of our products or comply with ongoing requirements. Based on scientific developments, post-market experience, or other legislative or regulatory changes, the current FDA standards of review for approving new medical device products are sometimes more stringent than those that were applied in the past. For example, the FDA is currently evaluating the 510(k) process for clearing medical devices and may make substantial changes to industry requirements, including which devices are eligible for 510(k) clearance, the ability to rescind previously granted 510(k) clearances and additional requirements that may significantly impact the process. In addition, on September 27, 2007, through passage of the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, Congress passed legislation authorizing the FDA to require companies to undertake additional post-approval studies in order to assess known or signaled potential serious safety risks and to make any labeling changes necessary to address safety risks. Congress also empowered the FDA to require companies to formulate risk evaluation and mitigation strategies to ensure a drug’s benefits outweigh its risks. We cannot determine what effect changes in regulations or legal interpretations by the FDA or the courts, when and if promulgated or issued, may have on our business in the future. Changes could, among other things, require different labeling, monitoring of patients, interaction with physicians, education programs for patients or physicians, curtailment of necessary supplies, or limitations on product distribution. These changes, or others required by the FDA could have an adverse effect on the sales of these products. The FDA has authority to require a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy under the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 when necessary to address whether the benefits of these products continue to outweigh the risks. The evolving and complex nature of regulatory science and regulatory requirements, the broad authority and discretion of the FDA and the generally high level of regulatory oversight results in a continuing possibility that from time to time, we will be adversely affected by regulatory actions despite ongoing efforts and commitment to achieve and maintain full compliance with all regulatory requirements. 16 Modifications to our current products may require new marketing clearances or approvals or require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until such clearances or approvals are obtained. Any modification to a FDA-cleared product that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change or modification in its intended use, requires a new FDA 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a premarket approval. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make its own determination as to whether a modification requires a new 510(k) clearance or premarket approval, but the FDA may review and disagree with any decision reached by the manufacturer. In the future, we may make additional modifications to our products after they have received FDA clearance or approval and, in appropriate circumstances, determine that new clearance or approval is unnecessary. Regulatory authorities may disagree with our past or future decisions not to seek new clearance or approval and may require us to obtain clearance or approval for modifications to our products. If that were to occur for a previously cleared or approved product, we may be required to cease marketing or recall the modified device until we obtain the necessary clearance or approval. Under these circumstances, we may also be subject to significant regulatory fines or other penalties. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. We and our manufacturers will be required to comply with current good manufacturing practices and could be subject to suspensions or product withdrawals if found non-compliant. The FDA regulates the facilities, processes and procedures used to manufacture and market medical products in the U.S. Manufacturing facilities must be registered with the FDA and all products made in such facilities must be manufactured in accordance with “current good manufacturing practices,” or cGMP, regulations enforced by the FDA. Compliance with cGMP regulations requires the dedication of substantial resources and requires significant expenditures. The FDA periodically inspects our manufacturing facilities and those of our subcontractors and procedures to assure compliance. The FDA may cause a suspension or withdrawal of product approvals if regulatory standards are not maintained. In the event an approved manufacturing facility for a particular drug or medical device is required by the FDA to curtail or cease operations, or otherwise becomes inoperable, or a third party contract manufacturing facility faces manufacturing problems, obtaining the required FDA authorization to manufacture at the same or a different manufacturing site could result in production delays, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. We will be subject to ongoing federal and state regulations, and if we fail to comply, our business could be seriously harmed. Following initial regulatory approval of any products that we may develop, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after our products become commercially available. This would include results from any post-marketing tests or continued actions required by a condition of approval. The manufacturing facilities we may use to make any of our products may become subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. If a previously unknown problem or problems with a product or a manufacturing and laboratory facility used by us is discovered, the FDA may impose restrictions on that product or on the manufacturing facility, including requiring us to withdraw the product from the market. Any changes to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often requires FDA approval before the product, as modified, can be marketed. In addition, for products we develop in the future, we and our contract manufacturers may be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for submission of safety and other post-market information. If we or any of our contract manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: ● issue warning letters; ● impose civil or criminal penalties; ● suspend or withdraw our regulatory approval; ● suspend or terminate any of our ongoing clinical trials; ● refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; ● impose restrictions on our operations; 17 ● close the facilities of our contract manufacturers; and/or ● seize or detain products or require a product recall. Additionally, regulatory review covers a company’s activities in the promotion of its drugs, with significant potential penalties and restrictions for promotion of drugs for an unapproved use. Sales and marketing programs, such as illegal promotions to health care professionals, are under scrutiny for compliance with various mandated requirements. We are also required to submit information on open and completed clinical trials to public registries and databases. Failure to comply with these requirements could expose us to negative publicity, fines and penalties that could harm our business. If we violate regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, we may be fined, be forced to remove a product from the market or experience other adverse consequences, including delay, which would materially harm our financial results. Additionally, we may not be able to obtain the labeling claims necessary or desirable for product promotion. We and our sales personnel, whether employed by us or by others, must comply with various federal and state anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and similar laws, any breach of which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our relationships with physicians, hospitals and the marketers of our products are subject to scrutiny under various federal anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and similar laws, often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse laws are complex, and even minor, inadvertent violations can give rise to claims that the relevant law has been violated. Possible sanctions for violation of these fraud and abuse laws include monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration health programs, workers’ compensation programs and TRICARE, the healthcare system administered by or on behalf of the U.S. Department of Defense for uniformed services beneficiaries, including active duty and their dependents, retirees and their dependents, and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such prohibitions. Certain states have similar fraud and abuse laws, imposing substantial penalties for violations. Any government investigation or a finding of a violation of these laws would likely result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. Anti-kickback laws and regulations prohibit any knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for the referral of an individual or the ordering or recommending of the use of a product or service for which payment may be made by Medicare, Medicaid or other government-sponsored healthcare programs. We may engage additional physicians on a consulting basis. While these agreements with physicians will be structured with the intention of complying with all applicable laws, including the federal ban on physician self-referrals, commonly known as the “Stark Law,” state anti-referral laws and other applicable anti-kickback laws, it is possible that regulatory or enforcement agencies or courts may in the future view these agreements as prohibited arrangements that must be restructured or for which we would be subject to other significant civil or criminal penalties, or prohibit us from accepting referrals from these physicians. Because our strategy includes the involvement of physicians who consult with us on the design of our products, we could be materially impacted if regulatory or enforcement agencies or courts interpret our financial relationships with our physician advisors who refer or order our products to be in violation of applicable laws and determine that we would be unable to achieve compliance with such applicable laws. This could harm our reputation and the reputations of our physician advisors. In addition, the cost of noncompliance with these laws could be substantial since we could be subject to monetary fines and civil or criminal penalties, and we could also be excluded from federally funded healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, for non-compliance. The scope and enforcement of all of these laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change, especially in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations. There can be no assurance that federal or state regulatory or enforcement authorities will not investigate or challenge our current or future activities under these laws. Any investigation or challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any state or federal regulatory or enforcement review of us, regardless of the outcome, would be costly and time consuming. Additionally, we cannot predict the impact of any changes in these laws, whether these changes are retroactive or will have effect on a going-forward basis only. We are dependent on proprietary know-how. Our manufacturing know-how as to mixing, coating and cross-linking may be able to be duplicated, even if it is difficult to do so. There is no assurance that, should we apply for intellectual property protection for our intellectual property, we would be able to obtain such protection. Therefore, our competitors may develop or market technologies that are more effective or more commercially attractive than ours. 18 We also rely on trade secret protection to protect our interests in proprietary know-how and for processes for which patents are difficult to obtain or enforce. We may not be able to protect our trade secrets adequately. In addition, we rely on non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary technology. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Moreover, others may independently develop equivalent proprietary information, and third parties may otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. Any disclosure of confidential data into the public domain or to third parties could allow competitors to learn our trade secrets and use the information in competition against us. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, there is no assurance that such protections will preclude our competitors from developing and/or marketing similar products. While we are not aware of any third party intellectual property that would materially affect our business, our failure or inability to obtain patents and protect our proprietary information could result in our business being adversely affected. If we are not able to establish and maintain successful arrangements with third parties or successfully build our own sales and marketing infrastructure, we may not be able to commercialize our products, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. We are currently expanding our sales and marketing capabilities. To commercialize our products, we must continue to develop our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, which will be expensive and time consuming, or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services for us. The third parties may not be capable of successfully selling any of our products. We will have to commit significant resources to developing a marketing and sales force and supporting distribution capabilities. If we decide to enter into arrangements with third parties for performance of these services, we may find that they are not available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming, costly to defend and could result in our loss of significant rights and, in the case of patent infringement claims, the assessment of treble damages. On occasion, we may receive notices of claims of our infringement, misappropriation or misuse of other parties’ proprietary rights. We may have disputes regarding intellectual property rights with the parties that have licensed those rights to us. We may also initiate claims to defend our intellectual property. Intellectual property litigation, regardless of its outcome, is expensive and time-consuming, could divert management’s attention from our business and have a material negative effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, the outcome of such litigation may be unpredictable. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages—including treble damages if we were to be found to have willfully infringed a third party’s patent—to the party claiming infringement, and to develop non-infringing technology, stop selling our products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable or commercially practical terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis could harm our business. In addition, modifying our products to exclude infringing technologies could require us to seek re-approval or clearance from various regulatory bodies for our products, which would be costly and time consuming. Also, we may be unaware of pending patent applications that relate to our technology. Parties making infringement claims on future issued patents may be able to obtain an injunction that would prevent us from selling our products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property, which could harm our business. Our products risk exposure to product liability claims We are and, if successful in developing, testing and commercializing our products, will increasingly be, exposed to potential product liability risks, which are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of such products. It is likely we will be contractually obligated, under any distribution agreements that we enter into with respect to products we manufacture, to indemnify the individuals and/or entities that distribute our products against claims relating to the manufacture and sale of products distributed by such distribution partners. This indemnification liability, as well as direct liability to consumers for any defects in the products sold, could expose us to substantial risks and losses. While we have obtained product liability insurance, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. As we begin to sell and distribute our new line of proprietary products, we intend to increase the limits of our product liability insurance. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could result in judgments, fines, damages and liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur significant expense investigating and defending these claims, even if they do not result in liability. Moreover, even if no judgments, fines, damages or liabilities are imposed on us, our reputation could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Healthcare policy changes, including recent laws to reform the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on us. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been, and continue to be, proposals by legislators, regulators, and third-party payors to keep these costs down. Certain proposals, if passed, would impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our products, or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products from governmental agencies or third-party payors. These limitations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Various healthcare reform proposals have emerged at the federal and state levels. We cannot predict the exact effect newly enacted laws or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. However, the implementation of new legislation and regulation may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business, possibly materially. In addition, the enacted excise tax may materially and adversely affect our operating expenses and results of operations. Decisions in reimbursement levels by governmental or other third-party payors for procedures using our products may have an adverse impact on acceptance of our products. We believe that our products will be purchased principally by hospitals or physicians, which typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of our future customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payors is critical to the success of medical product companies because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement issues, would have an adverse impact on the acceptance of our products and the prices which our customers are willing to pay for them. Third-party payors have adopted, and are continuing to adopt, a number of healthcare policies intended to curb rising healthcare costs. These policies include: ● controls on government-funded reimbursement for healthcare services and price controls on medical products and services providers; ● challenges to the pricing of medical procedures or limits or prohibitions on reimbursement for specific devices and therapies through other means; and ● the introduction of managed care systems in which healthcare providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person. We are unable to predict whether federal, state or local healthcare reform legislation or regulation affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future, or what effect any such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Changes in healthcare systems in the U.S. in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our products or denies coverage for these procedures would also have an adverse impact on the acceptance of our products and the prices which our customers are willing to pay for them. It may be difficult to replace some of our suppliers. In general, raw materials essential to our businesses are readily available from multiple sources. However, for reasons of quality assurance, availability, or cost effectiveness, certain components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier. The Dow Chemical Company and the BASF Corporation are the principal manufacturers of the two polymers, polyethylene oxide and polyvinylpyrrolidone, respectively, that we primarily use in the manufacture of hydrogels. Carolina Silver is the principal manufacturer utilized in production of our TheraBond dressings. Carolina Silver utilizes a proprietary and patented manufacturing process. We believe that, due to the size and scale of production of our suppliers, there should be adequate supply of these raw materials from these manufacturers. In addition, our policy is to maintain sufficient inventory of components so that our production will not be significantly disrupted even if a particular component or material is not available for a period of time. However, there is no guarantee that our inventory will be sufficient to carry us through any disruption in supply. Because we have no direct control over our third-party suppliers, interruptions or delays in the products and services provided by these third parties may be difficult to remedy in a timely fashion. In addition, if such suppliers are unable or unwilling to deliver the necessary raw materials or products, we may be unable to redesign or adapt our technology to work without such raw materials or products or find alternative suppliers or manufacturers. In such events, we could experience interruptions, delays, increased costs or quality control problems. 20 Under our distribution agreement with Sorbion and our supply agreements with CCT, we receive finished goods from these parties. Because we have no direct control over these suppliers, interruptions or delays in the products and services provided by these parties may be difficult to remedy in a timely fashion. In addition, if such suppliers are unable or unwilling to deliver the necessary products, we would be unable to sell these products, and, therefore, could experience a significant adverse impact on our revenue. We are subject to state regulation with respect to electron beam radiation services and facilities. We are also subject to state regulation with respect to electron beam radiation services and facilities. The expansion of our business into the manufacturing and distribution of our products for consumer use will subject us to additional governmental regulation. Risks Related to the Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: ● technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors; ● additions or departures of key personnel; ● sales of our common stock, particularly under any registration statement for the purposes of selling any securities, including management shares; ● our ability to execute our business plan; ● our plans to make significant additional outlays of working capital before we expect to generate significant revenues and the uncertainty regarding when we will begin to generate significant revenues, if we are able to do so; ● operating results that fall below expectations; ● loss of any strategic relationship; ● industry developments; ● economic and other external factors; and ● period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also significantly affect the market price of our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. Although we currently have research coverage by securities and industry analysts, you should not invest in our common stock in anticipation that we will increase such coverage. If one or more of the analysts who covers us at any given time downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. 21 Our board of directors can authorize the issuance of preferred stock, which could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and make a change of control of us more difficult even if it might benefit our shareholders. Our board of directors is authorized to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the voting powers, preferences and other rights and limitations of the preferred stock. Accordingly, we may issue shares of preferred stock with a preference over our common stock with respect to dividends or distributions on liquidation or dissolution, or that may otherwise adversely affect the voting or other rights of the holders of common stock. Issuances of preferred stock, depending upon the rights, preferences and designations of the preferred stock, may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control, even if that change of control might benefit our shareholders. Offers or availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. As additional shares of our common stock become available for resale in the public market, the supply of our common stock will increase, which could decrease the price of our common stock. In addition, if our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, upon the expiration of any statutory holding period under Rule 144, upon the expiration of lock-up periods applicable to outstanding shares, or upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants, it could create a circumstance commonly referred to as an “overhang,” in anticipation of which the market price of our common stock could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. There are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. The ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require us to identify material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, which is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is also based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions, such as growth of the company or increased transaction volume, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. In addition, discovery and disclosure of a material weakness, by definition, could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. Such an occurrence could discourage certain customers or suppliers from doing business with us, cause downgrades in our future debt ratings leading to higher borrowing costs and affect how our stock trades. This could in turn negatively affect our ability to access public debt or equity markets for capital. We do not expect to pay dividends in the future. As a result, any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on an investment in our common stock will only occur if our stock price appreciates. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 22 