Risk Factors. If we are unable to successfully obtain necessary stockholder approval or otherwise consummate the transaction with Wacom for the sale of our assets, we will be forced into bankruptcy. Due to a lack of funds, we have ceased business operations and focused on the sale of our assets. While we believe that the binding asset purchase agreement with Wacom will close, risks remain until the transaction is consummated. Wacom or InPlay may terminate the agreement due to various factors outlined in the agreement, including our failure to obtain stockholder approval by a majority of our stockholders. If stockholders do not approve the sale of the assets, we cannot complete any such proposed deal and will be forced into bankruptcy. 7 As part of the asset purchase agreement, Wacom has advanced to us $350,000 for working capital and legal and other costs related to the transaction. If the transaction is not consummated, we could be required to repay Wacom amounts advanced and a termination fee. We believe that bankruptcy should be avoided if possible, as filing for bankruptcy will be both an expensive and lengthy process that will reduce the amount of cash available to pay our creditors. If stockholder approval of the asset purchase agreement is not obtained, or we are unable to negotiate satisfactory settlements with all our creditors, we may have no choice but to file for bankruptcy. Cash needed to successfully complete the close of the asset purchase transaction and satisfy regulatory obligations may deplete funds available to creditors or stockholders Assuming stockholder approval is obtained, and the asset sale is completed, we intend to use the remaining cash to negotiate, settle and satisfy to the best of our ability obligations discontinue business operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in closing the asset purchase transaction, or that the remaining cash will be sufficient to cover our outstanding debts and obligations. As such, there may be no remaining proceeds to distribute to stockholders. We may not be successful in our effort to liquidate assets and dissolve the corporation. We plan to put in place a proposed plan of liquidation and dissolution. We believe that such a plan will enable us to most effectively satisfy outstanding obligations and close the company. If we do not obtain stockholder approval for the plan, or other complications arise, we may not be successful in this effort. As a result of our history of operating losses, loss of major customers and other factors, our auditors have raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception. We have committed substantial resources to the establishment and support of new FinePoint customer relationships. We have minimal financial resources, and our cash flow from operating activities continues to be insufficient to meet our operating needs and other payment obligations. As a result of these factors, among others, our independent public accountants have raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments related to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may be necessary as a result of this uncertainty. As a result of receiving this opinion from our independent public accountants, we may experience possible adverse effects from our customers, on our creditworthiness, or on investor confidence, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business and the trading price of our common stock. Our failure to detect unknown defects in products that we have sold could result in future financial or other damages. We do not have sufficient funds to cover any product liability claims. Notwithstanding the testing that we have performed on our products, defects could be found in our existing or new products. These defects could result in product liability or warranty claims. In addition, any defects found in our products could result in indemnification claims, litigation, increased insurance costs, and increased service costs, any of which could discourage Wacom from consummating the asset purchase transaction. Additionally, defects in our products could result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could also seek and obtain damages from us. We do not have sufficient funds to cover warranty or other expenses that could arise in the future as a result of defects found in our products. 8 If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, or if we are found to have infringed third party intellectual property rights, our financial condition and future prospects could be materially harmed. We have entered into an agreement to sell substantially all of our assets. The price for these assets is largely linked to the value of our intellectual property. Any material change in the perceived value of these assets could impact our ability to successfully consummate the sale of the assets. We rely on a combination of patents and trade secret protection for most of our proprietary technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, and third parties. If any of these agreements are found to be unenforceable, we may be unable to adequately protect our technology. If any of these agreements are breached, especially by companies much larger than us, we may not have adequate financial resources to adequately enforce our rights. Also, others may come to know about or determine our trade secrets. It is possible that pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents. Additionally, our issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and claims may not be sufficient to provide meaningful protection. The laws of certain territories in which we develop, manufacture, or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. While we are currently not aware of any claims against us for the infringement of intellectual property rights, any such claim could cause a material adverse valuation of our intellectual property assets. We do not have sufficient funds to defend against any such claims, nor to pay any damages. We are subject to litigation risks. From time to time we may be subject to legal claims, with and without merit. We are involved in various claims and legal actions arising from the ordinary course of business including those with customers and suppliers and those involving employment matters. We believe it is unlikely that these claims will have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Regardless of their validity, such claims may divert management attention and have substantial defense expenses or settlement costs. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, we cannot predict the resolution of any particular claim and its ultimate impact on our business and financial condition. We face risks related to rapidly changing technology. We are subject to the challenges of rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards characteristic of the market for electronic components. These challenges include predicting the nature and timing of technological changes and the direction of evolving industry standards and identifying, developing, and successfully introducing new technologies. If our competitors develop and introduce products that are more advanced than ours, the value of our technology portfolio could be reduced, and our ability to consummate the asset purchase transaction with Wacom would be compromised. Our stock price has been volatile. The price of our common stock fluctuates significantly. During 2009, our stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market and currently trades on the Pink Sheets OTC Market. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response a variety of factors. Item 