ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our operations and cash flows are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. As discussed above, we have entered into the Merger Agreement pursuant to which we are to be acquired by FUJI. We expect the Merger to occur shortly following our special meeting of shareholders on March 29, 2012, after which SonoSite will cease to be a standalone business and will continue as a wholly owned subsidiary of FUJI. Accordingly, the risk factors below, excepting the first two risk factors, should be read with the understanding that such risk factors would affect a holder of our common stock only in the event that the Merger is not consummated and we remain a standalone, publicly traded company. Risks Related to our Pending Acquisition by FUJI Consummation of the tender offer may adversely affect the liquidity of the shares of our common stock not tendered in the offer. On December 15, 2011, we announced that we had entered into the Merger Agreement with FUJI pursuant to which FUJI, through Purchaser, would commence a tender offer of $54.00 per share to acquire all of the outstanding shares of our common stock. The tender offer commenced on January 17, 2012 and was completed on February 15, 2012. Pursuant to the tender offer, Purchaser acquired a total of 12,697,279 shares of our common stock, which constitute approximately 89.94% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. As a result of the tender offer, the number of our shareholders and the number of shares of our common stock publicly held were greatly reduced and we may no longer be able to satisfy the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Select Market, which could adversely affect the liquidity and market value of such shares of our common stock held by the public. 10 Table of Contents Because the Merger has not yet closed, we cannot be sure that the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement will be consummated, which could have a negative effect on our financial performance and stock price. The obligation of FUJI to consummate the Merger is subject to certain conditions, including the absence of any legal prohibition prohibiting the consummation of the Merger. If the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement are not met or waived, the acquisition of us by FUJI may not occur. These conditions are described in more detail in the Merger Agreement which we filed, as an exhibit to the Current Report on Form 8-K, with the SEC on December 15, 2011. We cannot ensure that each of the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement will be satisfied or that the Merger will occur when or as expected. Our announcement of having entered into the Merger Agreement and of having consummated the tender offer by Purchaser could cause a material disruption to our business. For example, to the extent that our announcement of the acquisition creates uncertainty among customers or resellers such that they cancel orders or terminate their respective agreements with us, our results of operations could be negatively affected. Decreased revenue could have a variety of adverse effects, including negative consequences to our relationships with customers, resellers and others. Risks in the Event the Merger is not Consummated We may be unable to expand the market for our products to new applications and new users, which could limit our ability to grow our business. We seek to sell our products to current users of ultrasound and ICG equipment, physicians, and other healthcare providers who do not currently use ultrasound or ICG equipment. Our market focus, and we believe our greatest growth opportunities, will come from new point-of-care clinical applications and products and new users of ultrasound or ICG technology. Any new users of ultrasound not only will require training and education to properly administer ultrasound examinations but also must develop an appreciation of the treatment value of our products so that our products will become successfully integrated into their day-to-day practices. Although we have spent, and will continue to spend, considerable marketing resources educating potential customers about the value of HCU products in their medical practices, our efforts may be unsuccessful. If these potential customers are unable or unwilling to be trained due to cost, time constraints, unavailability of courses or other reasons, or if they consider our products nonessential to their medical practices, our ability to expand the market for our products and to increase our revenues could be limited. Our efforts to integrate the business and technology of any past and future acquisition may result in significant costs or create significant disruptions that outweigh the benefits of any such acquisition. On June 30, 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of VisualSonics, Inc. (“VisualSonics”), a leader in the development, manufacturing, and marketing of ultra high-resolution, ultrasound-based imaging technology (“micro-ultrasound”) designed to enable discovery research, medical diagnosis and imaging small physiological structures in humans and animals. VisualSonics’ micro-ultrasound product platform currently serves the pre-clinical research market. As of December 31, 2011, VisualSonics was successfully assimilated into our operations. On August 14, 2009, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of CDIC, a leader in ICG for noninvasive hemodynamic assessment that develops, manufactures, and markets ICG devices and sensors. The ICG product line provides non-invasive assessment of cardiac output and other hemodynamic parameters. As of December 31, 2009, CDIC was successfully assimilated into our operations. We may explore the possible acquisition of one or more medical device companies or medical device products or technologies in an effort to expand our product portfolio, expand our sales channels, create international operating leverage, improve marketing and other efficiencies or leverage manufacturing and supply chain economics. If we are unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to successfully consummate and integrate acquisitions into our business, our ability to grow our business may be affected. Any acquisition we do in the future or have done in the past may be costly to integrate and we may experience: • difficulty in integrating operations, including combining teams and processes in various functional areas; • delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired company or technology; • limited market acceptance of acquired products or technology; • diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • lack of or limited direct experience in new markets we may enter; • difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals or reimbursement codes for acquired technologies; • increased risk of product liability actions from acquired products or technologies; • additional costs, including fees and expenses of professionals involved in completing the integration process; and • unexpected costs associated with existing liabilities of any acquired business. 11 Table of Contents In addition, an acquisition could materially impair our operating results by causing us to incur additional debt or requiring us to incur acquisition or integration related charges. If we fail in our attempts to integrate any acquired business or technology, or if the business fails to meet our forecasts, our financial resources or financial results could be negatively impaired. If healthcare reimbursement policies place limits on which providers may receive payment for imaging services or substantially reduce reimbursement amounts or coverage for specific procedures, market acceptance of our products may be reduced. Continued demand for our products depends in part on the extent to which our customers continue to receive reimbursement for the use of our products from third-party payers such as Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurers (and equivalent third-party payers in foreign countries). Presently, reimbursement policies for physician-performed diagnostic ultrasound services are fairly unrestricted in the United States and payment levels are sufficient to enable providers to recoup the costs of purchasing ultrasound systems in a reasonable timeframe. The continuing efforts of governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare could, however, result in reduced or more restrictive payment for ultrasound services. Additionally, some private insurers have implemented imaging privileging programs as a means of controlling utilization of imaging services. Finally, both governmental and private third-party payers are calling for increasing amounts of clinical evidence of beneficial patient outcomes in addition to proof of clinical efficacy as a prerequisite to granting new or continued coverage for technologies and devices. If reimbursement policies for physician-performed diagnostic ultrasound become more restrictive, or if heightened requirements for proof of clinical efficacy are imposed, it may adversely affect our sales revenues. We may be unable to compete effectively and could fail to generate sufficient revenue to maintain our business. Competition in the cart-based and portable ultrasound systems market is very significant. Our main competitors in this industry are GE Healthcare, Siemens, and Philips. These companies are very large global organizations that have the following competitive advantages over us: • significantly greater financial and infrastructure resources; • larger research and development staffs; • greater experience in product manufacturing, marketing and distribution; • greater brand name recognition; and • long-standing relationships with many of our existing and potential customers. These manufacturers of cart-based and portable ultrasound systems could use their greater resources to further increase the level of competition in the market through various means, including: • price and payment terms that we are unable to match; • marketing strategies that bundle the sale of portable systems with other medical products that we do not sell; • technological innovation; • market penetration and hospital systems integration that we cannot match; • employee compensation that we cannot match; and • complementary services such as warranty protection, maintenance and product training that are outside of the scope of our product offerings. Existing product supply relationships between these competitors and our potential customers could adversely impact the level or rate of adoption of our products due to brand loyalty or preferred customer discounts. Competing portable or traditional cart-based ultrasound devices may be more accepted or cost-effective than our products. Competition from these companies for employees with experience in the primary point-of-care market could result in higher turnover of our employees. If we are unable to respond to competitive pressures within the cart-based and HCU markets, we could experience delayed or reduced market acceptance of our products, higher expenses and lower revenue. We expect the market for high-performance HCU products and the competition in the HCU market will continue to increase as new and existing competitors enter the portable ultrasound market or modify their existing products to more closely approximate the combined portability, quality, performance and cost of our products. If we are unable to compete effectively with current or new entrants to the high-performance HCU market, we will be unable to generate sufficient revenue to maintain our business. In October 2009, we resolved all pending patent litigation with GE Healthcare. Under the terms of the settlement, GE Healthcare made an up-front royalty payment to SonoSite of $21 million and will pay an ongoing royalty on U.S. sales and production of hand-carried ultrasound systems in exchange for a non-exclusive perpetual, nontransferable worldwide license to the ‘412 patent. We may face increasing competition from GE Healthcare as a result of this settlement and the license granted to GE Healthcare under it. 12 Table of Contents We may be negatively impacted by guidelines, recommendations and studies published by various organizations that can reduce the use of our products. Professional societies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in healthcare issues may publish guidelines, recommendations or studies to the healthcare and patient communities from time to time. Recommendations of government agencies or these other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, cost-effectiveness and use of related therapies. Organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our products and those of our competitors. If any of these organizations do make an adverse recommendation, then we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to maintain our business. Unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including inflation, recession, or other changes in economic conditions, may result in lower consumer healthcare spending as well as physician and hospital spending and availability of credit. If demand for medical devices or budgets for capital improvements decline, our revenue could be adversely affected. Additionally, if our suppliers face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may become unable to continue to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products, which could result in sales disruption. We may face significant challenges if global economic conditions remain unstable or worsen, including reduced demand for our products and services, increased order cancellations, longer sales cycles and slower adoption of new technologies; increased difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; increased price competition in our served markets; increased prices in components as a result of higher commodities prices; supply chain interruptions, which could disrupt our ability to produce our products; and increased risk of impairment of investments, goodwill and intangible and long-lived assets. Changes in the healthcare industry could result in a reduction in the size of the market for our products or may require us to decrease the selling price for our products, either of which could have a negative impact on our financial performance. Trends toward managed care, healthcare cost containment, and other changes in government and private sector initiatives in the United States and other countries in which we do business are placing increased emphasis on lowering the cost of medical services, which could adversely affect the demand for or the prices of our products. For example: • major third-party payers of hospital and non-hospital based healthcare services, including Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurers, could revise their payment methodologies and impose stricter standards for reimbursement of imaging procedures charges and/or a lower or more bundled reimbursement; • the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act Public Law 111-148), as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 Public Law 111-152), includes an excise tax on medical device manufacturers designed to raise $20 billion over ten years. Unless this tax is repealed, beginning in January of 2013 medical device manufacturers will be required to pay 2.3% of U.S. revenue from the sale of medical devices to meet their obligation.; • there has been a consolidation among healthcare facilities and purchasers of medical devices in the United States and foreign countries who prefer to limit the number of suppliers from whom they purchase medical products, and these entities may decide to stop purchasing our products or demand discounts on our prices; • there is economic pressure to contain healthcare costs in markets throughout the world; and • there are proposed and existing laws and regulations in domestic and international markets regulating pricing and profitability of companies in the healthcare industry. These trends could lead to pressure to reduce prices for our products and could cause a decrease in the demand for our products in any given market that could adversely affect our revenue and profitability, which could harm our business. Failure to develop and innovate new products and product features could adversely affect our business and negatively impact future revenues. Because substantially all of our revenue comes from the sales of our existing HCU systems and related products, in order to remain competitive, our future financial success will depend in large part upon our ability to successfully invent, deliver and market new and innovative products and product features. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, we released several new products, including the Edge ultrasound system and the NanoMaxx ultrasound tool,which are customized for different clinical applications. The development of new, technologically advanced products and product features is a complex and uncertain process requiring great innovation and the ability to anticipate technological and market trends and needs. We may be unable to achieve or maintain market acceptance of any new products we develop, and we may be required to expend more costs than anticipated to successfully develop and introduce these products. Without successful product innovation and market introduction of new product offerings and feature improvements, our products will become technologically obsolete and we will be unable to compete effectively in the ultrasound market. Additionally, we may be unable to create or introduce new products or features in the CVDM or ultra high-frequency market or any new markets that we may enter. Even with successful innovation and development, we cannot assure you that revenues will continue to remain at or above current levels or that we will continue to be financially profitable. 13 Table of Contents Because technological innovation is complex, it can require long development and testing periods. If the launch of new products or product improvements is delayed for any reason, our business may be adversely affected. Factors which could cause delays in our product development or release schedules or cancellation of product development projects include: • research and development challenges; • lack of technological expertise outside of ultrasound; • defects or errors in newly developed products or software for those products; • third-party intellectual property rights that preclude us from pursuing a new product design; and • the availability, cost and performance of supplies and components needed for new products. We may experience delays in our innovation cycle and in the scheduled introduction of future new products. Any such delays could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively in the markets that we serve and could adversely affect our operating results. We could experience production delays, cost increases, and lost sales if our suppliers fail to supply components on a timely basis or if we are required to switch suppliers. We depend on suppliers, including some single-source suppliers, to provide highly specialized parts, such as custom-designed integrated circuits, cable assemblies and transducer components. We also depend on single-source suppliers to provide other components, such as image displays, batteries, capacitors and cables. We do not maintain significant inventories of certain components, and may experience an interruption of supply if a supplier is unable or unwilling to meet our time, quantity and quality requirements. There are relatively few alternative sources of supply for some of these components. An increase in demand for some parts by other companies could interrupt our supply of components. We have in the past experienced supply problems in timeliness and quality, but to date these problems have not resulted in lost sales or lower demand. Nevertheless, if we experience an interruption of supply or are required to switch suppliers, the manufacture and delivery of our products could be interrupted, our manufacturing costs could substantially increase and product sales could be substantially reduced. In addition, our circuit boards are produced in Malaysia by one of the world’s largest electronic manufacturing services suppliers. Our agreement does not provide for any guaranteed minimum number of circuit boards to be either manufactured or purchased. We provide the manufacturer with our forecasted demand for circuit boards, which forms the basis of our production plan. These circuit boards are highly customized, and securing a different source of supply for this critical component of our product would be particularly difficult. If we experience delays in the receipt or deterioration in product yields of these critical components, we may experience delays in manufacturing resulting in lost sales or an increase in costs, which could cause deterioration in our gross margin. If we experience problems in our relationships with our distributors, our ability to sell our products could be limited. We currently depend on distributors to help promote market acceptance and demand for our products in countries in which we do not have a direct sales force. Distributors that are in the business of selling other medical products may not devote a sufficient level of resources and support required to generate awareness of our products and grow or maintain product sales. If our distributors are unwilling or unable to market and sell our products, or if they do not perform to our expectations, we could experience delayed or reduced market acceptance and sales of our products. In addition, disagreements with our distributors or non-performance by these third parties could lead to costly and time-consuming litigation or arbitration and disrupt distribution channels for a period of time and require us to re-establish a distribution channel. Increased reliance on group purchasing organizations and U.S. governmental agencies may lead to pressure on pricing and increased competition. We depend on group purchasing organizations and U.S. governmental agencies for significant revenues. These groups represent 61.1% of our U.S. revenues. The multi-year agreements with these entities are complex, and include contractual pricing limitations, and required fees. These agreements provide access to customers and contain provisions related to pricing, usage, cost-effectiveness, and use of competitor products. This enhanced purchasing power may also lead to pressure on pricing and increased use of preferred vendors. In addition, our status as a U.S. government contractor requires us to comply with numerous laws and regulations. If we do not manage these relationship effectively, renew on satisfactory terms or fulfill the contractual and legal requirements with the group purchasing organizations and U.S. governmental agencies, our ability to sell to them could be restricted or terminated and our results could be adversely affected. During 2010, we determined that we were not meeting the requirements of certain contractual pricing agreements. A non-recurring charge to revenue of $1.1 million was recorded for the estimated liability. 14 Table of Contents We derive a significant portion of our revenue from foreign sales and are subject to the risks of doing business in other countries. We have eleven wholly owned operating subsidiaries located in the following countries: Australia, Canada, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Spain and the United Kingdom. The percentage of our total revenue originating outside the United States equaled 48%, 51% and 54% for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Successful maintenance of these international operations requires us to: • maintain an efficient and self-reliant local infrastructure; • continue to attract, hire, train, manage and retain qualified local sales and administrative personnel; • continue to identify new non-U.S. distributors and maintain our relationships with our existing distributors; • comply with diverse and potentially burdensome local regulatory requirements and export laws, including license requirements, trade restrictions and tariff increases; and • maintain complex information, financial, distribution and control systems. The international sale and shipment of our products subject us to extensive United States and foreign governmental trade regulations. Failure to comply with any legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in numerous ways including, but not limited to, denial of export privileges, criminal, civil, and administrative penalties; fines; seizure of shipments; and restrictions on certain business activities. Our presence in international markets has required, and will continue to require, substantial financial and managerial resources. The costs of maintaining our presence in international markets are unpredictable and difficult to control. In addition, we may be subject to the following conditions in countries where we conduct our operations: • changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social and political conditions; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • difficulty in enforcing any judgment against non-U.S. distributors or other third parties upon which our business is heavily dependent; and • reduced protection for our intellectual property rights. Despite our expenditures and efforts internationally to mitigate the challenges above, we may not continue to generate a proportional substantial increase in international revenue, and such a deficiency would negatively impact our operating results. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported revenue and earnings. Total sales denominated in a currency other than the U.S. Dollar (“USD”) were US$100.0 million or 32.6% of our total consolidated revenue and total expenses denominated in a currency other than USD were US$64.6 million or 31.9% of our total consolidated operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011. As a result, our results of operations could be adversely affected by certain movements in exchange rates. Although we take steps to hedge a portion of our net foreign currency exposures, there is no assurance that our hedging strategy will be successful or that the hedging markets will have sufficient liquidity or depth for us to implement our strategy in a cost-effective manner. We seek to manage the counterparty risk associated with engaging in foreign currency contracts by limiting transactions to counterparties with which we have established banking relationships. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, 71.0% of our accounts receivable balance was from international customers, of which 38.5%, or US$32.0 million, was denominated in a currency other than USD. Although we regularly review our receivable positions in foreign countries for any indication that collection may be at risk, our revenue from international sales may be adversely affected by longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in receivables collection. If we, or our suppliers, are unable to obtain timely U.S. and foreign governmental regulatory approvals applicable to our products and manufacturing practices, we could experience product introduction delays, production delays, cost increases and lost sales and our future revenues may be adversely affected. Our products, our manufacturing and marketing activities, and the manufacturing activities of our third-party medical device manufacturers are subject to extensive regulation by a number of governmental agencies, including the FDA, and comparable international agencies. We and our third-party manufacturers are or may be required to: • obtain prior clearance or approval from these agencies before we can market and sell our products; • undergo rigorous inspections by domestic and international agencies; and • satisfy content requirements for all of our sales and promotional materials. The process for obtaining regulatory approval can be lengthy and expensive, and the results are unpredictable. If we are unable to obtain clearances or approvals needed to market existing or new products, or obtain such clearances or approvals in a timely manner, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Moreover, clearances and approvals, if granted, may limit the uses for which a product may be marketed, which could reduce or eliminate the commercial benefit of manufacturing any such product. 15 Table of Contents To ensure that manufacturers adhere to good manufacturing practices, medical device manufacturers are routinely subject to periodic inspections by the FDA and may be inspected by foreign regulatory agencies from countries in which we do business. In addition, BSI performs periodic assessments of our manufacturing processes and quality system. Compliance with the regulations of various agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, may require us to incur substantial costs and may delay or prevent the introduction of new or improved products. Although to date these actions by regulatory bodies have not required us to incur substantial costs or delay product shipments, we expect to experience further inspections and incur additional costs as a result of governmental regulation. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action, including product recall orders, the issuance of fines, injunctions, civil and criminal penalties, detaining or banning our products, and operating restrictions. Our third-party medical device manufacturers may also be subject to the same sanctions if they fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations and, as a result, may fail to supply us with components required to manufacture our products. Failure to sustain profitability, grow, or manage our growth could impair our ability to achieve our business objectives. For the year ended December 31, 2011, our revenue increased to $306.0 million from $275.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. We intend to continue to grow our business; however, we may be unable to sustain or increase our revenue or profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We may incur losses if we cannot increase or sustain our revenue. Additionally, operating expenses would increase if we continue to pursue acquisitions of companies or technologies to further our growth. Future growth could strain our existing management and operational and financial resources and, if we are unable to manage this growth successfully and retain or attract qualified personnel, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected. In order to manage our growth effectively, we will need to improve the productivity and efficiency of our existing sales, manufacturing, operational, administrative, and international support staff and our management and information systems. We may be unable to hire and retain the personnel necessary to operate and expand our business. We also may be unable to increase the productivity and efficiency of our existing resources, which would impair our financial results. We may be unable to predict our sales or plan manufacturing requirements with accuracy, which may adversely affect our operating results. Our customers typically order products on a purchase order basis. In some circumstances, customer orders may be cancelled, changed or delayed on short notice. Lack of significant order backlog makes it difficult for us to forecast future sales with certainty and could result in over- or under- production, which could lead to higher expense, lower than anticipated revenue, and reduced gross margin. Varying quarterly demands from our customers, particularly as we introduce new products, also make it difficult to accurately forecast component and product requirements, exposing us to the following risks: • If we overestimate our requirements, we may be obligated to purchase more components or third-party products than we need; and • If we underestimate our requirements or experience shortages of product components from time to time, we could experience an interruption in revenue, because our third-party manufacturers and suppliers may have an inadequate product or product component inventory to satisfy our requirements. The final assembly and testing of our products is done at both our Bothell, Washington factory and our VisualSonics factory in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, where we integrate different components manufactured by various suppliers. If we encounter supplier, regulatory, engineering or technical difficulties in manufacturing on account of events at our factory or our suppliers’ factories, we may incur delays in delivery of these products to customers, which could adversely affect our revenues. Our reliance on a single corporate headquarters and limited manufacturing facilities may expose us to greater risk from natural disasters or other unforeseen catastrophic events. Our corporate headquarters and manufacturing facilities for clinical products are located in two buildings in Bothell, Washington, in close proximity to each other. The manufacturing facilities for VisualSonics are in a single building in Toronto, Canada. Despite precautions taken by us, a natural disaster such as an earthquake or other unanticipated catastrophic events at our Bothell location could significantly impair our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business. Our facilities information data center and certain manufacturing equipment would be difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. Such catastrophic events may also destroy any inventory of product or components and information systems. While we carry insurance for natural disasters and business interruption at both our Bothell and Toronto facilities, the occurrence of such an event could result in losses that exceed the amount of our insurance coverage, which would impair our financial results. 16 Table of Contents Existing or potential intellectual property claims and litigation either initiated by or against us may divert our resources and subject us to significant liability for damages, substantial litigation expense and the loss of our proprietary rights. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation. Others may initiate patent litigation against us. For example, in 2007 and again in 2008, GE Healthcare initiated patent litigation against us, alleging that we infringed several of their patents and attempting to invalidate one of our key patents. In 2009, we settled all pending patent litigation worldwide with GE Healthcare. If we fail to successfully defend claims against us, we may be required to pay monetary damages (including treble damages), and, unless we are able to redesign our products to avoid infringing the asserted patents or to license proprietary rights from them, we may be prevented from continuing to market and sell certain of our products, sales of which could represent a substantial portion of our total revenue. If this outcome were to occur, we may be unable to redesign our products in a timely and cost effective manner, and licensing proprietary rights may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Even if we are successful in defending these actions and in proving infringement, we would incur substantial costs that could adversely affect our financial condition and the actions will be distracting to management. We may become subject to interference proceedings conducted in patent and trademark offices to determine the priority of inventions. There are numerous issued and pending patents in the ultrasound field. The validity and breadth of medical technology patents may involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles may remain unresolved. We may be liable for infringing the intellectual property of others as there could be existing patents of which we are unaware, or pending applications of which we are unaware which may later result in issued patents, that one or more of our products may infringe. We may also become involved in the defense and prosecution, if necessary, of intellectual property suits, patent interferences, opposition proceedings and other administrative proceedings. Involvement in intellectual property claims and litigation, including those described above, could have significant adverse consequences, including: • diversion of management, scientific and financial resources; • exposure to significant adverse judgments and financial liabilities; • substantial litigation costs; • product shipment delays and lost sales; • inability to design around third party patents; • modification of our products; and • discontinuation of product sales. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. Much of our value arises out of our proprietary technology and intellectual property for the design, manufacture and use of point-of-care ultrasound imaging systems, including development of point-of-care high-frequency micro ultrasound technology and pre-clinical high-frequency micro ultrasound systems. We rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws to protect our proprietary technology and limit the ability of others to compete with us using the same or similar technology. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property, which could harm our business. We currently hold 161 U.S and foreign patents relating to our technology. We also license a number of patents from academic institutions, other commercial entities and licensing organizations, including key patents relating to our high-frequency micro ultrasound technology and our LumenVu technology. A number of other patents are pending in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. Although we enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners, and generally control access to and distribution of our proprietary information, the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation. In addition, we do not know whether we will be able to defend our proprietary rights since the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of proprietary rights is still evolving. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, costly and time-intensive. We may fail to stop or prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. If we cannot prevent other companies from using our proprietary technology or if our patents are found invalid or otherwise unenforceable, we may be unable to compete effectively against other manufacturers of ultrasound systems, which could decrease our market share. In addition, the breach of a patent licensing agreement by us may result in termination of a patent license. 17 Table of Contents We may incur greater than expected warranty expense. We expect our warranty liability and expense to continue to increase significantly due to the five-year warranty offered with the Edge,NanoMaxx, S Series, M-Turbo, MicroMaxx and BioZ systems. Should actual failure rates and repair or replacement costs differ from our estimates, additional warranty expense may be incurred and our financial results may be materially affected. Our business objectives and financial results depend on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. Our success depends heavily on our ability to attract and retain the services of certain key employees or certain technical expertise. Competition among medical device companies for qualified employees is intense. We may fail to retain these key employees, and we may fail to attract qualified replacements if they do leave. We do not maintain key-person insurance on any of our employees. We do not have employment agreements with any of our employees except for employees in certain countries outside the United States and change in control agreements with certain members of senior management. The loss of any of our key employees could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our product development or business objectives. In addition, our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our management to operate effectively, both individually and as a group. We must successfully manage transition and replacement issues that may result from the departure or retirement of members of our senior management. Transitions of management personnel may cause disruption to our operations or customer relationships or a decline in our financial results. Seasonality and concentration of revenues at the end of the quarter could cause our revenues to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decrease in our stock price. As a result of customer buying patterns and the efforts of our sales force to meet or exceed year-end and quarterly quotas, historically we have earned a substantial portion of each year’s revenues during the last quarter and a substantial portion of each quarter’s revenues during its last month. If expected revenues at the end of any quarter are delayed, our revenues for that quarter could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decrease in our stock price. Our investment securities may be adversely impacted by economic factors beyond our control, and we may incur impairment charges to our investment portfolio. Our cash and cash equivalents made up over 23.7% of our total assets as of December 31, 2011. Although our holdings are liquid, economic factors could impact the liquidity of our portfolio and result in impairments to our investment portfolio, which could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flow and reported earnings. Product liability and other claims initiated against us and product field actions could increase our costs, delay or reduce our sales and damage our reputation, adversely affecting our financial condition. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability, malpractice or warranty claims inherent in the sale and support of medical device products, including those based on claims that the use or failure of one of our products resulted in a misdiagnosis or harm to a patient. Such claims may cause financial loss, damage our reputation by raising questions about our products’ safety and efficacy, and interfere with our efforts to market our products. Although to date we have not been involved in any medical malpractice or product liability litigation, we may incur significant liability if such litigation were to occur. We may also face adverse publicity resulting from product field actions or regulatory proceedings brought against us. Although we currently maintain liability insurance in amounts we believe are commercially reasonable, any product liability we incur may exceed our insurance coverage. Liability insurance is expensive and may cease to be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A product liability or other claim or product field action not covered by our insurance or exceeding our coverage could significantly impair our financial condition. In addition, a product field action or a liability claim against us could significantly harm our reputation and make it more difficult to obtain the funding and commercial relationships necessary to maintain our business. If we fail to comply with our obligations in our license with ATL, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. We license certain technology from ATL that is incorporated into our single technology platform, and we use this ATL technology in all of our HCU systems. A substantial majority of our revenue is attributable to products incorporating this ATL technology. ATL may terminate our license in the event of an uncured material default by us in our obligations under the license agreement. The termination or other loss of our license to use ATL technology would significantly impair our ability to manufacture, market and sell our products. If this license is terminated, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to maintain our business. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS None. 