ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Our results of operations are subject to significant quarterly variation and periodic fluctuation. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly due to a combination of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: the timing of new product introductions by us or our competitors; legal costs; the timing of regulatory approvals; the timing of shipment of orders from major customers and distributors, including bulk orders from governmental entities and demo orders from new distributors; seasonal buying patterns of our customers; development and promotional expenses relating to new product introductions; the revenue mix by product and geography; changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; foreign exchange rates; fluctuations in our consolidated tax rates; our ability to meet demand for our products; the market acceptance of our products; changes in distribution channels; and the ability of our sales force to effectively market and sell our products. Accordingly, our quarterly sales and operating results may vary significantly in the future, and period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. If our products, including our new MicroMaxx system, do not gain market acceptance, we will fail to generate sufficient revenue to maintain and grow our business. The market for high-performance, HCU systems is relatively new. We seek to sell our products to current users of ultrasound, as well as to physicians and other healthcare providers who do not currently use ultrasound. The success of our products depends on their acceptance by the medical community, patients and third-party payers as medically useful, safe and cost-effective. In June 2005, we began shipping our newest product, the MicroMaxx system. Users of cart-based ultrasound systems may not accept the MicroMaxx system, which could discourage widespread new users and uses for them. Our existing customers may not accept the MicroMaxx system due to pricing and functionality differences. If demand for the MicroMaxx system does not meet our projections, we may experience excess inventory levels and may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to maintain and grow our business. Competing portable or traditional cart-based ultrasound devices may be more accepted or cost-effective than our products. Physicians and other healthcare providers may adopt our products, particularly our newest product, at a slow rate, if at all. Although customers who are experienced in ultrasound procedures will need little, if any, specialized training to use our products, any new users of ultrasound will require training and education to properly administer ultrasound examinations. If these potential customers are unable or unwilling to be trained due to cost, time constraints, unavailability of courses or other reasons, we could experience limited demand for our products. If the market fails to accept our products, we will be unable to generate sufficient revenue to maintain our business. If we experience difficulties in manufacturing our new MicroMaxx system, we may fail to meet our 2006 revenue projections or we may incur greater than expected warranty expense. We began shipping the MicroMaxx system in June 2005 and it accounted for 38% of total system revenue during the six-month period ended December 31, 2005. The final assembly and testing of the MicroMaxx system is done at our Bothell, Washington facility incorporating components manufactured by various suppliers. If we 12 encounter supplier, regulatory, engineering or technical difficulties in manufacturing the MicroMaxx system, we may incur delays in delivery of these products to customers that could adversely affect our revenues for 2006 and beyond. Except for certain items that may be shipped with the MicroMaxx system, we include a five-year warranty with the MicroMaxx system. Given the length of the warranty period, the warranty liability for the MicroMaxx system or its components is more difficult to estimate than it has been for our other products that have a one-year warranty. We expect our warranty liability and expense to continue to increase significantly due to the five-year warranty offered with this product. Should actual failure rates and repair or replacement costs differ from estimates, additional warranty expense may be incurred and our results may be materially affected. If we are unable to compete effectively, we will fail to generate sufficient revenue to maintain our business. We currently face competition from companies that manufacture cart-based and portable ultrasound systems. The dominant competitors in this industry are GE Healthcare, Siemens, and Philips. These competitors are very large, global organizations and have the following advantages over us: significantly greater financial and infrastructure resources; larger research and development staffs; greater experience in product manufacturing, marketing and distribution; greater brand name recognition; and long-standing relationships with many of our existing and potential customers. These manufacturers of cart-based and portable ultrasound systems could use their greater resources to increase and withstand competition through various means, including price and payment terms, marketing strategies that bundle the sale of portable systems with other medical products, technological innovation, market penetration, employee compensation, hospital systems integration and complementary services such as warranty protection, maintenance and product training. Existing product supply relationships between these competitors and our potential customers could discourage widespread adoption of our products due to brand loyalty or preferred customer discounts. Competition from these companies for employees with experience in the primary point-of-care market could result in higher turnover of our employees. If we are unable to respond to competitive pressures within the cart-based and HCU markets, we could experience delayed or reduced market acceptance of our products, higher expenses and lower revenue. In addition, as the market for high-performance HCU develops, we expect competition to increase as potential and existing competitors enter the portable market or modify their existing products to more closely approximate the combined portability, quality, performance and cost of our products. Our current competitors in the portable market include Siemens, GE Healthcare, Philips, Biosound Esaote, Inc., Medison America, Terason, and Zonare. These competitors may develop highly portable or point-of-care ultrasound systems that offer the same or greater reliability and quality, perform greater or more useful functions or are more cost-effective than our products. Some of these competitors may also be able to use their marketing resources to gain a competitive advantage by more effectively building brand awareness of their products. If we are unable to compete effectively with current or new entrants to the high-performance, HCU market, we will be unable to generate sufficient revenue to maintain our business. Our establishment, maintenance and expansion of direct sales and distribution operations will require a significant investment of our financial and management resources and may fail to generate a substantial increase in sales. We have eight wholly-owned sales subsidiaries located in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Spain, Japan, Canada, Australia and China. Establishing, maintaining and expanding these operations will require us to: substantially increase our costs of operations; establish an efficient and self-reliant local infrastructure; attract, hire, train and retain qualified local sales and administrative personnel; comply with additional local regulatory requirements; and expand our information, financial, distribution and control systems to manage expanded global operations. 13 Our movement into international markets has required, and will continue to require, substantial financial and management resources. The costs of this expansion are unpredictable, difficult to control and may exceed budgeted amounts. Despite our expenditures and efforts, we may not generate a substantial increase in international revenue, which would impair our operating results. Changes in the healthcare industry could result in a reduction in the size of the market for our products or may require us to decrease the selling price for our products, each of which could have a negative impact on our financial performance. Trends toward managed care, healthcare cost containment, and other changes in government and private sector initiatives in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business are placing increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical therapies, which could adversely affect the sale and/or the prices of our products. For example: Major third-party payers of hospital and pre-hospital services, including Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurers, have substantially revised their payment methodologies during the last few years which has resulted in stricter standards for reimbursement of hospital and pre-hospital charges for certain medical procedures; Numerous legislative proposals have been considered that would result in major reforms in the U.S. and foreign healthcare systems that could have an adverse effect on our business; There has been a consolidation among healthcare facilities and purchasers of medical devices in the U.S. and foreign countries who prefer to limit the number of suppliers from whom they purchase medical products, and these entities may decide to stop purchasing our products or demand discounts on our prices; There is economic pressure to contain healthcare costs in worldwide markets; and There are proposed and existing laws and regulations in domestic and international markets regulating pricing and profitability of companies in the healthcare industry. While we believe that these changes could benefit the sale of lower cost technologies such as ours, these trends could lead to pressure to reduce prices for our products and could cause a decrease in the size of the market or a potential increase in competition that could adversely affect our revenue and profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If healthcare reimbursement policies place limits on which providers may receive payment for imaging services or substantially reduce reimbursement amounts or coverage for specific procedures, we may experience limited market acceptance of our products. Market acceptance of our products depends in part on the extent to which our customers receive reimbursement for the use of our products from third party payers such as Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurers (and equivalent third party payers in foreign countries). Presently, payment policies for physician-performed diagnostic imaging are fairly unrestricted in the U.S. The continuing efforts of governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare through various means could, however, result in more restricted payment policies for diagnostic imaging. Additionally, traditional providers of imaging examinations in the U.S. have a professional and financial interest in retaining their status as the principal providers of imaging services. These providers have sought changes to the reimbursement policies covering the provision of imaging services, including ultrasound imaging, so as to prevent potential new users from receiving payment for ultrasound and other imaging services. If any of these various groups’ efforts resulted in action by Congress, regulatory bodies or commercial insurers to place significant restrictions on the provision of imaging services or the requirements necessary to provide such services, market acceptance of our products could be limited. Similar events could occur in the foreign markets in which we sell our products. 14 As an example, in March 2005, an independent federal advisory group, the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, recommended that the U.S. Congress direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to set standards for providers wishing to receive reimbursement from the Medicare program for diagnostic imaging services. To date the U.S. Congress has not taken such action. However, the possibility that it could do so in the future remains. Additionally, some commercial insurers have implemented standards programs as a means of controlling utilization of imaging services. For example, Highmark Blue Cross Blue Shield, a commercial insurer operating in Pennsylvania, has recently required that providers meet specific requirements in order to be privileged to provide imaging services to its subscribers in 29 counties in western Pennsylvania. Oxford Health Plans includes many ultrasound services in a radiology capitation program that prevents the majority of the physicians in its network who are outside of the capitation contract from receiving reimbursement for those services. Proliferation of policies similar to these has the potential to limit acceptance of our products in office markets. Third party payers may also attempt to reduce healthcare costs by making across-the-board reductions in the payment amount for imaging examinations or eliminating payment altogether for particular types of imaging examinations. As an example, a Medicare payment policy covering physician services effective January 2006 will institute a multiple procedure payment reduction for a select number of ultrasound services when performed in a single session. Payment for the technical component of second and subsequent services performed in the same session on contiguous body parts will be cut by 25% in 2006 and 50% in 2007. In this particular case, the list of procedures covered under this new policy is so small that it is likely to have a negligible impact on total payments to our typical customer. However, a broadening of this policy to include additional procedures or the adoption of this type of policy by commercial payers could dampen demand for our products where those purchases are discretionary. As a part of the Budget Reconciliation Act of 2005, which was signed into law by the President of the United States on February 8, 2006, Congress made adjustments to the Medicare payment methodology for imaging services. The new provision, which is effective January 1, 2007, requires that amounts physicians receive under the Medicare physician’s fee schedule for technical component diagnostic imaging services provided in the physician office or freestanding imaging center will be reduced to the amount received by hospital outpatient departments for that same service in all instances in which the payment under the physician’s fee schedule would otherwise be higher. In the case of diagnostic ultrasound, payments for non-invasive vascular procedures, ultrasound guidance procedures, limited pelvic ultrasounds and color flow velocity mapping are reduced by varying amounts ranging from 12% to 72%. We expect that there will be significant efforts in 2006 to restore the payment reductions instituted under the Budget Reconciliation Act by manufacturers of imaging equipment as well as by professional medical societies whose physician members are affected by these reductions. Should this provision remain in place, however, it has the potential to dampen demand for our products in new office-based markets that rely upon the affected procedures to produce revenue necessary to justify the purchase of ultrasound equipment. We do not expect that these reductions will diminish demand for our products in existing markets where clinical practice patterns are already well established. In markets in which the use of ultrasound is an emerging standard of care, this provision may dampen demand for ultrasound equipment. In response to rising healthcare costs and the perception that new technologies are a significant contributing factor to the growth in healthcare costs, third party payers are demanding ever higher levels of evidence of clinical efficacy and cost effectiveness in order to provide coverage for new procedures. Third party payers, both governmental and private, are calling for increasing levels of evidence of clinical efficacy and cost effectiveness as a prerequisite to granting coverage for new technologies and devices and new applications of existing technologies. Thus, to the extent that the use of current or future products that we may develop is not described by existing Current Procedural Terminology codes or is not covered under existing coverage policies, there is a risk that reimbursement for these applications may not be attained at all or within a reasonable timeframe. For example, carotid intima media thickness measurement, which is an application of ultrasound performed by our SonoCalc IMT software, is not currently a part of any insurance company’s standard benefits package. 15 Existing or potential intellectual property claims and litigation may divert our resources and subject us to significant liability for damages, substantial litigation expense and the loss of our proprietary rights. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation. In addition, others may initiate patent litigation against us. We may become subject to interference proceedings conducted in patent and trademark offices to determine the priority of inventions. There are numerous issued and pending patents in the ultrasound field. The validity and breadth of medical technology patents may involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles may remain unresolved. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to result in issued patents and are maintained in confidence by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office while pending, there may be pending applications of which we are unaware, which may later result in issued patents that our products may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that one or more of our products may infringe. Litigation may be necessary to: assert or defend against claims of infringement; enforce our issued and licensed patents; protect our trade secrets or know-how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. We may become involved in the defense and prosecution, if necessary, of intellectual property suits, patent interferences, opposition proceedings and other administrative proceedings. For example, on July 24, 2001, Neutrino filed a complaint against us in U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas, Houston Division, alleging infringement of the ‘021 patent by SonoSite as a result of our use, sale and manufacture of the SonoSite 180, SonoSite 180PLUS, SonoHeart and SonoHeart Plus devices. Subsequently, the SonoHeart ELITE, iLook, TITAN and MicroMaxx systems were also added to the lawsuit. The complaint asserts claims for preliminary and permanent injunctive relief enjoining all alleged acts of infringement, compensatory and enhanced damages, attorney’s fees and costs, and pre- and post-judgment interest. On August 14, 2001, we filed an answer asserting affirmative defenses of non-infringement and patent invalidity, and included a counterclaim seeking a declaratory judgment of non-infringement and invalidity regarding Neutrino’s patent. On October 4, 2001, the court denied a request by Neutrino for preliminary injunctive relief to prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products pending the ultimate disposition of the litigation. On February 20, 2002, in what is known as a “Markman” hearing, the parties presented their arguments regarding the proper construction of Neutrino’s patent claims. On August 20, 2003, the U.S. District Court in the Southern District of Texas issued a decision interpreting certain terms used in the ‘021 patent. This decision does not discuss whether the patent is valid or whether the patent would apply to any of our products. In the order, the court, in resolving disputed terms in the Markman hearing, adopted our construction of the term “a portable body designed to be hand held”, and adopted Neutrino’s construction of the terms “the moveably connected transducer mounting assembly” and “ultrasound emitter”. The court denied our motion for summary judgment. We subsequently filed a new summary judgment motion using the court’s construction of the claim language that the ‘021 patent is invalid based on prior art. Neutrino filed a summary judgment motion based on its allegations of infringement. On September 30, 2004, the Texas court issued its rulings on the summary judgment motions. First, the court denied our motion for summary judgment based on invalidity, finding that there are issues of fact in dispute that must be resolved by a jury at trial. Second, the court granted Neutrino’s motion for summary judgment of infringement, finding that the SonoSite products infringe the ‘021 patent as the court has construed the claims in the Markman hearing. As a result, the court ordered us and Neutrino to enter into mediation, which was required to be completed by January 31, 2005. Mediation was unsuccessful. The parties have completed pretrial motions, discovery, depositions and preparation of expert reports and are awaiting the judge’s rulings on a number of the pending pretrial motions. We expect that the judge will set a trial date after he rules on those motions. Neutrino also filed suit in the Middle District of Florida on August 19, 2003 against a former SonoSite distributor alleging that the sale of our products by such distributor infringes the ‘021 patent. SonoSite assumed the defense of the distributor in accordance with our contractual obligations under the distribution agreement. In December 2004, Neutrino agreed to dismissal of all claims in this suit in return for SonoSite’s consent to Neutrino’s filing of a Second Amended Complaint in the Texas proceeding to add the SonoSite TITAN, SonoHeart ELITE and iLook systems to the Texas suit. Neutrino had also previously filed a similar suit in the Middle District 16 of Tennessee against another medical device distributor for selling a SonoSite product. The Tennessee case was dismissed based on a final judgment and permanent injunction filed a month after the case was filed. The Florida action and the Tennessee judgment have no effect on the Texas proceedings. We believe that we have good and sufficient defenses to the claims of patent infringement asserted against us by Neutrino and we are vigorously defending ourselves in this matter. If we are not successful in our defense of these claims, we could be forced to pay damages related to past product sales, modify or discontinue selling our products or may enter into royalty or licensing agreements for future product sales, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Sales of the allegedly infringing products represented the majority of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. We have not accrued any amounts for potential losses related to the Neutrino matter. Because of uncertainties related to the potential outcome and any range of loss on this matter, management is unable to make a reasonable estimate of the liability that could result from an unfavorable outcome. As additional information becomes available, we will assess the potential liability related to this matter. We will record accruals for losses if and when we determine the negative outcome of such matters to be probable and reasonably estimable. Our estimates regarding such losses could differ from actual results. Revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flow. Our involvement in intellectual property claims and litigation could: divert existing management, scientific and financial resources; subject us to significant liabilities; allow our competitors to market competitive products without obtaining a license from us; cause product shipment delays and lost sales; require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all; or force us to modify or discontinue selling our products, or to develop new products. Our success depends on new product development. Because substantially all of our revenue comes from the sale of HCU systems and related products, our financial performance will depend upon market acceptance of, and our ability to deliver and support, new products. We have a continuing research and development program designed to develop new products and improve existing products. The life cycles of our products are difficult to estimate and can be significantly affected by technological changes that are difficult to predict. Factors which could cause delays in our product development schedules or even cancellation of our projects to produce and market these products include: research and development delays; competitors producing competing products; other products using new technologies emerge; or industry or regulatory standards exceeding our products’ specifications. If we fail to enhance our existing products or develop and market new products, our products will become obsolete and we will be unable to compete. Our operations are subject to currency fluctuation and other risks associated with doing business outside the United States. The percentage of our revenue originating outside the U.S. equaled 46%, 47% and 38% for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. Total sales for the year ended December 31, 2005 denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars (“USDs”) were $35.1 million, or 24% of total consolidated revenues. Our revenue from international sales may be adversely affected by any of the following risks: currency rate fluctuations; adverse political or economic conditions; 17 reduced protection for intellectual property rights; difficulty managing and overseeing international employees from the U.S.; difficulty enforcing company policies and internal controls in international operations; longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in receivables collection; localizing products for foreign markets; and compliance with export laws, including license requirements, trade restrictions and tariff increases. As of December 31, 2005, 49% of our outstanding accounts receivable balance was from international customers, of which 50%, or $10.7 million, was denominated in a currency other than USDs. We regularly review our receivable positions in foreign countries for any indication that collection may be at risk. We have used and may continue to use forward foreign exchange contracts and other instruments to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations from intercompany receivable balances denominated in foreign currencies, and we may not be able to reduce this exposure successfully. Accordingly, we may experience economic loss and a negative impact on our results of operations and equity as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our reliance on a single manufacturing facility may impair our ability to respond to natural disasters or other unforeseen catastrophic events. Our manufacturing facilities are located in two buildings in Bothell, Washington, in close proximity to each other. Despite precautions taken by us, a natural disaster such as an earthquake or other unanticipated catastrophic events at this location could significantly impair our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business. Our facilities and certain manufacturing equipment would be difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. Such catastrophic events may also destroy any inventory of product or components. While we carry insurance for natural disasters and business interruption for our Bothell facilities, the occurrence of such an event could result in losses that exceed the amount of our insurance coverage, which would impair our financial results. We, or our independent registered public accounting firm, may determine that we have material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We dedicated a significant amount of time and resources to ensure compliance with this legislation for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 and will continue to do so for future fiscal periods. We may encounter problems or delays in completing the review and evaluation, the implementation of improvements and the receipt of a positive attestation, or any attestation at all, by our independent auditors. Additionally, management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting may identify deficiencies that need to be addressed in our internal controls over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. Should we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine in future fiscal periods that we have material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, our results of operations or financial condition may be materially adversely affected and the price of our common stock may decline. We have a history of losses and we may incur losses in the future. We have incurred net losses in each fiscal year since we commenced operations, with the exception of $5.4 million and $23.0 million of net income reported during the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $59.0 million. We may be unable to sustain or increase future profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Although we expect to achieve profitability in future periods, we may incur losses if we cannot increase or sustain our revenue. We expect that our operating expenses will increase in the foreseeable future as we expand our sales and marketing infrastructure, our administrative support, our product development activities and our product offerings, including new products incorporating our third generation technology. Our expansion efforts, to be successful, may require more funding than we currently anticipate. 18 Accordingly, we will need to generate significant additional revenue in the future before we will be able to sustain or increase profitability. If we cannot generate such revenue, we may not be profitable. If we fail to achieve sustained profitability, the market price for our common stock will likely fall. If our suppliers, including our single-source suppliers, fail to supply us with the components that we need to manufacture our products on a timely basis, we could experience production delays, cost increases and lost sales. We depend on suppliers, including some single-source suppliers, to provide highly specialized parts, such as custom-designed integrated circuits, cable assemblies and transducer components. We also depend on single-source suppliers to provide other components, such as image displays, batteries, capacitors and cables. We do not maintain significant inventories of certain components, and may experience an interruption of supply if a supplier is unable or unwilling to meet our time, quantity and quality requirements. There are relatively few alternative sources of supply for some of these components. An increase in demand for some parts by other companies could also interrupt our supply of components. We have in the past experienced supply problems in timeliness and quality, but to date these problems have not resulted in lost sales or lower demand. Nevertheless, if we experience an interruption of supply or are required to switch suppliers, the manufacture and delivery of our products could be interrupted, our manufacturing costs could substantially increase and we could lose substantial amounts of product sales. In addition, our circuit boards are produced by one of the world’s largest electronic manufacturing services suppliers who produce the boards in their Thailand manufacturing facility. If we experience delays in the receipt or deterioration in product yields of these components, we may experience delays in manufacturing or an increase in costs resulting in lost sales or a deterioration in gross margin. A failure to manage our growth could impair our ability to achieve our business objectives. We have experienced rapid growth since our inception as a stand-alone company in 1998. Our revenue increased to $147.5 million in 2005 from $115.8 million in 2004 and $84.8 million in 2003. We expect continued significant growth as we continue to develop, manufacture, market and sell our products. Our growth could strain our existing management, operational and financial resources. In order to manage our growth effectively, we will need to expand our manufacturing and quality assurance staff, our sales staff and our international support staff. In addition, we will need to improve the productivity and efficiency of our existing operational, financial and management resources and information systems. Any problems in successfully completing this upgrade may impact our operations and perhaps our financial results. We may be unable to hire and retain the personnel necessary to operate and expand our business. We also may be unable to increase the productivity and efficiency of our existing resources. If we fail to timely improve or augment our existing resources in response to our growth, we may be unable to effectively manage our business and achieve our objectives. Our consolidated effective income tax rate will fluctuate dependent upon the mix of our U.S. operations and our international operations. Additionally, utilization of our deferred tax assets may be limited and is dependent on future taxable income. In the fourth quarter of 2004, deferred tax assets relating to our U.S. operations were recognized on our balance sheet resulting in a non-recurring income tax benefit. Prior to this time, we provided a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. The deferred tax assets primarily represent the income tax benefit of U.S. NOLs we have incurred since inception. As required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” (“SFAS 109”), we did not recognize any tax assets on our balance sheet until it was “more likely than not” that the tax assets related to our U.S. operations would be realized on future tax returns. Based upon a review of historical operating performance through 2005, and our expectation that we will generate U.S. profitability for the foreseeable future, we continue to believe it is more likely than not that the U.S. deferred tax assets will be fully realized. We have not reduced our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets resulting from our international operations because they have not demonstrated sustainable profitability. Until it is more likely than not that the tax assets related to our international operations can be realized on future tax returns, the tax benefit of any accumulated losses generated by our international operations 19 will not be available to offset any income tax expense recorded for our U.S. operations. Therefore, our consolidated effective income tax rate may fluctuate if our U.S. operations continue to generate profits and our international operations generate profits that do not exceed accumulated losses. We will re-evaluate our ability to utilize our NOL and tax credit carryforwards in future periods and, in compliance with SFAS 109, record any resulting adjustments that may be required to deferred income tax expense. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 contains provisions under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code that limit the federal NOL carryforwards that may be used in any given year in the event of specified occurrences, including significant ownership changes. If these specified events occur, we may lose some or all of the tax benefits of these carryforwards. In addition, we will reduce the deferred income tax asset for the benefits of NOL and tax credit carryforwards actually used in future quarters. Therefore, if our U.S. operations continue to generate profits, we will record the related income tax expense for financial reporting purposes based on a blended federal and state rate applied to U.S. income. While this tax expense will reduce net income, no cash will be paid for income taxes, other than required alternative minimum tax and state tax payments, until the NOL and tax credits have been fully utilized. If in the future we determine, based on our assessment of both positive and negative evidence and objective and subjective evidence, which takes into consideration our forecasted taxable income, that it is more likely than not that we will not realize all or a portion of the U.S. deferred tax assets, we will increase the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets which would result in a charge to income tax expense. A full valuation allowance has been recorded for foreign deferred tax assets based on evaluation of the weight of all positive and negative evidence, including consideration of our transfer pricing methodologies which target arms-length profitability at our foreign subsidiaries. Our distributors may be unwilling or unable to devote sufficient resources to market and sell our products, which could delay or reduce market acceptance and sales of our products. We currently depend on distributors to help promote market acceptance and demand for our products in countries in which we do not have a direct sales force and in certain U.S. markets. Distributors that are in the business of distributing other medical products may not devote the resources and support required to generate awareness of our products and grow or maintain product sales. If these distributors are unwilling or unable to market and sell our products, we could experience delayed or reduced market acceptance and sales of our products. In addition, if our foreign distributors fail to pay us, or fail to pay us in a timely manner, for the products they have purchased, it may be difficult to recover such monies in a foreign court or proceeding, thereby resulting in the write-off of amounts owed to us. In addition, disagreements with our distributors or nonperformance by distributors could lead to costly and time-consuming litigation or arbitration and disrupt distribution channels for a period of time and require us to reestablish a distribution channel. For example, in May 2005, we arbitrated a dispute with our former distributor in the veterinary market in which the arbitration panel unanimously found in our favor. We recently appointed a new distributor for the U.S. veterinary market, Aloka Co. Ltd. The loss of key employees could impair our ability to achieve our business objectives. Our success depends heavily on our ability to retain the services of certain key employees. Competition among medical device companies for qualified employees is intense. We may fail to retain these key employees, and we may fail to attract qualified replacements if they do leave. We do not maintain key-person insurance on any of our employees. We do not have employment agreements with any of our employees, except for certain members of senior management and employees in certain countries outside the U.S. The loss of any of our key employees could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our product development or business objectives. If we, or our suppliers, fail to comply with U.S. and foreign governmental regulations applicable to our products and manufacturing practices, we could experience product introduction delays, production delays, cost increases and lost sales. Our products, our manufacturing activities and the manufacturing activities of our third-party medical device manufacturers are subject to extensive regulation by a number of governmental agencies, including the FDA and comparable international agencies. Our third-party manufacturers and we are or will be required to: 20 obtain prior clearance or approval from these agencies before we can market and sell our products; undergo rigorous inspections by domestic and international agencies; and satisfy content requirements for all of our sales and promotional materials. The manufacture and sale of our products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities, principally the FDA, as well as several other state and foreign agencies. The FDA requires that we obtain a pre-market notification clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug & Cosmetic Act prior to introducing our products to the market. By granting 510(k) clearance, the FDA indicates agreement with an applicant’s determination that the product for which clearance has been sought is substantially equivalent to medical devices that were on the market prior to 1976 or have subsequently received clearance. The process of obtaining 510(k) clearance typically takes approximately two to three months, but it can take significantly longer. To date, all of our products have received 510(k) clearance. We are also subject to regulation in each of the foreign countries in which we sell products. Many of the regulations applicable to our products are similar to those of the FDA. Some foreign regulatory agencies require similar pre-market clearance or registration before our products can be marketed or offered for sale in their countries. Such foreign regulatory approvals may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA clearance and the requirements may differ significantly. The national health or social security organizations of certain countries may additionally require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed in those countries. We cannot be assured that such clearances will be obtained. The processes for obtaining regulatory approval can be lengthy and expensive, and the results are unpredictable. If we are unable to obtain clearances or approvals needed to market existing or new products, or obtain such clearances or approvals in a timely manner, it could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Moreover, clearances and approvals, if granted, may limit the uses for which a product may be marketed, which could reduce or eliminate the commercial benefit of manufacturing any such product. After a device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, will require a new 510(k) clearance or could require pre-market approval. The FDA requires each manufacturer to make this determination initially, but the FDA can review any such decision and can disagree with a manufacturer’s determination. If the FDA disagrees with a manufacturer’s determination, the FDA can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval is obtained. We have modified aspects of some of our devices since receiving regulatory clearance. Some of those modifications we believe are not significant, and therefore, new 510(k) clearances or pre-market approvals are not required. Other modifications we believe are significant and we have obtained new 510(k) clearances from the FDA for these modifications. In the future, we may make additional modifications to our products after they have received FDA clearance or approval, and in appropriate circumstances, determine that new clearance or approval is unnecessary. However, the FDA may disagree with our determination and if the FDA requires us to seek 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval for any modifications to a previously cleared product, we may be required to cease marketing or recall the modified device until we obtain the required clearance or approval. Under these circumstances, we may also be subject to significant regulatory fines or other penalties. Every U.S. company that manufactures or assembles medical devices is required to register with the FDA and to adhere to certain quality system requirements which regulate the manufacture of medical devices, prescribe record keeping procedures and provide for the routine inspection of facilities for compliance with such regulations. The FDA also has broad regulatory powers in the areas of clinical testing, marketing and advertising of medical devices. After a medical device is placed on the market, numerous FDA regulatory requirements apply, including, but not limited to, the following: Quality System regulation, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; Establishment Registration, which requires establishments involved in the production and distribution of medical devices intended for commercial distribution in the U.S. to register with the FDA; 21 Medical Device Listing, which requires manufacturers to list the devices they have in commercial distribution with the FDA; Labeling regulations, which prohibit “misbranded” devices from entering the market, as well as prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or “off-label” uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and Medical Device Reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. In addition, we are subject to regulations in each of the foreign countries in which we sell products. Currently, our products bear a CE Mark, which indicates that our products comply with the requirements of the applicable European Union Medical Device Directive. Medical devices properly bearing the CE marking may be commercially distributed throughout the European Union. We have received certification from the British Standards Institute for conformity with certain quality system standards allowing us to place the CE mark on our product lines. The ISO quality system has been developed by the International Organization for Standardization to ensure that companies are aware of the standards of quality to which their products will be held worldwide. While no additional pre-market approvals in individual European Union countries are required prior to marketing a device bearing the CE marking, practical complications with respect to marketing introduction may occur. For example, differences among countries have arisen with regard to labeling requirements. We may not be successful in maintaining certification requirements necessary for distribution of our products in the European Union and failure to maintain the CE marking will preclude us from selling our products there. To ensure that manufacturers adhere to good manufacturing practices, medical device manufacturers are routinely subject to periodic inspections by the FDA and may be inspected by foreign regulatory agencies from countries in which we do business. In addition, the British Standards Institute performs periodic assessments of our manufacturing processes. Compliance with the regulations of various agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, may require us to incur substantial costs and may delay or prevent the introduction of new or improved products. Although to date these actions by regulatory bodies have not required us to incur substantial costs or delay product shipments, we expect to experience further inspections and incur additional costs as a result of governmental regulation. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action, which may include one or more of the following actions: Placing the company under observation and re-inspecting the facilities; Issuing a warning letter apprising the company of violative conduct; Issuing fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; Mandating a recall or seizure of our products; Detaining or banning our products; Enforcing operating restrictions, partial suspension or a total shutdown of production; Refusing our request for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of new product versions; Revoking 510(k) clearance or pre-market approvals previously granted; and Assessing civil or criminal penalties against the company, its officers, or its employees. Our third-party medical device manufacturers may also be subject to the same sanctions if they fail to comply with the laws and regulations and, as a result, may fail to supply us with components required to manufacture our products. If we are unable to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to compete effectively. Much of our value arises out of our proprietary technology and intellectual property for the design, manufacture and use of point-of-care ultrasound imaging systems. Our success and ability to compete effectively depend on our ability to protect our proprietary information. We rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws to protect our proprietary technology and limit the ability of others to compete with us using the same or similar technology. 22 We currently hold 40 patents relating to our technology. A number of other patents are pending in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. Additionally, we have a license from ATL to use certain ATL technology and ATL technological developments in our hand-carried products. This license was exclusive through April 5, 2003, and became nonexclusive after that date. We also enter into confidentiality and invention ownership agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and generally control access to, and the distribution of, our product designs, documentation and other proprietary information, as well as the designs, documentation and other information that we license from others. Our efforts afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights to the extent necessary to sustain any competitive advantage we may have. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, we may experience: unauthorized use of our technology by competitors; independent development of the same or similar technology by a competitor, coupled with a lack of enforceable patents on our part; failure of our pending patent applications to result in issued patents; successful interference actions to our patents, successful patent infringement lawsuits or successful oppositions to our patents and patent applications; unauthorized disclosure or use of our proprietary information by former employees or affiliates; and failure by our commercial partners to comply with their obligations to share technology or use our technology in a limited manner. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property will be difficult and may be cost-prohibitive. We may fail to prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. If we cannot prevent other companies from using our proprietary technology or if our patents are found invalid or otherwise unenforceable, we may be unable to compete effectively against other manufacturers of ultrasound systems, which could decrease our market share. Our lack of long-term customer purchase commitments and our limited order backlog make it difficult to predict sales and plan manufacturing requirements, which can lead to lower revenue, higher expense and reduced gross margin. We do not generally have long-term or volume purchase commitments with our customers, who typically order products on a purchase order basis. In limited circumstances, customer orders may be cancelled, changed or delayed on short notice. Lack of significant order backlog makes it difficult for us to forecast future sales with certainty. Varying sales cycles with our customers make it difficult to accurately forecast component and product requirements. These factors expose us to a number of risks: If we overestimate our requirements, we may be obligated to purchase more components or third-party products than is required; If we underestimate our requirements, our third-party manufacturers and suppliers may have an inadequate product or product component inventory, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and lower revenue; We may also experience shortages of product components from time to time, which also could delay the manufacturing of our products; and Over or under production can lead to higher expense, lower than anticipated revenue, and reduced gross margin. Effective January 1, 2006, we will be required to account for stock-based awards to employees as a compensation expense that will significantly reduce our net income and earnings per share. We currently account for stock-based awards to employees using the intrinsic value method in accordance with Accounting Principles Bulletin No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees” (“APB 25”). The notes to our consolidated financial statements, under the heading “Stock-based compensation,” reflects the impact during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 on our net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share had we determined compensation cost for our stock-based compensation consistent with the method prescribed in of SFAS 23 No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” (“SFAS 123”). Recent accounting pronouncement SFAS No. 123R (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS 123R”) will require us to record compensation expense for stock-based awards to employees in our statement of operations beginning in the first quarter of 2006. This pronouncement will require us to expense the portion of outstanding awards for which the requisite service has not been rendered as of January 1, 2006 under our existing plans. Based upon the structure of our employee stock purchase plan (“ESPP”), we will be required to record compensation expense for financial statement purposes in connection with the rights to purchase our stock to employees under the ESPP. The recording of expenses under SFAS 123 will significantly reduce our net income and earnings per share. Our cash flow from operations may also be impacted by income tax benefits on stock options, which are required to be classified as cash provided by financing activities once we adopt SFAS 123R. If our stock price continues to be volatile, your shares may decline in value. The market price for our common stock, as well as for securities of emerging growth companies generally, has been volatile in the past and is likely to continue to be volatile. You may be unable to resell your shares at or above the price you paid due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: the difference between quarterly operating results and those expected by investors or securities analysts; changes in earnings estimates by analysts; announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors; our involvement in intellectual property claims or litigation; changes in the structure of healthcare financing and payment systems; general conditions in the medical industry or global economy; a lack of liquidity in the market for our stock; and a significant sale or sales of our common stock by one or more of our shareholders. Product liability and other claims and product field actions could increase our costs, delay or reduce our sales and damage our reputation, which could significantly impair our financial condition. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability, malpractice or warranty claims inherent in the sale and support of medical device products, including those based on claims that the use or failure of one of our products resulted in a misdiagnosis or harm to a patient. Such claims may cause financial loss, damage our reputation by raising questions about our products’ safety and efficacy, and could interfere with our efforts to market our products. Although to date we have not been involved in any medical malpractice or product liability litigation, we may incur significant liability if such litigation were to occur. We may also face adverse publicity resulting from product field actions or regulatory proceedings brought against us. Although we currently maintain liability insurance in amounts we believe are commercially reasonable, any product liability we incur may exceed our insurance coverage. Liability insurance is expensive and may cease to be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A product liability or other claim or product field action not covered by our insurance or exceeding our coverage could significantly impair our financial condition. In addition, a product field action or a liability claim against us could significantly harm our reputation and make it more difficult to obtain the funding and commercial relationships necessary to maintain our business. Our efforts to integrate the business and technology of any future acquisition, even if successful, may result in significant costs or create significant disruptions that outweigh the benefits of any such acquisition. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire other companies, products or technologies. We may fail in our attempt to successfully integrate into our business the operations, technology, products, customers, suppliers and personnel of any such acquired business or technology. Even if integration is successful, any such acquisition may include costs for: integration of operations, including combining teams and processes in various functional areas; market acceptance and integration of new technology into our products; additional costs including fees and expenses of professionals involved in completing the integration process; and potential existing liabilities of any future acquisition target. 24 Additionally, our efforts to consummate an acquisition or to successfully integrate any such acquisition could place a significant burden on our management and internal resources and disrupt our business. If we fail in our attempts to integrate any acquired business or technology, or if the costs and burdens of such acquisition or integration outweigh the benefits of such acquisition, our financial resources or financial results could be impaired. Our future capital-raising activities or acquisition of businesses or assets could involve the issuance of equity securities, which would dilute your investment and could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. To meet our long-term funding requirements, we may sell securities in the public or private equity or debt markets if and when conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. Furthermore, we may enter into financing transactions at prices that represent a substantial discount to market price. In addition, we may issue a significant amount of our securities in connection with our purchase of, or strategic investment in, other businesses or assets. Raising funds or paying for acquisitions through the issuance of equity securities will dilute the ownership of our existing shareholders. A negative reaction by investors and securities analysts to any sale or issuance of our equity securities could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Additionally, in April 2005 our shareholders approved a new employee stock incentive plan totaling 1,300,000 shares and a new ESPP totaling 1,000,000 shares, which will further dilute the ownership of our existing shareholders. The concentrated ownership of our common stock could delay or prevent a change of control, which could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2005, our executive officers, directors and affiliated entities together beneficially owned 5.9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Based on currently available information, eleven other shareholders owned in the aggregate 50.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Among these shareholders, Kopp Investment Advisors LLC owned 8.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and Merrill Lynch Investment Managers, Inc. owned 5.5% . As a result, these shareholders or any other concentrated owner may be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, matters relating to the attraction and retention of employees, such as stock option plans, and approval of significant corporate transactions that could include certain matters relating to future financing arrangements and unsolicited tender offers. This concentration of ownership may delay, deter or prevent a third party from acquiring control over us at a premium over the then-current market price of our common stock, which could result in a decline in our stock price. The termination or other loss of our license to use certain ATL technology would significantly impair our ability to manufacture, market and sell our products. We license certain technology from ATL that is incorporated into our single technology platform, and we use this ATL technology in all of our HCU imaging systems. Virtually all of our revenue is attributable to products incorporating this ATL technology. ATL may terminate our license in the event of an uncured material default by us in our obligations under the license agreement. Although many key aspects of our technology platform, including the high level of miniaturization that allows us to manufacture our systems, are independently owned by us under the terms of our spin-off from ATL, the termination or other loss of our license to use ATL technology would significantly impair our ability to manufacture, market and sell our products. If this license is terminated, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to maintain our business. Our restated articles of incorporation, our bylaws, Washington law and some of our agreements contain provisions that could discourage a takeover and prevent shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares. There are provisions in our restated articles of incorporation, our bylaws and Washington law that make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. 25 Additionally, our acquisition may be made more difficult or expensive by the following: change of control provisions in our license agreement with ATL, which require us to pay ATL $75 million if, at any time through April 6, 2006, any single person or entity engaged in the medical diagnostic imaging business, other than through the sale or manufacture of our products, obtains, directly or indirectly, voting control of a majority of our common stock or the power to elect our entire board of directors; acceleration provisions in benefit plans and change-in-control agreements with our employees; and our shareholder rights plan, which is designed to dilute a hostile acquiror’s interest so that the acquisition becomes prohibitively expensive. Under our rights plan, each of our shareholders has one share purchase right for each share of common stock held, with each right having an exercise price approximating our board of directors’ estimate of the long-term value of one share of our common stock. The rights are triggered if an acquiror acquires, or successfully makes a tender offer for, 20% or more of our outstanding common stock. In such event, each shareholder other than the acquiror would have the right to purchase, at the exercise price, a number of newly issued shares of our capital stock at a 50% discount. If the acquiror were to acquire 50% or more of our assets or earning power, each shareholder would have the right to purchase, at the exercise price, a number of shares of acquiror’s stock at a 50% discount. Our board of directors may redeem the rights at a nominal cost at any time before a person acquires 20% or more of our outstanding common stock, which allows board-approved transactions to proceed. In addition, our board of directors may exchange all or part of the rights (other than rights held by the acquiror) for such number of shares of our common stock equal in value to the exercise price. Such an exchange produces the desired dilution without actually requiring our shareholders to purchase shares. If we incur a tax liability in connection with our spin-off from ATL, we would be required to pay a potentially significant expense, which would diminish our financial resources. Our spin-off was treated by ATL as a tax-free spin-off under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. If ATL were to recognize taxable gain from the spin-off, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) could impose that liability on any member of the ATL consolidated group as constituted prior to the spin-off, including us. Generally, the IRS may assert that our spin-off from ATL is a taxable transaction until the expiration of the statute of limitations applicable to ATL with respect to the spin-off transaction. The expiration of the statute of limitations with respect to the spin-off transaction depends upon the actions and tax filings of ATL and the special rules applicable to spin-offs in general, which special rules could result in the extension of the general statute of limitations for an indefinite period of time. In the event of a tax liability, ATL has agreed to cover 85% of any such liability, unless the tax is imposed due to our actions solely or by ATL solely, in which case, we have agreed with ATL that the party who is solely at fault shall bear all of the tax liability. We are unaware of any actions that would result in a tax liability to us under the indemnity agreement regarding the spin-off transaction. We are aware that ATL was acquired in a transaction subsequent to the spin-off transaction, which could potentially result in the spin-off being treated as a taxable transaction, but which resulting tax liability in our view would be the sole responsibility of ATL pursuant to our agreement with ATL. ATL may refuse, however, to indemnify us for a tax liability arising out of the spin-off transaction or may argue that it did not cause the tax liability to be imposed. In such event, we may incur a significant expense for all or a portion of the taxes related to the spin-off. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS None. 