Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements Statements in this Annual Report which are not historical are “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements include: (1) statements made under Item 1, Business and Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, including, without limitation, statements with respect to internal growth plans, projected revenues, margin improvement, capital expenditures and adequacy of capital resources; (2) statements included or incorporated by reference in our future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and (3) information contained in written material, releases and oral statements issued by, or on behalf of, School Specialty including, without limitation, statements with respect to projected revenues, costs, earnings and earnings per share. Forward-looking statements also include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectation of School Specialty or its officers. Forward-looking statements include statements preceded by, followed by or that include forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “should,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “continues” or similar expressions. All forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report are based on information available to us as of the date hereof. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements that may be made by or on behalf of us, in this Annual Report or otherwise. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements identified above. Factors which may cause such a difference to occur include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth below. The agreements governing our debt contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business, could prohibit us from engaging in transactions we believe to be beneficial and could lead to the acceleration of our debt and/or an increased cost of capital. Our existing and future debt agreements impose and may impose operating and financial restrictions on our activities. These restrictions require us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios, and restrict our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • incur additional debt; • create liens; • make acquisitions; • redeem and/or prepay certain debt; • sell or dispose of a minority equity interest in any subsidiary or other assets; • make capital expenditures; • make certain investments; • enter new lines of business; • engage in consolidations, mergers and acquisitions; • repurchase or redeem capital stock; • guarantee obligations; • engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and • pay dividends and make other distributions. 16 Our credit facilities also require us to comply with certain financial ratios, including a maximum total leverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, and minimum interest coverage ratio, as well as minimum liquidity levels at the end of each month. These restrictions may hamper our ability to operate our business or could seriously harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, mergers and acquisitions, and other corporate opportunities. In the event that we fail to comply with the financial ratios or minimum liquidity levels contained in our credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay the amounts due. Also, should there be an event of default, or a need to obtain waivers following an event of default, we may be subject to higher borrowing costs and/or more restrictive covenants in future periods. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for a more detailed discussion of the Company’s projected compliance with these debt covenants. Our common stock is currently not listed on a stock exchange or traded on any of the over-the-counter (OTC) markets, and as a result our investors do not have a meaningful degree of liquidity. Our common stock is not currently listed on a stock exchange nor is it traded on any of the OTC markets. An investor may find it difficult or impossible to dispose of shares or obtain accurate information as to the market value of the common stock. Our bankruptcy proceedings, which improved our capital structure and short-term liquidity position, contemplated that we would refine and implement our strategy and business plan, based upon assumptions and analyses developed by us. If these assumptions and analyses prove to be incorrect, we may be unsuccessful in executing our strategy and business plan, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operation. Our bankruptcy proceedings, which improved our capital structure and short-term liquidity position, contemplated that we would refine and implement our strategy and business plan based upon assumptions and analyses developed by us in light of our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors that we considered appropriate under the circumstances. Whether actual future results and developments will be consistent with our expectations and assumptions depends on a number of factors, including but not limited to (i) our ability to obtain adequate liquidity and financing sources and establish an appropriate level of debt; (ii) our ability to restore customers’ confidence in our viability as a continuing entity and to attract and retain sufficient customers; (iii) our ability to retain key employees in those businesses that we intend to continue to emphasize; and (iv) the overall strength and stability of general economic conditions and, in particular, the school funding environment. The failure of any of these factors could materially adversely affect the successful execution of our strategy and business plan. In connection with our bankruptcy proceedings, we prepared projected financial information to demonstrate to the Bankruptcy Court the feasibility of our Reorganization Plan and our ability to continue operations upon emergence from bankruptcy. The projections reflect numerous assumptions concerning anticipated future performance and prevailing and anticipated market and economic conditions that were and continue to be beyond our control and that may not materialize. Further, the projections were limited by the information available to us as of the date of their preparation, which is subject to change. Accordingly, our actual financial condition and results of operations may differ, perhaps materially, from what we have anticipated. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the results or developments contemplated by the Reorganization Plan or our strategy and business plan will occur or, even if they do occur, that they will have the anticipated effects on us and our subsidiaries or our businesses or operations. The failure of any such results or developments to materialize as anticipated could materially adversely affect the successful execution of the transactions contemplated by the 17 Reorganization Plan or subsequent strategy and business plan. In addition, the accounting treatment required for our bankruptcy reorganization may have an impact on our results going forward. We are highly leveraged. As of April 27, 2013, we had $374 million of total debt, and as of June 12, 2013, immediately following the Effective Date, we had $173 million of total debt. This level of debt could adversely affect our operating flexibility and put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our credit agreements could have important consequences for investors, including the following: • we will have to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for debt service rather than for our operations; • we may not be able to obtain additional debt financing for future working capital, capital expenditures or other corporate purposes or may have to pay more for such financing; • the debt under our credit agreements is at a variable interest rates, making us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates; • we could be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions; • we will be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and • we may be disadvantaged compared to competitors with less leverage. We expect to service our debt primarily from cash flow from operations. Our ability to service our debt obligations thus depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We are not able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets where we operate and pressure from competitors. The cash flow we generate may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations. If we do not have sufficient capital, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets or borrow additional funds. We may not be able to take such actions on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, the terms of our existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting any of these refinancing alternatives. The bankruptcy filing has had a negative impact on our relationships with customers, which may negatively impact our business going forward. We have experienced reduced order volume since the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases. Although we have maintained relationships with many of our customers since our emergence from bankruptcy, we have experienced lower order volumes since the announcement of the Chapter 11 Cases. We believe that the bankruptcy negatively impacted many of our customers’ perceptions of our brand and financial stability. In particular, interest in our Projects by Design® services and orders related to furniture and school fixtures have declined since the announcement of the Chapter 11 Cases. We attribute this trend to customer uncertainty regarding whether the Company will remain solvent for the months or years that may be required to complete the design, building and renovation of schools. Additionally, as a result of the bankruptcy, we have experienced increased backorders associated with procuring product due to liquidity constraints. The negative perception of our financial condition that was created by the bankruptcy filing may also have an effect on the terms under which some customers are willing to continue to do business with us, and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The impact of this customer uncertainty as to the status of the Company cannot be accurately predicted or quantified. In order to compete successfully in our markets, we will need to restore customer confidence in our brand and our Company. We are engaging in efforts intended to improve and expand our relations with our customers. We have attempted to support our position with our key customers through direct and active contact with teachers, curriculum specialists and administrators. We may not be able to successfully improve our customer relationships so that our customers will do business with us as they 18 have in the past. The failure to increase sales volumes would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, the delay or cancellation of material orders from, or problems at, any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Our inability to obtain sufficient trade credit from our vendors or other sources in a timely manner and on reasonable terms could inhibit our growth and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our ability to pay for products is largely dependent upon the payment terms, or trade credit, that our principal vendors provide us. The payment terms are based on several factors, including (i) our recent operating results, financial position (including our level of indebtedness) and cash flows; (ii) our payment history with the vendor; (iii) the vendor’s credit granting policies (including any contractual restrictions to which it is subject), our creditworthiness (as determined by various entities) and general industry conditions; (iv) prevailing interest rates; and (v) the vendors’ ability to obtain credit insurance in respect of amounts that we owe. We expect to continue to rely on trade credit from our vendors to provide a significant amount of our working capital. If our vendors fail to provide us with sufficient trade credit in a timely manner, we may have to rely on other sources of financing, which may not be readily available or, if available, may not be on terms acceptable or favorable to us. Our recent bankruptcy is likely to have adversely affected our relationship with our vendors and may damage our vendors’ perception of our financial position. These factors, along with any other adverse changes in any of these factors, could increase the costs of financing our inventory, limit or eliminate our ability to obtain vendor financing and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Volatility and disruptions in the global economic environment including tightening in the credit markets could heighten the risk that we may not be able to obtain trade credit or alternative sources of financing, or that to the extent we can obtain it, the terms will be unfavorable. We are engaging in efforts intended to restore and improve our relations with our vendors. To the extent we are unable to do so, the loss of key vendors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, our historical financial information may not be indicative of our future financial performance. Our capital structure was significantly altered under the Reorganization Plan. Under fresh-start reporting rules that apply to us upon the effective date of the Reorganization Plan, our assets and liabilities have been adjusted to fair value and our accumulated deficit has been restated to zero. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations subsequent to the effective date of the Reorganization Plan will not be comparable to the financial condition and results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements. It is also possible that additional restructuring and related charges may be identified and recorded in future periods. Such charges could be material to our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Except as otherwise expressly stated in this Annual Report, the financial statements and other financial information contained herein do not reflect fresh start accounting adjustments. Our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited and other tax attributes may be reduced. The Company expects to generate a Federal net operating loss in fiscal 2014. However, in conjunction with matters that resulted in the Chapter 11 Cases and Reorganization Plan, the Company experienced a change in ownership under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. This could limit annual federal net operating loss utilization to an amount equal to the net equity value of our stock at the time of the ownership change multiplied by the federal long-term tax exempt rate. In addition, the Company’s Reorganization Plan is expected to result in a reduction of tax attributes, including net operating losses and tax attributes particularly related to goodwill and intangible assets, as a result of the cancellation of pre-bankruptcy indebtedness and obligations. The reduction of these tax attributes may result in increased tax expense in future years. 19 Our business depends upon the growth of the student population and school expenditures and can be adversely impacted by fixed or declining school budgets. Our growth strategy and profitability depend in part on growth in the student population and expenditures per student in preK-12 schools. The level of student enrollment is largely a function of demographics, while expenditures per student are affected by federal, state and local government budgets. In addition, the current macroeconomic weakness has resulted in significantly reduced school budgets. In school districts in states that primarily rely on local tax proceeds for funding, significant reductions in those proceeds for any reason can restrict district expenditures and impact our results of operations. Any significant and sustained decline in student enrollment and/or expenditures per student could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Because school budgets are fixed on a yearly basis, any shift by schools in expenditures during a given fiscal year to areas that are not part of our business, such as facility operating costs and employee related expenditures, could also materially affect our business. The negative global macroeconomic conditions could continue to impact the education funding provided by state and local governments. The weakened economic environment has placed increased pressure on state and local government budgets, which are the primary source of school funding. The global economy is currently suffering from the effects of the latest recession which has led to a decline in consumer and business spending and confidence. This has resulted in our customers delaying or cutting school expenditures as the recession creates state and local budget deficits and uncertainty about future economic funding by state and local governments. The federal stimulus funds that were provided by the federal government to school districts helped education funding in 2009 and 2010, but these federal funds have been fully distributed and many states have not been able to replace them due to declining state revenue. Significant and sustained declines in the per student funding levels provided for in state and local budgets, and delays or decreases in spending by our customers due to concerns about potential or actual declines in funding levels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A continued decline in school spending will impact our ability to maintain operating margins. We have seen a decline in our operating margin in recent years, primarily as a result of our revenue declines, which we believe are primarily related to the continued school spending cuts. The Company will continue to aggressively pursue further cost reductions if school spending continues to decline, but the Company does not intend to cut costs in areas that it believes could have a significant impact on future revenue growth. To the extent we are unable to identify additional cost reductions that can be made consistent with our strategy and the weakness in school spending persists, our operating margin may continue to decline. Additionally, spending declines can cause schools to consider purchasing lower priced products, which will lower the Company’s operating margins. Increasing use of web-based products could affect our printed supplemental materials business. The growth in web-based supplements could reduce the physical paper-based supplements the Company currently markets. While we continue to enhance our product lines with digital alternatives, it is possible that our paper-based products could be supplanted and/or replaced by online sources other than our own. Increased costs and other difficulties associated with the distribution of our products would adversely affect our results of operations. Higher than expected costs and other difficulties associated with the distribution of our products could affect our results of operations. To the extent we incur difficulties or higher-than-expected costs related to updating our distribution centers, such costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any disruption in our ability to service our customers may also impact our revenues or profits. 20 Moreover, as we update our distribution model or change the product mix of our distribution centers, we may encounter unforeseen costs or difficulties that may have an adverse impact on our financial performance. Our business is highly seasonal. Because most of our customers want their school supplies delivered before or shortly after the commencement of the school year, we record most of our revenues from June to October. During this period, we receive, ship and bill the majority of orders for our products so that schools and teachers receive their products by the start of each school year. To the extent we do not sell our products to schools during the peak shipping season, many of such sales opportunities will be lost and will not be available in subsequent quarters. Our inventory levels increase in April through June in anticipation of the peak shipping season. We usually earn more than 100% of our annual net income in the first two quarters of our fiscal year and operate at a net loss in our third and fourth fiscal quarters. This seasonality causes our operating results and operating cash flows to vary considerably from quarter to quarter within our fiscal years. If our key suppliers or service providers were unable or unwilling to provide the products and services we require, our business could be adversely affected. We depend upon a limited number of suppliers for some of our products, especially furniture and proprietary products. We also depend upon a limited number of service providers for the delivery of our products. If these suppliers or service providers are unable or unwilling to provide the products or services that we require or materially increase their costs (especially during our peak season of June through October), our ability to deliver our products on a timely and profitable basis could be impaired and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our agreements with our suppliers are terminable at any time or on short notice, with or without cause, and, we cannot assure that any or all of our relationships will not be terminated or that such relationships will continue as presently in effect. Our business is highly competitive. The market for supplemental educational products and equipment is highly competitive and fragmented. We estimate that over 3,000 companies market supplemental educational products and equipment to schools with preK-12 as a primary focus of their business. We also face competition from alternate channel marketers, including office supply superstores, office product contract stationers, and purchasing cooperatives that have not traditionally focused on marketing supplemental educational products and equipment. Our competitors impact the prices we are able to charge and we expect to continue to face pricing pressure from our competitors in the future, especially on our commodity-type products. These competitors are likely to continue to expand their product lines and interest in supplemental educational products and equipment. Some of these competitors have greater financial resources and buying power than we do. We believe that the supplemental educational products and equipment market will consolidate over the next several years, which could increase competition in both our markets. We also face increased competition and pricing pressure as a result of the accessibility of the internet. If any of our key personnel discontinue their role with us, our business could be adversely affected. Our business depends to a large extent on the abilities and continued efforts of our executive officers and senior management. Since March 2013, several of our key employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Administrative Officer and Chief Marketing Officer, have resigned. These departures could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if we are unable to attract and retain other key personnel and qualified employees, our business could be adversely affected. We do not intend to maintain key man life insurance covering any of our executive officers or other members of our management. 21 A failure to successfully implement our business strategy could materially and adversely affect our operations and growth opportunities. Our ability to achieve our business and financial objectives is subject to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, and we may not be successful in implementing our strategy. This includes limitations due to the inability to obtain financing and/or the restrictiveness of our debt covenants. In addition, the implementation of our strategy may not lead to improved operating results. We may decide to alter or discontinue aspects of our business strategy and may adopt alternative or additional strategies due to business or competitive factors or factors not currently expected, such as unforeseen costs and expenses or events beyond our control. Any failure to successfully implement our business strategy could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and growth opportunities. We face risks associated with our increasing emphasis on imported goods and private label products. Increases in the cost or a disruption in the flow of our imported goods may adversely impact our revenues and profits and have an adverse impact on our cash flows. Our business strategy includes an increased emphasis on offering private label products and sourcing quality merchandise directly from low-cost suppliers. As a result, we expect to rely more heavily on imported goods from China and other countries and we expect the sale of imported goods to continue to increase as a percentage of our total revenues. To the extent we rely more heavily on the sale of private label products, our potential exposure to product liability claims may increase. In addition, our reputation may become more closely tied to our private label products and may suffer to the extent our customers are not satisfied with the quality of such products. Private label products will also increase our risks associated with returns and inventory obsolescence. Our reliance on imported merchandise subjects us to a number of risks, including: (a) increased difficulties in ensuring quality control; (b) disruptions in the flow of imported goods due to factors such as raw material shortages, work stoppages, strikes, and political unrest in foreign countries; (c) problems with oceanic shipping, including shipping container shortages; (d) economic crises and international disputes; (e) increases in the cost of purchasing or shipping foreign merchandise resulting from a failure of the United States to maintain normal trade relations with China and the other countries we do business in; (f) import duties, import quotas, and other trade sanctions; and (g) increases in shipping rates imposed by the trans-Pacific shipping cartel. If imported merchandise becomes more expensive or unavailable, we may not be able to transition to alternative sources in time to meet our demands. A disruption in the flow of our imported merchandise or an increase in the cost of those goods due to these or other factors would significantly decrease our revenues and profits and have an adverse impact on our cash flows. Currency exchange rates may impact our financial condition and results of operations and may affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. To the extent we source merchandise from overseas manufacturers and sell products internationally, exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and ability to service our U.S. dollar-denominated debt. All of our debt is in U.S. dollars while a portion of our revenue is derived from imported products and international sales. Therefore, fluctuations in the exchange rate of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar could impact our costs and revenues. In addition, for the purposes of financial reporting, any change in the value of the foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar during a given financial reporting period would result in a foreign currency loss or gain. Consequently, our reported earnings could fluctuate as a result of foreign exchange translation and may not be comparable from period to period. It is difficult to forecast our revenue stream given the seasonal purchasing patterns of our customers and delays in passage of state budgets. The seasonal purchasing patterns of our customers, the fact that our customers typically purchase products on an as-needed basis, and the lack of visibility into education funding levels if state budgets are delayed make it difficult for us to accurately forecast our revenue stream, which may vary significantly from period to period. 22 Financial analysts and others that may seek to project our future performance face similar difficulties. The difficulty in accurately forecasting our revenue increases the likelihood that our financial results will differ materially from any projected financial results. Any shortfall in our financial results from our, or third-party, projected results could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock and our convertible subordinated debentures. We may have a material amount of intangible assets which are potentially subject to impairment. At April 27, 2013, intangible assets are expected to represent approximately 13% of our total assets on a pro forma basis using the application of fresh-start accounting. The Company is currently in the process of valuing its assets in conjunction with fresh-start accounting. Prospectively, the amount of goodwill and intangible assets may change based on the application of fresh-start accounting (except as otherwise expressly stated in this Annual Report, the financial information contained herein do not reflect fresh start accounting adjustments). We are required to evaluate whether our intangible assets have been impaired. As discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report, the Company recorded impairment charges of $4.7 million related to indefinite-lived intangible assets in the third quarter of fiscal 2013 and $21.0 million related to indefinite-lived intangible assets in the third quarter of fiscal 2012. The impairments were determined as part of the fair value assessment of these assets. We have a material amount of capitalized product development costs which might be written-down. We had capitalized product development costs of $28.2 million and $27.7 million at April 27, 2013 and April 28, 2012, respectively, related to internally developed products, which are amortized to expense over the lesser of five years or the product’s life cycle. Any changes in the estimated sales volume or life cycle of the underlying products could cause the currently capitalized costs or costs capitalized in the future to be impaired. Our operations are dependent on our information systems. We have integrated the operations of most of our divisions and subsidiaries, which operate on systems located at both our Greenville, Wisconsin, headquarters and our third-party hosted ERP system provider’s facilities. In addition, there are divisions running legacy systems hosted at their locations. All systems rely on continuous telecommunication connections to the main computers. If any of these connections becomes disrupted, or unavailable, for an extended period of time, the disruption could materially and adversely affect our business, operations and financial performance. Even though we have taken precautions to protect ourselves from unexpected events that could interrupt new and existing business operations and systems, we cannot be sure that fire, flood or other natural disasters would not disable our systems and/or prevent them from communicating between business segments. The occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on our intellectual property in the design and marketing of our products. We rely on certain trademarks, trade names and service names, along with licenses to use and exploit certain trademarks, trade names and service names (collectively, the “marks”) in the design and marketing of some of our products. We could lose our ability to use our brands if our marks were found to be generic or non-descriptive. While no single mark is material to our business, the termination of a number of these marks could have an adverse effect on our business. We also rely on certain copyrights, patents and licenses other than those described above, the termination of which could have an adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 