Item 1A. Risk Factors. - --------------------- The Company's business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below. This section does not describe all risks that may be applicable to the Company, the Company's industry, or the Company's business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material risk factors. Substantially all of the Company's operating activity is from the sale of military and other rugged footwear, the sale of specialized machinery and materials for the manufacture of this type of footwear and the rendering of technical assistance and other services to licensees for the manufacture of this type of footwear. The majority of revenues is from sales to the U. S. government, primarily the Defense Supply Center Philadelphia (DSCP), under contracts for the supply of boots used by the U. S. Armed Forces. The loss of this customer would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Bidding on U. S. government boot solicitations is open to any qualified U. S. manufacturer. Bidding on contracts is highly competitive. U. S. footwear manufacturers have been adversely affected by sales of footwear made in low labor cost countries. This has significantly affected the competition for contracts to supply boots to U. S. Armed Forces, which by law must be made in the U. S. Most boot contracts are for multi-year periods. Therefore, a bidder not receiving an award from a significant solicitation could be adversely affected up to five years. In addition, current boot contracts contain options for additional pairs that are exercisable at the sole discretion of the government. The Company's business may be adversely affected by periodic difficulties in obtaining raw materials and other items needed for the production of its -3- products, the effects of quality deviations in raw materials and fluctuations in prices of such materials. We rely on our manufacturing facility in Aguadilla, Puerto Rico and our warehousing center in Waynesville, North Carolina. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption at either of these facilities due to fire, hurricane, flood, terrorist attack or any other cause could impair our ability to meet deliveries and adequately supply our customers with products and adversely affect our operating results. Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international environmental and pollution laws, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal and labeling of, and human exposure to, hazardous and toxic materials. We could incur costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims, if we were to violate or become liable under any environmental laws. There can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations have not occurred in the past and will not occur in the future as a result of our inability to obtain permits, human error, equipment failure or other causes, and any such violations could harm our business and financial condition. Since the Company's first source of liquidity is cash from operations, a decrease in sales of the Company's products would reduce this source of liquidity and result in increased use of the bank line of credit. The bank line of credit of $7,500,000 will expire on December 31, 2006 and will then be subject to renewal at the discretion of the bank. Historically, the bank has always renewed the line of credit. Under conditions of substantial reduction in operations, with little basis for projecting a reversal of such reduction, it is possible that the bank would cancel or not renew the line of credit. Events that would cause a substantial reduction in operations include, but are not limited to, cancellation of existing government contracts or receiving government contracts that do not provide enough revenues to provide adequate liquidity. The Estate of James T. Emerson owns 57% of our stock. The Estate of James T. Emerson can direct our affairs and significantly influence the election or removal of our directors and the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. The interest of our principal stockholder may conflict with interests of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel who have experience both in defense contracting and small public companies. Competition for such personnel is strong in the footwear industry and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel we require. We expect to effectively compete in this area by offering competitive financial packages that include incentive-based compensation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. (None) - ------- ------------------------- 