Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, the occurrence of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. General. The results of our business operations are affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, and primarily depend on, among other things, the level of our net interest income, the market value of our assets and the supply of, and demand for, MBS in the market place. Our net interest income varies primarily as a result of changes in interest rates, the slope of the yield curve (i.e., the differential between long-term and short-term interest rates), borrowing costs (i.e., interest expense) and prepayment speeds on our MBS portfolio, the behavior of which involves various risks and uncertainties. Interest rates and prepayment speeds, as measured by the CPR, vary according to the type of investment, conditions in the financial markets, competition and other factors, none of which can be predicted with any certainty. Our operating results also depend upon our ability to effectively manage the risks associated with our business operations, including our interest rate and prepayment risks, while maintaining our qualification as a REIT. In addition, we face risks inherent in our other assets, comprised of an indirect 100% interest in a multi-family apartment property, non-Agency MBS rated below AAA and derivative financial instruments. Although these assets represent a small portion of our total assets, less than 1.0% at December 31, 2006, they have the potential of materially impacting our operating performance in future periods if such assets were to become impaired. An increase in our borrowing costs relative to the interest we receive on our MBS may adversely affect our profitability. In general, we generate income primarily based upon the spread (i.e., the difference) between the interest income we earn on our MBS portfolio, less net amortization of purchase premiums and discounts, and the interest expense we pay on our borrowings. We rely primarily on borrowings under repurchase agreements, typically with terms from one to 36 months, to finance the acquisition of MBS which have longer-term contractual maturities. Even though most of our MBS have interest rates that adjust over time based on short-term changes in corresponding interest rate indexes, the interest we pay on our borrowings may increase at a faster pace than the interest we earn on our MBS. If the interest expense on our borrowings increases relative to the interest income we earn on our MBS, our profitability may be adversely affected. • Changes in interest rates, cyclical or otherwise, may adversely affect our profitability. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including fiscal and monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political considerations, as well as other factors beyond our control. In general, we finance the acquisition of our MBS through borrowings in the form of repurchase agreements, which expose us to interest rate risk on the acquired assets. The cost of our borrowings is based on prevailing market interest rates. Because the term of our repurchase agreements typically ranges from one to 36 months at inception, the interest rates on our borrowings generally adjust more frequently (as new repurchase agreements are entered into upon the maturity of existing repurchase agreements) than the interest rates on our MBS. During a period of rising interest rates, our borrowing costs could increase at a faster pace than our interest earnings on the leveraged portion of our MBS portfolio, which could result in a decline in our net interest spread and net interest margin. The severity of any such decline would depend on our asset/liability composition at the time as well as the magnitude and duration of the interest rate increase. Further, an increase in short-term interest rates could also have a negative impact on the market value of our MBS portfolio. If any of these events happen, we could experience a decrease in net income or incur a net loss during these periods, which may negatively impact our distributions to stockholders. • Hybrid MBS have fixed interest rates for an initial period which may reduce our profitability if short-term interest rates increase. The ARMs collateralizing our MBS are primarily comprised of hybrids, which have interest rates that are fixed for an initial period (typically three to seven years) and, thereafter, generally adjust annually to an increment over a pre-determined interest rate index. Accordingly, during a period of rising interest rates, the cost of our borrowings would increase while the interest income we earn on our MBS portfolio would not increase with respect to our MBS collateralized with hybrid ARMs that were then in their fixed rate period. If this happens, we could experience a decrease in net income or incur a net loss during these periods, which may negatively impact our distributions to stockholders. 5 • A flat or inverted yield curve may adversely affect ARM-MBS prepayment rates and supply. Our net interest income varies primarily as a result of changes in interest rates as well as changes in interest rates across the yield curve. When the differential between short-term and long-term benchmark interest rates narrows, the yield curve is said to be “flattening.” We believe that when the yield curve is relatively flat, borrowers have an incentive to refinance into hybrid mortgages with longer initial fixed rate periods and fixed rate mortgages, causing our MBS to experience faster prepayments. In addition, a flatter yield curve generally leads to fixed-rate mortgage rates that are closer to the interest rates available on hybrid and adjustable-rate mortgages possibly decreasing the supply of ARM-MBS. At times, short-term interest rates may increase and exceed long-term interest rates, causing an inverted yield curve. When the yield curve is inverted, fixed-rate mortgage rates may approach or be lower than hybrid or adjustable-rate mortgage rates, further increasing ARM-MBS prepayments and further negatively impacting ARM-MBS supply. Increases in prepayments on our MBS portfolio cause our premium amortization to accelerate, lowering the yield on such assets. If this happens, we could experience a decrease in net income or incur a net loss during these periods, which may negatively impact our distributions to stockholders. • Interest rate caps on the ARMs collateralizing our MBS may adversely affect our profitability if short-term interest rates increase. The financial markets primarily determine the interest rates that we pay on our borrowings used to finance the acquisition of our MBS; however, the level of increase in interest rates on our ARM-MBS is typically limited by contract. The interim and lifetime interest rate caps on the ARMs collateralizing our MBS limit the amount by which the interest rates on such assets can adjust. Interim interest rate caps limit the amount interest rates on a particular ARM can adjust during any given year or period. Lifetime interest rate caps limit the amount interest rates can increase from inception through maturity of a particular ARM. Our borrowings are not subject to similar restrictions. Accordingly, in a sustained period of rising interest rates or a period in which interest rates rise rapidly, we could experience a decrease in net income or a net loss because the interest rates paid by us on our borrowings could increase without limitation (as new repurchase agreements are entered into upon the maturity of existing repurchase agreements) while increases in the interest rates earned on the ARMs collateralizing our MBS could be limited due to interim or lifetime interest rate caps. • Adjustments of interest rates on our borrowings may not be matched to interest rate indexes on our MBS. In general, the interest rates on our borrowings are based on LIBOR, while the interest rates on our ARM-MBS may be indexed to LIBOR or another index rate, such as the one-year CMT rate, MTA or COFI. Accordingly, any increase in LIBOR relative to one-year CMT rates, MTA or COFI will generally result in an increase in our borrowing costs that is not matched by a corresponding increase in the interest earnings on our ARM-MBS. Any such interest rate index mismatch could adversely affect our profitability, which may negatively impact distributions to our stockholders. Prepayment rates on the mortgage loans underlying our MBS may adversely affect our profitability. The MBS that we acquire are primarily secured by pools of ARMs on single-family residences. In general, the ARMs collateralizing our MBS may be prepaid at any time without penalty (other than certain MTA-indexed ARMs). Prepayments on our MBS result when homeowners/mortgagees satisfy (i.e., payoff the mortgage) upon selling or refinancing their mortgaged property. In addition, because our MBS are primarily Agency MBS, defaults and foreclosures on such guaranteed MBS typically have the same effect as prepayments. When we acquire a particular MBS, we anticipate that the underlying mortgage loans will prepay at a projected rate which provides us with an expected yield on such MBS. When homeowners/mortgagees prepay their mortgage loans faster than anticipated, it results in a faster prepayment rate on the related MBS in our portfolio and this may adversely affect our profitability. Prepayment rates generally increase when interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Prepayment rates also may be affected by conditions in the housing and financial markets, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgage loans. We often purchase MBS that have a higher interest rate than the prevailing market interest rate. In exchange for a higher interest rate, we typically pay a premium over par value to acquire these securities. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (or GAAP), we amortize the premiums on our MBS over the life of the related MBS. If the mortgage loans securing our MBS prepay at a rapid rate, we will have to amortize our premiums on an accelerated basis which may adversely affect our profitability. Our investment policies allow us to acquire MBS at an average portfolio purchase price of up to 103.5% of par value. As of December 31, 2006, the 6 amortized cost of our portfolio of MBS was approximately 101.6% of par value. Prepayments, which are the primary feature of MBS that distinguish them from other types of bonds, are difficult to predict and can vary significantly over time. As the holder of MBS, we receive a portion of our investment principal when underlying mortgages are prepaid. In order to continue to earn a return on this prepaid principal, we must reinvest it in additional MBS or other assets; however, if interest rates decline, we may earn a lower return on the new investment as compared to the original MBS. Prepayments may have a negative impact on our financial results, the effects of which depends on, among other things, the amount of unamortized premium on the MBS, the reinvestment lag and the reinvestment opportunities. Our business strategy involves a significant amount of borrowing that exposes us to additional risks. Pursuant to our financing strategy, we borrow against a substantial portion of the market value of our MBS and use the borrowed funds to acquire additional investment assets. Future increases in the amount by which the collateral value is required to contractually exceed the repurchase agreement loan amount, decreases in the market value of our MBS, increases in interest rate volatility, and changes in the availability of financing could cause us to be unable to achieve the degree of leverage we believe to be optimal. As a result, we may be less profitable than we would be otherwise. In addition, if the interest income on our MBS purchased with borrowed funds fails to cover the interest expense of the related borrowings, we will experience net interest losses and may experience net losses from operations. Such losses could be significant as a result of our leveraged structure. The use of borrowing, or “leverage,” to finance our MBS and other assets involves a number of other risks, including the following: • Our profitability may be limited by a reduction in our leverage. As long as we earn a positive spread between interest and other income we earn on our assets and our borrowing costs, we can generally increase our profitability by using greater amounts of leverage. However, the amount of leverage that we use may be limited because our lenders might not make funding available to us at acceptable rates or they may require that we provide additional collateral to secure our borrowings. In addition, in response to certain interest rate and investment environments, we could implement a strategy of reducing our leverage by selling assets or not replacing MBS as they amortize and/or prepay, thereby decreasing the outstanding amount of our related borrowings. Such an action would likely reduce interest income, interest expense and net income, the extent of which would be dependent on the level of reduction in assets and liabilities as well as the sale prices for which the assets were sold. • If we are unable to renew our borrowings at favorable rates, it may force us to sell assets and our profitability may be adversely affected. Since we rely primarily on borrowings under repurchase agreements to finance our MBS, our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends on our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms and on our ability to renew or replace maturing borrowings on a continuous basis. Our ability to enter into repurchase agreements in the future will depend on the market value of our MBS pledged to secure the specific borrowings, the availability of financing and other conditions existing in the lending market at that time. If we are not able to renew or replace maturing borrowings, we would be forced to sell some of our assets under possibly adverse market conditions, which may adversely affect our profitability. • A decline in the market value of our assets may result in margin calls that may force us to sell assets under adverse market conditions. The market value of our MBS, generally moves inversely to changes in interest rates and, as a result, may be negatively impacted by increases in interest rates. Accordingly, in a rising interest rate environment, the value of our assets may decline. A decline in the market value of our MBS may limit our ability to borrow against such assets or result in lenders initiating margin calls, which require a pledge of additional collateral or cash to re-establish the required ratio of borrowing to collateral value, under our repurchase agreements. As a result, we could be forced to sell some of our assets in order to maintain liquidity. Forced sales typically result in lower sales prices than do market sales which are made in the normal course of business. If our MBS were liquidated at prices below our amortized cost (i.e., the carrying value) of such investments, we would incur losses. • Our use of repurchase agreements to borrow money may give our lenders greater rights in the event of bankruptcy. We use repurchase agreements for most of our borrowing. Our policy is to enter repurchase agreements only with Quality Institutions. Borrowings made under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In the unlikely event that a lender under our repurchase agreements files for bankruptcy it may be difficult for us to recover our assets pledged as collateral to such 7 lender. In addition, if we ever file for bankruptcy, lenders under our repurchase agreements may be able to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the Bankruptcy Code and take possession of, and liquidate, our collateral under these agreements without delay. We may experience a decline in the market value of our assets. A decline in the market value of our MBS or other assets may require us to recognize an “other-than-temporary” impairment against such assets under GAAP if we were to determine that, with respect to any assets in unrealized loss positions, we do not have the ability and intent to hold such assets to maturity or for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery to the amortized cost of such assets. If such a determination were to be made, we would recognize unrealized losses through earnings and write down the amortized cost of such assets to a new cost basis, based on the fair market value of such assets on the date they are considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired. Such impairment charges reflect non-cash losses at the time of recognition; subsequent disposition or sale of such assets could further affect our future losses or gains, as they are based on the difference between the sale price received and adjusted amortized cost of such assets at the time of sale. Our investment strategy may involve credit risk. The holder of an ARM or MBS assumes a risk that the borrowers may default on their obligations to make full and timely payments of principal and interest. Our investment policy requires that at least 50% of our assets consist of ARM-MBS that are either issued or guaranteed by a federally charted corporation, such as Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, or an agency of the U.S. government, such as Ginnie Mae, or are rated in one of the two highest rating categories by at least one of the Rating Agencies. Even though we have acquired primarily Agency and AAA rated MBS to date, pursuant to our investment policy, we have the ability to acquire MBS and other investment assets of lower credit quality. At December 31, 2006, we owned $20.0 million of MBS rated below AAA. Such lower credit quality investments could cause us to incur losses of income from, and/or losses in market value relating to, these assets if there are defaults of principal and/or interest on, or if the Rating Agencies downgrade the credit rating of, these assets. Our use of derivatives to mitigate our interest rate risks may not be effective and may expose us to counterparty risks. In accordance with our operating policies, we may enter into certain types of derivative financial instruments, including Swaps, Caps and floors and other derivative transactions, to help us mitigate interest rate risk. No hedging strategy, however, can completely insulate us from the interest rate risks to which we are exposed or that the implementation of any hedging strategy would have the desired impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Certain of the U.S. federal income tax requirements that we must satisfy in order to qualify as a REIT may limit our ability to hedge against such risks. We will not enter into derivative transactions if we believe that they will jeopardize our qualification as a REIT. In addition, we use Swaps and Caps to hedge against anticipated future increases in interest rates on our repurchase agreements. Our policy is to enter into Caps and Swaps only with Quality Institutions. In the unlikely event that one of our counterparties cannot perform under the terms of our Cap Agreements, in addition to not receiving payments due under such Cap Agreements that off-set our interest expense, we would also incur a loss for all remaining unamortized premium paid for the specific Cap Agreement. Should a counterparty to a Swap be unable to make required payments pursuant to such Swap, the hedged liability would cease to be hedged for the remaining term of the Swap. In addition, we may be at risk for any collateral held by a counterparty to a Swap, should such counterparty become insolvent or file for bankruptcy. Changes in accounting treatment may adversely affect our profitability. We are awaiting further clarification by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (or FASB) regarding the current financial statement presentation for transactions which involve the acquisition of MBS from a counterparty and the subsequent financing of these MBS through repurchase agreements with the same counterparty. Although we believe that our current accounting treatment for these transactions is appropriate, we will reevaluate our position upon the issuance of further guidance from the FASB. If we determine that we are required to apply the position taken by certain members of the accounting community, based on a technical interpretation of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 140, “Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities”, the potential change in our accounting treatment would not affect the economics of 8 these transactions, but would affect how these transactions were reported on our consolidated financial statements. We believe that under this technical interpretation for same party transactions we would be precluded from presenting MBS and the related financings, as well as the related interest income and interest expense, on a gross basis on our consolidated financial statements. Instead, we would present the net investment in these transactions as derivatives and report the corresponding change in fair value of such derivatives on our consolidated statements of income. If the FASB determines that the technical interpretation should be applied to previously issued financial statements, our historical annual and quarterly net income could be materially and adversely impacted by changes in the fair value of such derivatives and other factors. We may change our policies without stockholder approval. The Board establishes and monitors all of our fundamental operating policies, including our investment, financing and distribution policies, and any revisions to such policies would require the approval of our Board. Our Board may amend or revise these policies at any time without a vote of our stockholders. Policy changes could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common stock or our ability to pay dividends or distributions. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level. We intend to pay dividends on our common stock in an amount equal to at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, which is calculated before deductions of dividends paid and excluding net capital gains, in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Dividends will be declared and paid at the discretion of our Board and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT qualification and such other factors as our Board may deem relevant from time to time. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stock and our ability to pay dividends may be negatively impacted by adverse changes in our operating results. We are dependent on our executives and employees. As a self-advised REIT, we are dependent on the efforts of our key officers and employees, including Stewart Zimmerman, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President; William Gorin, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Ronald Freydberg, Executive Vice President and Chief Portfolio Officer; Timothy W. Korth, General Counsel, Senior Vice President - Business Development and Secretary; and Teresa D. Covello, Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer. The loss of any of their services could have an adverse effect on our operations. We may be subject to risks associated with our investments in real estate. Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk. The economic returns from our indirect investment in Lealand Place, a 191-unit multi-family apartment property located in Lawrenceville, Georgia (or Lealand Place), may be impacted by a number of factors, including general and local economic conditions, the relative supply of apartments and other housing in the area, interest rates on mortgage loans, the need for and costs of repairs and maintenance of the property, government regulations and the cost of complying with them, taxes and inflation. In general, local conditions in the applicable market area significantly affect occupancy or rental rates for multi-family apartment properties. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, we will have limited ability to dispose of our investment quickly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, under certain circumstances, we may be subject to significant tax liability in the event that we sell our investment in the property. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances, we may be required, regardless of knowledge or responsibility, to investigate and remediate the effects of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at the property and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property or personal injury damages and for investigation and remediation costs incurred as a result of the contamination. These damages and costs may be substantial. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate the contamination, may adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or rent the affected property. We must operate the property in compliance with numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, including landlord tenant laws, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and other laws generally applicable to business operations. Noncompliance with such laws could expose us to liability. 9 Because of competition, we may not be able to acquire investment assets at favorable prices. Our profitability depends, in large part, on our ability to acquire MBS or other investment assets at favorable prices. In acquiring our investment assets, we compete with a variety of institutional investors, including other REITs, insurance companies, hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds, investment banking firms, banks and other financial institutions. Many of the entities with which we compete have greater financial and other resources than us. In addition, many of our competitors are not subject to REIT tax compliance or required to maintain an exemption from the Investment Company Act. As a result, we may not be able to acquire MBS or other investment assets for investment or we may have to pay more for these assets than we otherwise would. Our qualification as a REIT. We believe that we qualify for taxation as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes and plan to operate so that we can continue to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT. So long as we qualify as a REIT, we generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our income that we distribute currently to our stockholders. Many of the REIT requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. The determination that we are a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which involve questions of interpretation. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, like mortgage interest, that are itemized in the REIT tax laws. In addition, the composition of our assets must meet certain requirements at the close of each quarter. There can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (or IRS) or a court would agree with any conclusions or positions we have taken in interpreting the REIT requirements. We also are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our net taxable income (excluding net capital gains) on an annual basis. Such distribution requirement limits the amount of cash we have available for other business purposes, including amounts to fund our growth. Also, it is possible that because of differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash, we may have to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT qualification unless we meet certain statutory relief provisions. Furthermore, Congress and the IRS might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult or impossible for us to remain qualified as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates. Also, unless the IRS granted us relief under certain statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a REIT for four years following the year we first failed to qualify. If we failed to qualify as a REIT, we would have to pay significant income taxes. This likely would have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. In addition, we would no longer be required to pay any dividends to stockholders. Even if we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. Any of these taxes will reduce our operating cash flow. Compliance with securities laws and regulations could be costly. The SOX Act and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange affect the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, regulatory compliance and reporting, and disclosure practices. We believe that these rules and regulations will continue to make it costly for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of management and our Board (particularly with respect to Board members serving on our Audit Committee). Loss of our Investment Company Act exemption would adversely affect us. We intend to conduct our business so as to maintain our exempt status under, and not to become regulated as an investment company for purposes of, the Investment Company Act. If we failed to maintain our exempt status under the Investment Company Act and became regulated as an investment company, our ability to, among other things, use leverage would be substantially reduced and, as a result, we would be unable to conduct our business as described in this annual report on Form 10-K. The Investment Company Act exempts entities that are “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate” (i.e., qualifying interests). Under the current interpretation of the staff of the SEC, in order to qualify for this 10 exemption, we must maintain (i) at least 55% of our assets in qualifying interests (or the 55% Test) and (ii) at least 80% of our assets in real estate related assets (including qualifying interests) (or the 80% Test). MBS that do not represent all of the certificates issued (i.e., an undivided interest) with respect to the entire pool of mortgages (i.e., a whole pool) underlying such MBS may be treated as securities separate from such underlying mortgage loans and, thus, may not be considered qualifying interests for purposes of the 55% Test; however, such MBS would be considered real estate related assets for purposes of the 80% Test. Therefore, for purposes of the 55% Test, our ownership of these types of MBS is limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act. In meeting the 55% Test, we treat as qualifying interests those MBS issued with respect to an underlying pool as to which we own all of the issued certificates. If the SEC or its staff were to adopt a contrary interpretation, we could be required to sell a substantial amount of our MBS under potentially adverse market conditions. Further, in order to insure that it at all times qualifies for this exemption from the Investment Company Act, we may be precluded from acquiring MBS whose yield is higher than the yield on MBS that could be otherwise purchased in a manner consistent with this exemption. Accordingly, we monitor our compliance with both of the 55% Test and the 80% Test in order to maintain our exempt status under the Investment Company Act. As of December 31, 2006, we had determined that we were in and had maintained compliance with both of the 55% Test and the 80% Test. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 