ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our significant indebtedness and interest payment obligations may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing, repay the Term Loan, service other existing debt, use our operating cash flow in other areas of our business, or otherwise adversely affect our operations. We continue to be significantly leveraged. As of December 25, 2005, we had $218.7 million of consolidated debt outstanding and our consolidated debt as a percentage of capitalization was 47.0%. We may also need to incur additional debt in the future to complete acquisitions, make earn-out payments, make capital expenditures or for working capital, even though our Credit Agreement from the Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, or the Credit Facility, and other indebtedness may impose some limits on our ability to do so. Our high level of indebtedness could have other important consequences, which include the following: • Our ability to obtain additional financing to fund the repayment of the $10 million term loan agreement funded on August 29, 2005, or the Term Loan, debt service requirements, capital expenditures, working capital or other purposes may be impaired; • Our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business will be limited because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to pay interest and principal on our debt; • Our Credit Facility bears interest at variable rates, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; • We may not be able to compete with others who are not as highly leveraged; and • Our significant leverage may limit our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions, changes in our industry and economic downturns. Our ability to pay interest on our debt obligations and repay the Term Loan will depend upon our future operating performance and our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing. Prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will affect our ability to make these payments. If in the future we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our obligations, we will need to refinance, obtain additional financing or sell assets. Our business may not generate cash flow, or we may not obtain funding sufficient to satisfy the repayment of the Term Loan or our debt service requirements. 7 Table of Contents Our Credit Facility and Term Loan impose restrictions which may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities. The restrictions in our existing debt agreements, including the Credit Facility, and any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. These restrictions limit our ability, without agreement of our lenders, to: • Incur additional debt or prepay or modify any additional debt that may be incurred; • Make investments; • Pay any dividends or make any distributions; • Repurchase our securities; • Create liens; • Transfer or sell assets; • Enter into transactions with affiliates; • Issue or sell stock of subsidiaries; • Merge or consolidate; or • Materially change the nature of our business. In addition, our Credit Facility limits our ability to consummate acquisitions using total consideration in excess of $10 million without the consent of the participating banks. The November 3, 2005 Credit Facility Amendment restricted our ability to complete acquisitions by requiring the consent of participating banks for all acquisitions, including those using total consideration of less than $10 million, until we meet the original financial ratios contained in the Credit Facility. These limitations may reduce our ability to continue our acquisition program. Under our Credit Facility and Term Loan, as amended, we must maintain ratios of less than the following: For the Quarter Ending MaximumConsolidatedTotal LeverageRatio MaximumConsolidated SeniorLeverage Ratio December 25, 2005 4.30:1.0 2.90:1.0 March 26, 2006 4.00:1.0 2.65:1.0 June 25, 2006 3.80:1.0 2.60:1.0 September 24, 2006 3.70:1.0 2.25:1.0 December 31, 2006 and thereafter 3.25:1.0 2.25:1.0 As amended, we must maintain ratios of greater than the following: For the Quarter Ending MinimumConsolidatedFixed ChargesCoverage Ratio December 25, 2005 1.70:1.0 March 26, 2006 1.70:1.0 June 25, 2006 1.70:1.0 September 24, 2006 1.75:1.0 December 31, 2006 1.80:1.0 April 1, 2007 and thereafter 2.00:1.0 The Credit Facility and Term Loan contain cross-default provisions related to other indebtedness over $1,000,000, which is triggered by our failure to pay any such indebtedness or the breach of any other term or condition beyond any grace period of any such indebtedness. The effect of the cross-default provision is to permit the holders of the Credit Facility and Term Loan to declare those agreements in default and accelerate the 8 Table of Contents maturity or payment of that indebtedness. Triggering the cross-default provision will give rise to remedies under our Credit Facility and Term Loan that lenders can exercise prior to any remedies under the other indebtedness. Our Credit Facility and Term Loan also require us to timely deliver our financial statements to the lenders. Our ability to comply with these requirements may be affected by events beyond our control. If we breach any of these covenants in our Credit Facility and Term Loan, or if we are unable to comply with the required financial ratios, we may be in default under our Credit Facility and Term Loan or other indebtedness. A significant portion of our indebtedness then may become immediately due and payable. We may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. Compliance with the covenants is also a condition to continued borrowings under our revolving line of credit under our Credit Facility on which we will rely to fund our liquidity. Our Credit Facility matures on October 31, 2007 and we may not be able to refinance it on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Before our Credit Facility matures on October 31, 2007, we intend to refinance the Credit Facility. With rising interest rates and our significant leverage, we may not be able to refinance, in whole or in part, our outstanding balance under our Credit Facility on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our debt service increases under a refinanced credit facility, the increased interest costs could impact our net income. If we are unable to refinance our Credit Facility, in whole or in part, we do not believe cash flow from operations will be sufficient to repay a significant portion of the outstanding balance under our Credit Facility. Consequently, we may need to seek alternative financing to repay amounts that are not refinanced. Such alternative financing could include the issuance of additional equity, which would dilute existing shareholders and could significantly decrease our earnings per share. We may not be able to complete an equity financing on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to refinance our Credit Facility or complete an equity financing to repay our Credit Facility, we may need to sell assets to repay the Credit Facility. If we cannot pay amounts due under our Credit Facility, we may be in default, and our lenders may be able to exercise all their rights and remedies against us and our assets. Declines or disruptions in the travel industry, such as those caused by terrorism, war or general economic downturns, could reduce our revenues and seriously harm our business. Our revenue increases or decreases with the level of travel activity, particularly with the volume of business travel. Our revenue is especially sensitive to declines or disruptions in the travel industry, in particular those caused by economic conditions and those events that affect, or are perceived to degrade, traveler safety. The financial, political, economic and other uncertainties following the terrorist attacks upon the United States in September 2001 resulted in a significant decline in travel, and many of our customers became much more cautious regarding their travel plans. Future acts of war, terrorism, military or civil responses to terrorism or the fear of such events occurring, as well as general health and safety concerns, could cause travel volume to decrease dramatically and to remain at lower than anticipated volumes for an extended period of time. In addition, travel-related accidents, bad weather, increased fuel prices and new security directives, which make travel more expensive or more difficult, may reduce demand for travel services. Negative economic conditions may also decrease demand for travel services. A decrease in demand for travel services, in particular those services associated with business travel, will impact our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. If such a decrease continued for a long period of time, our financial condition could be significantly harmed. 9 Table of Contents If commissions, overrides or incentives for reservations or other revenues from vendors or suppliers are decreased or eliminated altogether, our revenue may be reduced. We derive part of our revenues from commissions paid by international airlines, incentive override commissions paid by the major airlines, incentive payments and other revenues from distribution system vendors and commissions from hotel and car vendors. International airlines are eliminating commissions, all airlines may reduce or terminate incentive override commissions, distribution system vendors may reduce or terminate incentive payments or other revenues, hotel and car vendors may reduce or terminate commissions and we may not be able to extend our current arrangements or enter into new arrangements that are as favorable as our current arrangements. If any of these events were to occur, our revenue could decrease and our financial condition could be seriously harmed. Additionally, if, during any period, we fail to meet our incentive level thresholds, our revenues could decrease. Our customers either pay for our services under management agreements or service fee arrangements. Under our management agreements, our customers pay us fees for transactions, and a significant portion of the revenues received by us from vendors on account of such transactions are typically credited against the fees payable by the customer to us. A reduction in vendor revenues would increase the out-of-pocket expenses for our customers and may cause such customers to seek a reduction in our fees or to terminate, or to attempt to terminate, their management agreements with us. For those agreements where we retain a portion of the vendor revenues, a decrease in revenues from vendors would also decrease that portion of those revenues retained by us under management agreements. For transactions performed for customers with whom we have service fee arrangements, we typically retain all vendor revenues paid on account of such transactions. If vendor revenues were to be reduced or eliminated, our revenues would decrease, and we may not be able to recover such reductions by increasing service fees to those customers. In addition, some of our customers can negotiate and obtain net agreements directly from vendors, and when this occurs we typically cease to receive revenue from the vendors for the travel activity of these customers. Although we attempt to recapture this revenue through increased or additional fees to the customer, we are not always able to obtain increased or additional fees, and consequently, our revenue would decrease. Our industry is extremely competitive, becoming increasingly consolidated and subject to new methods of distribution, all of which may result in loss of clients or declining revenues or margins. The corporate travel management industry is extremely competitive. We compete primarily with other corporate travel management companies. Some of our competitors have greater brand-name recognition and financial resources than we do. Competition within the corporate travel management industry is increasing as the industry undergoes a period of consolidation. Many of our competitors are expanding their size and financial resources through consolidation. Some travel management companies may have relationships with travel suppliers which give them access to favorable availability of products, including airplane seats and hotel rooms, or more competitive pricing than that offered to us. Furthermore, some corporate travel management companies have a strong presence in particular geographic areas which may make it difficult for us to attract customers in those areas. As a result of competitive pressures, we may suffer a loss of clients, and our revenues or margins may decline. We also compete with travel suppliers, including airlines, hotels and rental car companies. Innovations in technology, such as the Internet and computer online services, have increased the ability of travel suppliers to distribute their travel products and services directly to consumers. Although corporate travel management companies and travel agencies remain the primary channel for travel distribution, businesses and consumers can now use the Internet to access information about travel products and services and to purchase such products and services directly from the suppliers, thereby bypassing corporate travel management companies and travel agents. In addition, although we believe the service, knowledge and skills of our employees and our 10 Table of Contents incorporation of new, alternative distribution channels position us to compete effectively in the changing industry, there can be no assurance that we will compete successfully or that the failure to compete successfully will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As customers convert to our lower cost, online travel solutions, they often require that we maintain current service levels and staffing configurations, making it difficult to reduce our costs in proportion with the decrease in revenues. This can reduce our margins. Future acquisitions are a component of our strategy and our anticipated growth. We face risks in continuing to acquire corporate travel management companies. A substantial amount of the growth of our revenues has come from acquisitions. One of our strategies is to increase our revenues and the markets we serve through the acquisition of additional corporate travel companies. In the future, we may not make acquisitions at the pace we desire or on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, the consolidation of the travel management industry has reduced the number of companies available for purchase, which could lead to higher prices being paid for the acquisition of the remaining travel management companies. If we are unable to identify and successfully negotiate suitable acquisitions at the pace we desire or at all, we may not be able to generate sufficient internal growth to sustain our historical growth rate. The November 3, 2005 Credit Facility Amendment also restricted our ability to complete acquisitions by requiring the consent of the participating banks for all acquisitions until we meet certain financial ratios. The companies we have acquired, or which we may acquire in the future, may not achieve sales and profitability that would justify our investment in them. Our acquisitions of companies outside the United States may subject us to risks inherent in conducting business internationally. These risks include fluctuations in currency exchange rates, new and different legal and regulatory requirements and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. We currently intend to finance our future acquisitions by using cash, borrowed funds, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof. If our common stock does not maintain a sufficient market value, if our common stock price is highly volatile, or if, for other reasons, potential acquisition candidates are unwilling to accept our common stock as part of the consideration for the sale of their businesses, we may then be required to use more of our cash resources or more borrowed funds in order to maintain our acquisition program. Our Credit Facility and Term Loan limit our ability to consummate acquisitions using total consideration in excess of $10 million without the consent of participating banks. The November 3, 2005 Credit Facility Amendment further restricted our ability to complete acquisitions by requiring the consent of participating banks for all acquisitions until we meet certain financial ratios. If we are unable to use common stock for acquisitions and we do not have sufficient cash resources, our growth could be limited unless we are able to obtain additional capital through debt or other financing. We may not be able to obtain additional capital, if and when needed, on terms we deem acceptable. Governmental agencies, which in the aggregate are a material part of our customer base, are subject to budget processes, which could limit the demand for our travel services. Governmental agencies, which in the aggregate represent approximately 17% of our total revenues as of the year ended December 25, 2005, are subject to budgetary processes and expenditure constraints. The funding of government programs is subject to legislative appropriation. Budgetary allocations are dependent, in part, upon governmental policies which fluctuate from time to time in response to political and other factors. Although we have multi-year contracts with our governmental agency customers, governments generally appropriate funds on a fiscal year basis even though a contract may continue for several years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded and additional funds are committed only upon further appropriations. If our government agency customers do not receive legislative appropriation, such agencies may reduce their travel, which could reduce our revenue. 11 Table of Contents Governmental agencies have special contracting abilities and requirements, including the unilateral ability to suspend or terminate current contracts at will, to reduce the value of current contracts, and to prevent us from being awarded new contracts. As a government contractor, we are subject to periodic audits and reviews, which may decrease our revenues or adversely impact our margins. Also as a government contractor, we may have to meet onerous contract requirements, and our failure to meet these requirements may impact our revenues. Government contracts typically contain termination provisions unfavorable to us and are subject to audit and modification by the government at its sole discretion, which subject us to additional risks. These risks include the ability of the U.S. government to unilaterally: • Suspend or prevent us for a set period of time from receiving new contracts or extending existing contracts based on violations or suspected violations of laws or regulations; • Terminate our existing contracts; • Reduce the scope and value of our existing contracts; • Audit and object to our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs; and • Change terms and conditions in our contracts. The U.S. government can terminate any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform in accordance with the contract schedule and terms. Termination for convenience provisions generally enable us to recover only our costs incurred or committed, and settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. Termination for default provisions do not permit these recoveries and make us liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. government in procuring undelivered items from another source. As a government contractor, we are subject to periodic audits and reviews. Based on the results of its audits, the U.S. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. In addition, under U.S. government purchasing regulations, some of our costs may not be reimbursable or allowed in our negotiation of fixed-price contracts. Further, as a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to an increased risk of investigations, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities to which purely private sector companies are not. In contracting with governmental agencies, we are subject to governmental agency contract requirements that vary from agency to agency. Future sales to governmental agencies will depend, in part, on our ability to meet governmental agency contract requirements, which may be onerous or even impossible for us to satisfy. Goodwill comprises much of our total assets, and if we determine that goodwill has become impaired in the future, net income in such years will decrease. As of December 25, 2005, $398.5 million or 68.3% of our total assets and 158.6% of our stockholders’ equity represent goodwill. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations accounted for under the purchase method. We test for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. A write-down or impairment of goodwill would decrease our net income and our shareholders’ equity. Our customers are not committed to provide us with a specific volume of business and may terminate their contracts with us or choose not to renew contracts which could seriously harm our revenues. Our contracts with customers do not commit our customers to provide us with a specific volume of business and many can typically be terminated by our customers with or without cause, with little or no advance notice and without penalty. Customers may terminate their agreements with us for a variety of reasons, including acquisition or consolidation, a change in outsourcing strategy, or reactions to pressures, changes or perceived 12 Table of Contents advantages in the travel industry generally. Customers may attempt to use this leverage to negotiate a reduction in our fees. If a significant number of customers elected to terminate their agreements with us, or decided to reduce their travel expenditures, it could reduce our revenues and harm our business. If our travel suppliers cancel or modify their agreements with us, we may be subject to changes in our pricing agreements, commission schedules and incentive override commission arrangements and more restricted access to travel suppliers’ products and services, which could seriously harm our results of operations. We are dependent upon travel suppliers for access to their products and services, including airplane seats and hotel rooms. Travel suppliers offer us pricing that is preferential to published fares, enabling us to offer prices lower than would be generally available to travelers and other corporate travel management companies or travel agents. Travel suppliers can generally cancel or modify their agreements with us upon relatively short notice. If a travel supplier cancels or modifies their agreement with us, we may be subject to changes in our pricing agreements, commission schedules and incentive override commission arrangements, and more restricted access to travel suppliers’ products and services, which could seriously harm our results of operations. In addition, our clients may enter into net agreements with travel service providers to directly receive any override commissions in the form of additional point-of-sale discounts rather than allowing us to receive these commissions. If technologies we depend on fail or our right to use global distribution systems is restricted, we may not be able to process transactions for our customers as efficiently, if at all, which would seriously harm the results of our operations. Our business is dependent upon a number of different information and telecommunications technologies. In addition, our ability to quote prices for airline tickets, hotel rooms, rental cars and other travel related services, make reservations, and sell such and other travel related services is dependent upon our contractual right to use, and the performance of, global distribution systems operated by Sabre, Galileo/Apollo and Worldspan. If these technologies or systems fail, or if our access to these systems is restricted, we may not be able to process transactions for our customers as efficiently, if at all, which would seriously harm our results of operations. Rapid technological changes and new distribution channels may adversely affect the value of our current or future technologies to us and our customers, which could cause us to increase expenditures to upgrade and protect our technology or develop and protect competing offerings in new distribution channels. Distribution channels and technology in our industry are evolving rapidly. Our ability to compete and our future results depend in part on our ability to make timely and cost-effective enhancements and additions to our technology, to introduce new products and services that meet customer demands and to keep pace with rapid advancements in technology. Maintaining flexibility to respond to technological and market dynamics may require substantial expenditures and lead-time. We cannot assure you that we will successfully identify and develop new products or services in a timely manner, that offerings, technologies or services developed by others will not render our offerings obsolete or noncompetitive, or that the technologies in which we focus our investments will achieve acceptance in the marketplace and provide a return on our investment. Bankruptcies of airlines or other providers of travel services could result in us failing to collect outstanding receivables from these providers or having to repay a portion of collected revenues to the bankruptcy trustee. We derive part our revenue from commissions paid by international airlines, incentive override commissions paid by various airlines and incentive payments and commissions from other providers of travel services. This revenue is recorded as a receivable as earned and collected on a monthly or quarterly basis. If an airline or other provider of travel services were to declare bankruptcy, we may not receive payment for these outstanding receivables in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, the debtor or the bankruptcy trustee may claim that any receivables collected by us during the 90 days prior the bankruptcy filing were preference payments, which may need to be disgorged. If we do not collect this revenue, or have to return revenue as a preference 13 Table of Contents payment, we would become a general unsecured creditor of the debtor, and we may not collect any amount of our outstanding receivable. If we fail to collect these receivables or have to disgorge collected receivables as a preference payment, our revenue would decrease. Conversion of our outstanding 4.875% convertible subordinated debentures due 2023 into our common stock would dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their debentures. The conversion of some or all of our 4.875% convertible subordinated debentures due 2023 into our common stock, including conversions following certain changes of control of Navigant, would dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the debentures may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the debentures could depress the price of our common stock. Our industry is seasonal, causing fluctuating results of operations. The domestic and international travel service industry is seasonal. Our past results have fluctuated because of seasonal variations in the travel services industry. Our net revenues and net income are generally higher in the second and third calendar quarters and lowest in the fourth calendar quarter. We expect this seasonality to continue in the future. Our quarterly results of operations may also be subject to fluctuations as a result of the timing and cost of acquisitions, changes in relationships with travel suppliers, changes in the mix of services offered by us, the timing of the payment of incentive override commissions by travel suppliers, extreme weather conditions or other factors affecting travel. If our agent reporting agreements are cancelled, we would be unable to sell airline tickets and our revenues would decrease. We depend on the ability to sell airline tickets for a substantial portion of our revenue. To sell airline tickets, we must enter into, and maintain, an agent reporting agreement for each operating subsidiary with the Airlines Reporting Corporation, or ARC, for domestic agencies or with the Bank Settlement Plan, or BSP, for international agencies. Agent reporting agreements impose numerous financial, operational and administrative obligations on us. These agreements allow ARC or BSP to cancel an agent reporting agreement for failure to meet any of these obligations. If our agent reporting agreements are cancelled by ARC or BSP, we would be unable to sell airline tickets and our revenues would decrease. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. We do not have unresolved written comments from the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. 