ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following factors regarding information included in this Annual Report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. NEGATIVE CONDITIONS IN THE GLOBAL CREDIT MARKETS MAY IMPAIR THE LIQUIDITY OF A PORTION OF OUR INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO AND OUR ABILITY TO MAINTAIN OVERALL LIQUIDITY, NEGATIVELY IMPACTING OUR OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months and the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, make timely principal and interest payments on our debt and replace certain maturing liabilities Our investment securities consist of high-grade (AAA rated) auction rate securities ("ARS") issued primarily by municipalities, with a par value of approximately $13.6 million. The recent negative conditions in the global credit markets have prevented some investors from liquidating their holdings, including their holdings of ARS. In early March 2008, we were informed that there was insufficient demand at auction for all six of our high-grade ARS. As a result, these affected securities are currently not liquid, and we could be required to hold them until they are redeemed by the issuer or to maturity. In the event we need to access the funds that are in an illiquid state, we will not be able to do so 22 Table of Contents without a loss of principal, until a future auction on these investments is successful, the securities are redeemed by the issuer or they mature. In December 2008, we, via our wholly-owned subsidiary Genetronics, Inc., or "Genetronics", which holds the ARS, accepted an offer of ARS Rights from UBS. The ARS Rights permit us to require UBS to purchase our ARS at par value at any time during the period of June 30, 2010 through July 2, 2012. If we do not exercise our ARS Rights, the ARS will continue to accrue interest as determined by the auction process or the terms of the ARS if the auction fails. If the ARS Rights are not exercised before July 2, 2012 they will expire and UBS will have no further obligation to buy our ARS. UBS has the discretion to purchase or sell our ARS at any time without prior notice so long as we receive a payment at par upon any sale or disposition. UBS will only exercise its discretion to purchase or sell our ARS for the purpose of restructurings, dispositions or other solutions that will provide us with par value for our ARS. As a condition to accepting the offer of ARS Rights, we released UBS from all claims except claims for consequential damages relating to its marketing and sales of ARS. We also agreed not to serve as a class representative or receive benefits under any class action settlement or investor fund. In conjunction with the acceptance of the rights offering, Genetronics also amended its existing loan agreement with UBS Bank USA, increasing the existing credit line up to $12.1 million, with the ARS pledged as collateral. Genetronics fully drew down on the line of credit in December 2008. Although the Company has been able to regain limited liquidity through this line of credit secured by the ARS and expects redemption of the ARS pursuant to the rights obtained, the line of credit may not provide sufficient liquidity for the Company's current operational needs. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. In the event current resources, including our ARS and the related line of credit, do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a downturn in available funding, partnership opportunities and other fluctuations. The crisis in the global financial markets currently places significant limitations on the general availability of credit and the number and level of interest of investors. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities take negative actions against us. Further, even if financing becomes available, the cost to us may be significantly higher than in the past. Our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows position could be materially adversely affected by these disruptions in the financial markets, including the resulting lack of liquidity in our current investments and availability of financing for future liquidity. WE WILL HAVE A NEED FOR SIGNIFICANT FUNDS IN THE FUTURE AND THERE IS NO GUARANTEE THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO OBTAIN THE FUNDS WE NEED. Developing new medical devices and conducting clinical trials is expensive. Our product development efforts may not lead to commercial products, either because our product candidates fail to be found safe or effective in clinical trials or because we lack the necessary financial or other resources or relationships to pursue our programs through advance phases of clinical trials to commercialization. Our capital and future revenue may not be sufficient to support the expenses of our operations, the development of a commercial infrastructure and the conduct of our pre-clinical research and clinical trials, although based upon our current budgeting and cash flow models, we believe that we can support our operations during the next 12 months. 23 Table of Contents Our plans for conducting research, furthering development, continuing current and future pre-clinical and clinical trials and, eventually, marketing our human-use equipment will involve substantial costs. The extent of such costs will depend on many factors, including some of the following: •The progress and breadth of pre-clinical testing and the size or complexity of our clinical trials and drug delivery programs, all of which directly influence cost; •Higher than expected costs involved in complying with the regulatory process to get our human-use products approved, including the number, size, and timing of necessary clinical trials and costs associated with the current assembly and review of existing clinical and pre-clinical information; •Higher than expected costs involved in patenting our technologies and defending them and pursuing our overall intellectual property strategy; •Changes in our existing research and development relationships and our ability to efficiently negotiate and enter into new agreements; •Changes in or terminations of our existing collaboration and licensing arrangements; •Faster or slower than expected rate of progress and changes in the scope and the cost of our research and development and clinical trial activities; •An increase or decrease in the amount and timing of milestone payments we receive from collaborators; •Higher than expected costs of preparing an application for FDA approval of our product development programs; •Higher than expected costs of developing the processes and systems to support FDA approval of our product development programs; •An increase in our timetable and costs for the development of marketing operations and other activities related to the commercialization of our product development programs; •Higher than expected costs to further develop and scale up our manufacturing capability of our human-use equipment; and •Competition for our products and our ability, and that of our partners, to commercialize our products. We plan to fund operations by several means. We will attempt to enter into contracts with partners that will fund either general operating expenses or specific programs or projects. Some funding also may be received through government grants. However, we may not be able to enter into any such contracts or may not receive such grants or, if we do, our partners and the grants may not provide enough funding to meet our needs. In the past, we have raised funds through the public and private sale of our stock, and we are likely to seek to do this in the future. However, due to the significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock as a result of the extreme fluctuations in the global financial markets recently, there may not be sufficient investor interest in such sales at such time as we seek to raise additional funds, or if there is interest, it may not be at a price or on terms favorable to us. Further, sale of our stock to new investors results in dilution of the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. The greater the number of shares sold, the greater the dilution. A high degree of dilution can make it difficult for the price of our stock to increase, among other things. Dilution also weakens existing stockholders' voting power. Although we would consider also utilizing debt to fund our operations, such as our current use of our Line of Credit secured by our ARS, given the constriction of available credit and the fluctuation of interest rates in the global financial markets currently, additional debt financing 24 Table of Contents may also be unavailable when needed, or available solely on terms not favorable to us. Thus, we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional capital or secure alternate financing to fund operations on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Further, on July 7, 2008, we announced the signing of a definitive merger agreement with VGX Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a privately-held corporation; we cannot assure you that the merger, if completed, will in any way negate or mitigate the need for future capital nor can we project how it may impact our ability to raise future funds. ANY ACQUISITION WE MIGHT MAKE MAY BE COSTLY AND DIFFICULT TO INTEGRATE, MAY DIVERT MANAGEMENT RESOURCES OR DILUTE STOCKHOLDER VALUE. We have considered and made strategic acquisitions in the past, including the acquisition of Inovio AS, and in the future, may acquire or invest in complementary companies, products or technologies. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire assets or businesses principally relating to or complementary to our current operations, and we have in the past evaluated and discussed such opportunities with interested parties. Any acquisitions we undertake will be accompanied by issues commonly encountered in business acquisitions, which could adversely affect us, including: •Potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; •The difficulty and expense of assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses; •Diversion of management time and attention and other resources; •Loss of key employees and customers as a result of changes in management; •Increased legal, accounting and other administrative costs associated with negotiation, documentation and reporting any such acquisition; •Possible dilution to our stockholders; and •Possible acceleration of financing needs. In addition, geography and/or language barriers may make the integration of businesses more difficult. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any of our acquisitions. On July 7, 2008, we announced the signing of a definitive merger agreement with VGX Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a privately-held corporation. In addition to the general risks and uncertainties of any business combination noted above, some of the inherent uncertainties we currently face in the proposed merger include: •The parties' potential difficulties in quickly learning about and accurately evaluating each other's clinical trials and product development programs, including, but not limited to, the fact that pre-clinical and clinical results achieved by each party to date may not be indicative of results achievable in other trials or for other indications and that results from one study may not necessarily be reflected or supported by the results of other similar studies; •The potential impact of the proposed merger on availability of ongoing or new funding to support continuing research and studies in an effort to prove safety and efficacy of electroporation technology as a delivery mechanism or develop viable DNA vaccines; •The availability or potential availability of alternative therapies or treatments for the conditions targeted by the parties or their collaborators, including alternatives that may be more efficacious or cost-effective than any therapy or treatment that the parties and their collaborators hope to develop; •The impact of the proposed transaction, including the time commitment from the parties' management, on the parties' abilities to evaluate and potentially pursue other potential collaborative or acquisition opportunities; 25 Table of Contents •Issues involving patents and whether they or licenses to them will provide the parties with meaningful protection from others using the covered technologies, and whether the merger, if completed, will impact any such protections; •Whether the parties' proprietary rights are enforceable or defensible or infringe or allegedly infringe on rights of others or can withstand claims of invalidity and whether the combined company can finance or devote other significant resources that may be necessary to prosecute, protect or defend them; •The level of corporate expenditures required to complete the merger process and, if completed, subsequently integrate the operations of the parties; •Any assessments of the companies' proposed combined technology by potential corporate or other partners or collaborators; •Potential stockholder litigation in connection with the merger; •Evaluation of the transaction by the NYSE Amex, which may impact the current and/or additional listing of the Company's securities; and •The impact of the application of FAS 141(R) to the accounting treatment of the merger, if consummated. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other issues encountered in connection with the proposed merger, we cannot assure you that the merger will be consummated, and we cannot assure you that the results of the merger, if completed, will meet the expectations of the parties and their stockholders. THE NYSE AMEX MAY DELIST OUR SECURITIES FROM QUOTATION ON ITS EXCHANGE IF WE ARE UNABLE TO MAINTAIN A SUFFICIENT STOCK PRICE, AND IF SO, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO RELIST OUR SECURITIES ON THE NYSE AMEX OR ANOTHER NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGE DUE TO THE LEVEL OF PERCEIVED MARKET VALUE OF SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our securities are currently listed on the NYSE Amex (the "NYSE Amex"), a national securities exchange, and in recent months have experienced a significant drop in market price. The NYSE Amex may seek to delist our securities from trading on its exchange if the NYSE Amex determines that the market price of our common stock has been persistently too low or if we fail to maintain compliance with other requirements of continued listing on the NYSE Amex. If NYSE Amex finds that we are non-compliant, it will issue a warning letter, which will require the Company to respond regarding potential actions it intends to take to support the market price. If such actions are not found sufficient by the NYSE Amex, if we cannot get any required approvals for such actions from its stockholders, or we otherwise cannot or do not complete such actions in a timely manner, the NYSE Amex will initiate the delisting process. If the NYSE Amex delists our securities from trading on its exchange and we are unable to relist our securities on the NYSE Amex or another national securities exchange due to the level of the perceived market price of shares of its common stock, the Company could face significant material adverse consequences, including: •an inability to fulfill the closing conditions for the pending merger with VGX Pharmaceuticals, Inc. under the terms of the definitive merger agreement; •a limited availability of market quotations for its securities; •a determination that its common stock is a "penny stock" which will require brokers trading in its common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the trading market for Inovio common stock; •a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for its company; and 26 Table of Contents •a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Any of these consequences would likely have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operations, and would result in a potential decrease in liquidity of our common stock. IF WE DO NOT HAVE ENOUGH CAPITAL TO FUND OPERATIONS, THEN WE WILL HAVE TO CUT COSTS. If we are unable to raise additional funds under terms acceptable to us and in the interests of our stockholders, then we will have to take measures to cut costs, such as: •Delaying, scaling back or discontinuing one or more of our gene delivery programs or other aspects of operations, including laying off personnel or stopping or delaying planned preclinical research and the initiation or continuation of clinical trials; •The sale or license some of our technologies that we would not otherwise sell or license if we were in a stronger financial position; •The sale or license some of our technologies under terms that are less favorable than they otherwise might have been if we were in a stronger financial position; and •Potentially merging with another company or positioning ourselves to be acquired by another company. If it became necessary to take one or more of the above-listed actions, then our perceived valuation may be lower, which could impact the market price for our common stock. Further, the effects on our operations, financial performance and stock price may be significant if we do not or cannot take one or more of the above-listed actions in a timely manner if and when needed, and our ability to do so may be limited significantly due to the instability of the global financial markets and the resulting limitations on available financing to us and to potential licensees, buyers and investors. THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK IS VOLATILE, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT AN INVESTMENT IN OUR STOCK. Our share price and trading volume are traditionally highly volatile, and such volatility has been exacerbated by the crisis in the global financial markets which has resulted in extreme fluctuations in market performance overall throughout the recent weeks. Such volatility is not unusual for biomedical companies of our size, age, and with a discrete market niche and is likely to continue even if the global markets stabilize. It also is common for the trading volume and price of biotechnology stocks to be unrelated to a company's operations, i.e. to increase or decrease on positive or no news. Our stock has exhibited this type of behavior in the past, and will likely exhibit it in the future. The historically low trading volume of our stock, in relation to many other biomedical companies of our size, makes it more likely that a severe fluctuation in volume, either up or down, will affect the stock price. Some factors that we would expect to depress the price of our stock include: •Adverse clinical trial results; •Adverse research and development results; •Our inability to obtain additional capital; •Announcement that the FDA denied our request to approve our human-use product for commercialization in the United States, or similar denial by other regulatory bodies which make independent decisions outside the United States; •Announcement of legal actions brought by or filed against us for patent or other matters, especially if we receive negative rulings or outcomes in such actions; 27 Table of Contents •Announcement of an investigation of or an action against us by the SEC, NYSE Amex, or other state or federal regulatory authorities related to corporate governance or securities issues, including any prolonged comment letter response process, especially if such circumstances result in negative outcomes such as a significant restatement of our prior financial results; •Cancellation of corporate partnerships which include Merck, Wyeth as well as other material agreements; •Public concern as to the safety or efficacy of our human-use products including public perceptions regarding gene therapy in general; •Potential negative market reaction to the terms or volume of any issuances of shares of our stock to new investors or service providers; •Stockholders' decisions, for whatever reasons, to sell large amounts of our stock; •Declining working capital to fund operations, or other signs of apparent financial uncertainty; •Significant advances made by competitors that adversely affect our potential market position; and •The loss of key personnel and the inability to attract and retain additional highly-skilled personnel. These factors, as well as the other factors described in this report, could significantly affect the price of our stock. In addition, we announced on July 7, 2008, a pending merger transaction; the uncertainties inherent in such transactions regarding timing, potential for success, impacts on operations and dilution to our current stockholders may further exacerbate fluctuations in our stock price. We believe that quarter-to-quarter or annual comparisons of our operating results are not a good indicator of our future performance. Nevertheless, these fluctuations may cause us to perform below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this happens, the price of shares of our common stock would likely decline. SALES OF SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNTS OF OUR SHARES, OR EVEN THE AVAILABILITY OF OUR SHARES FOR SALE, IN THE OPEN MARKET COULD CAUSE THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR SHARES TO DECLINE. Under our registration statement that the SEC declared effective on May 25, 2006, we have registered an aggregate of $75.0 million of our equity securities that we may issue from time to time, in one or more offerings at prices and on terms that we will determine at the time of each offering. Under that registration statement, we have registered multiple kinds of our equity securities, including our common stock, preferred stock, warrants and a combination of these securities, or units. Through December 31, 2008, we have "taken-down" from our shelf registration statement, and issued and sold, an aggregate of 9,035,378 shares of our common stock valued at $26.9 million and warrants to purchase up to 1,575,919 shares of our common stock valued at $3.9 million and, if those warrants are fully exercised, we will have issued an additional 1,575,919 shares of our common stock under that shelf registration statement. In other words, the shares of common stock we have sold in offerings from our shelf registration statement as of the date of this report represent approximately 36% of the value of the aggregate equity securities from our shelf registration statement (41% if the warrants we have sold from our shelf registration statement are fully exercised). While that amount is only approximately 24% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2008, future issuances and sales of our common stock or securities exercisable for or convertible into our common stock pursuant to our existing shelf registration statement, if in substantial numbers, and even the availability for issuance of the securities registered under our shelf registration statement, could adversely affect the market price of our shares. 28 Table of Contents In addition to the shares and warrants we have issued from our shelf registration statement, during 2007 we also issued 2,201,644 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase up to 938,475 shares of our common stock in other recent offerings, as well as other restricted shares pursuant to consulting arrangements and other registered securities pursuant to our stock incentive plan in 2007 and 2008. Further, effective February 15, 2008, the SEC revised Rule 144, which provides a safe harbor for the resale of restricted securities, shortening applicable holding periods and easing other restrictions and requirements for resales by our non-affiliates, thereby enabling an increased number of our outstanding restricted securities to be resold sooner in the public market. Further, if we complete our pending merger transaction, as announced July 7, 2008, we will issue a significant number of registered shares which will substantially dilute our current stockholders and which will be freely tradable for non-affiliates of the post-merger company. Sales of substantial amounts of our stock at any one time or from time to time by the investors to whom we have issued them, or even the availability of these shares for sale, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES, WE EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO INCUR LOSSES AND WE MAY NOT ACHIEVE OR MAINTAIN PROFITABILITY. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $152.8 million. We have operated at a loss since 1994, and we expect this to continue for some time. The amount of the accumulated deficit will continue to increase, as it will be expensive to continue research, development and clinical efforts. If these activities are successful and if we receive approval from the FDA to market equipment, then even more funding will be required to market and sell the equipment. The outcome of these matters cannot be predicted at this time. We are evaluating additional potential partnerships and collaborative agreements as a way to further fund operations, but there is no assurance we will be able to secure partnerships or other arrangements that will provide the required funding, if at all. We will continue to rely on outside sources of financing to meet our capital needs beyond next year. In the past, we have raised funds through the public and private sale of our stock, and we are likely to seek to do this in the future. However, due to the significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock as a result of the extreme fluctuations in the global financial markets recently, there may not be sufficient investor interest in such sales at such time as we seek to raise additional funds, or if there is interest, it may not be at a price or on terms favorable to us. Further, there can be no assurance, assuming we successfully raise additional funds, that we will achieve positive cash flow. If we are unable to raise additional funds under terms acceptable to us and in the interests of our stockholders, then we will have to take measures to cut costs, such as delaying, scaling back or discontinuing one or more of our gene delivery programs or other aspects of operations, including laying off personnel or stopping or delaying planned preclinical research and the initiation or continuation of clinical trials. OUR DEPENDENCE UPON NON-MARKETED PRODUCTS, OUR LACK OF EXPERIENCE IN MANUFACTURING AND MARKETING HUMAN-USE PRODUCTS, AND OUR CONTINUING DEFICIT MAY RESULT IN EVEN FURTHER FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR TRADING VOLUME AND SHARE PRICE. Even if we were to achieve successful clinical results in our programs, successful approval, marketing, and sales of our human-use equipment are also critical to the financial future of our company. Our human-use products are not yet approved for sale in the United States and other jurisdictions and we may never obtain these approvals regardless of whether we achieve successful clinical trial results utilizing such human-use products. Even if we do obtain approvals to sell our human-use products in the United States, these sales may not be as large or as timely as we expect. 29 Table of Contents These uncertainties may further cause our operating results to fluctuate dramatically in the next several years. OUR ABILITY TO UTILIZE OUR NET OPERATING LOSSES AND CERTAIN OTHER TAX ATTRIBUTES MAY BE LIMITED. As of December 31, 2008, we had net operating losses (NOLs) of approximately $59.4 million for federal income tax purposes and approximately $58.0 million for state income tax purposes. We also had federal research tax credit carryforwards of approximately $1.2 million as of December 31, 2008. Utilization of the NOLs and tax credit carryforwards may be subject to a substantial annual limitation under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and similar state provisions due to ownership change limitations that have occurred previously or that could occur in the future. These ownership changes may limit the amount of NOL and tax credit carryforwards and other deferred tax assets that can be utilized to offset future taxable income and tax, respectively. In general, an ownership change, as defined by Section 382, results from transactions increasing ownership of certain stockholders or public groups in the stock of the corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. An analysis was performed of ownership activity through December 31, 2008 which indicated that multiple ownership changes have occurred in previous years which created annual limitations on the Company's ability to utilize NOL and tax credit carryovers. Such limitations will result in approximately $12.7 million of tax benefits related to NOL and tax credit carryforwards that will expire unused. Any limitation on our net operating loss carryforwards that could be used to offset post-ownership change in taxable income would adversely affect our liquidity and cash flow, as and when we become profitable. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO DEVELOP COMMERCIALLY SUCCESSFUL PRODUCTS IN VARIOUS MARKETS FOR MULTIPLE INDICATIONS, OUR BUSINESS WILL BE HARMED AND WE MAY BE FORCED TO CURTAIL OR CEASE OPERATIONS. We cannot assure you that we will successfully develop any products, or if we do, that they will be commercially successful. If we fail to develop or successfully commercialize any products, we may be forced to refocus, curtail or cease operations. Our ability to achieve and sustain operating profitability depends on our ability, directly or with strategic partners, to successfully commercialize our products in Europe, Asia and in the US. This will depend in large part on our ability to commence, execute and complete clinical programs and obtain regulatory approvals for our products. Clinical trials are still necessary before we can seek regulatory approval to sell our products. We cannot assure you that we will receive approval for our products in the United States or in other countries or, if approved, that we or a partner will achieve a significant level of sales. If we fail to partner or commercialize our products, we may be forced to curtail or cease operations. We are also in the pre-clinical stages of research and development with other new product candidates using our electroporation technology. These new indications and product candidates will require significant costs to advance through the development stages. Even if such product candidates are advanced through clinical trials, the results of such trials may not gain FDA approval. Even if approved, our products may not be commercially successful. PRE-CLINICAL AND CLINICAL TRIALS OF HUMAN-USE EQUIPMENT ARE UNPREDICTABLE, AND IF WE EXPERIENCE UNSUCCESSFUL TRIAL RESULTS, OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER. Before any of our human-use equipment can be sold, the FDA or applicable foreign regulatory authorities must determine that the equipment meets specified criteria for use in the indications for which approval is requested, including obtaining appropriate regulatory approvals. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years, and involves compliance with requirements covering research and development, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling and promotion of drugs for 30 Table of Contents human use. To obtain regulatory approvals, we must, among other requirements, complete pre-clinical research and clinical trials demonstrating that our product candidates are safe and effective for a particular cancer type or other disease. Regulatory approval of a new treatment is never guaranteed. The FDA will make this determination based on the results from our pre-clinical testing and clinical trials and has substantial discretion in the approval process. Despite the time and experience exerted, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems causing us to abandon pre-clinical research and clinical trial activities. In addition, any of our clinical trials for treatment using our therapy may be delayed or halted at any time for various other reasons, including: •The electroporation-mediated delivery of DNA vaccines or related agents may be found to be ineffective or be considered to cause harmful side effects, including death; •Our clinical trials may take longer than anticipated for any of a number of reasons, including a scarcity of subjects that meet the physiological or pathological criteria for entry into the study and a scarcity of subjects that are willing to participate through the end of the trial, or follow-up visits; •The reported clinical data may change over time as a result of the continuing evaluation of patients or the current assembly and review of existing clinical and pre-clinical information; •Data from various sites participating in the clinical trials may be incomplete or unreliable, which could result in the need to repeat the trial or abandon the project; and •Pre-clinical and clinical data can be interpreted in many different ways, and the FDA and other regulatory authorities may interpret our data differently than we do, which could halt or delay our clinical trials or prevent regulatory approval. If any of the above events arise during our pre-clinical research, clinical trials or data review, we would expect this to have a serious negative impact on our company. Any termination of ongoing enrollment or other delay or change in the conduct of our clinical trials may not always be understood or accepted by the capital markets and announcements of such scientific results and related actions may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have experienced such problems in the past when we stopped further patient enrollment in two Phase III pivotal studies for squamous cell head and neck cancer in 2007. Any delays or difficulties we have encountered or will encounter in our pre-clinical research and clinical trials, may delay or preclude regulatory approval. Our product development costs will increase if we experience delays in testing or regulatory approvals or if we need to perform more extensive or larger clinical trials than planned. Any such events could also delay or preclude the commercialization of our therapy or any other product candidates. Clinical trials are unpredictable, especially human-use trials. Results achieved in early stage clinical trials may not be repeated in later stage trials, or in trials with more patients. When early positive results were not repeated in later stage trials, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have suffered significant setbacks. Not only are commercialization timelines pushed back, but some companies, particularly smaller biotechnology companies with limited cash reserves, have discontinued business after releasing news of unsuccessful clinical trial results. We cannot be certain the results we observed in our pre-clinical testing will be confirmed in clinical trials or the results of any of our clinical trials will support FDA approval. If we experience unexpected, inconsistent or disappointing results in connection with a clinical or pre-clinical trial our business will suffer. A delay in our pre-clinical research or our clinical trials, for whatever reason, will probably require us to spend additional funds to keep our product(s) moving through the regulatory process. If we do not have or cannot raise additional funds, then the testing of our human-use products could be 31 Table of Contents discontinued. In the event our pre-clinical research or our clinical trials are not successful, we will have to determine whether to continue to fund our programs to address the deficiencies, or whether to abandon our clinical development programs for our products in tested indications. Loss of our human-use product line would be a significant setback for our company. Because there are so many variables inherent in pre-clinical research or clinical trials, we cannot predict whether any of our future regulatory applications to conduct clinical trials will be approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, whether our clinical trials will commence or proceed as planned, and whether the trials will ultimately be deemed to be successful. To date, our experience has been that submission and approval of clinical protocols has taken longer than desired or expected. OUR BUSINESS IS HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON RECEIVING APPROVALS FROM VARIOUS REGULATORY AUTHORITIES AND WILL BE DRAMATICALLY AFFECTED IF APPROVAL TO MANUFACTURE AND SELL OUR HUMAN-USE EQUIPMENT IS NOT GRANTED OR IS NOT GRANTED IN A TIMELY MANNER. The production and marketing of our human-use equipment and our ongoing research, development, pre-clinical testing, and clinical trial activities are subject to extensive regulation. Numerous governmental agencies in the U.S. and internationally, including the FDA, must review our applications and decide whether to grant regulatory approval. All of our human-use equipment must go through an approval process, in some instances for each indication for which we want to label it for use (such as use for transfer of a certain gene to a certain tissue). These regulatory processes are extensive and involve substantial costs and time. We have limited experience in, and limited resources available, for such regulatory activities. Failure to comply with applicable regulations can, among other things, result in non-approval, suspensions of regulatory approvals, fines, product seizures and recalls, operating restrictions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Any of the following events can occur and, if any did occur, any one could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations: •As mentioned earlier, clinical trials may not yield sufficiently conclusive results for regulatory agencies to approve the use of our products; •There can be delays, sometimes long, in obtaining approval for our human-use devices, and indeed, we have experienced such delays in obtaining FDA approval of our clinical protocols; •The rules and regulations governing human-use equipment such as ours can change during the review process, which can result in the need to spend time and money for further testing or review; •If approval for commercialization is granted, it is possible the authorized use will be more limited than we believe is necessary for commercial success, or that approval may be conditioned on completion of further clinical trials or other activities; and •Once granted, approval can be withdrawn, or limited, if previously unknown problems arise with our human-use product or data arising from its use. WE CANNOT PREDICT THE SAFETY PROFILE OF THE USE OF OUR ELECTROPORATION SYSTEM WHEN USED IN COMBINATION WITH OTHER THERAPIES. Our current clinical trials involve the use of our electroporation system in combination with certain DNA vaccines. While the data we have evaluated to date suggest the use of electroporation does not alone have significant adverse effects nor increase the adverse effects of other therapies, we cannot predict if this outcome will continue to be true or whether possible adverse side effects directly 32 Table of Contents attributable to the vaccines provided by our partners and collaborators will compromise the safety profile of our electroporation-based DNA delivery system when used in certain combination therapies. In some instances, clinical results may not clearly indicate whether possible adverse effects are related to our technology versus other study related factors. WE COULD BE SUBSTANTIALLY DAMAGED IF PHYSICIANS AND HOSPITALS PERFORMING CLINICAL TRIALS USING OUR EQUIPMENT DO NOT ADHERE TO PROTOCOLS DEFINED IN CLINICAL TRIAL AGREEMENTS. We work and have worked with a number of hospitals to perform clinical trials, primarily in the field of oncology. We depend on these hospitals to recruit patients for our trials, to perform the trials according to our protocols, and to report the results in a thorough, accurate and consistent manner. Although we have agreements with these hospitals which govern what each party is to do with respect to each protocol, patient safety, and avoidance of conflict of interest, there are risks that the terms of the contracts will not be followed, such as the following: Possible Deviations from Protocol. The hospitals or the physicians working at the hospitals may not perform the trials correctly. Deviations from our protocol may make the clinical data not useful and the trial could become essentially worthless. Potential for Conflict of Interest. Physicians working on protocols may have an improper economic interest in our company, or other conflict of interest. When a physician has a personal stake in the success of the trial, such as when a physician owns stock, or rights to purchase stock of the trial sponsor, it can create suspicion that the trial results were improperly influenced by the physician's interest in economic gain. Not only can this put the clinical trial results at risk, but it can also cause serious damage to a company's reputation. Patient Safety and Consent Issues. Physicians and hospitals may fail to secure formal written consent as instructed or report adverse effects that arise during the trial in the proper manner, which could put patients at unnecessary risk. Physicians and hospital staff may fail to observe proper safety measures such as the mishandling of used medical needles, which may result in the transmission of infectious and deadly diseases, such as HIV. This increases our liability, affects the data, and can damage our reputation. If any of these events were to occur, then it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to receive regulatory authorization to sell our human-use equipment, and on our reputation. Negative events that arise in the performance of clinical trials sponsored by biotechnology companies of our size and with limited cash reserves have resulted in companies going out of business. While these risks are always present, to date, our contracted physicians and clinics have been successful in collecting significant data regarding the clinical protocols under which they have operated, and we are unaware of any conflicts of interest or improprieties regarding our protocols. EVEN IF OUR PRODUCTS ARE APPROVED BY REGULATORY AUTHORITIES, IF WE FAIL TO COMPLY WITH ON-GOING REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS, OR IF WE EXPERIENCE UNANTICIPATED PROBLEMS WITH OUR PRODUCTS, THESE PRODUCTS COULD BE SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIONS OR WITHDRAWAL FROM THE MARKET. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to certain requirements resulting in costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. Later discovery of previously unknown 33 Table of Contents problems with our products, including unanticipated adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency regarding manufacturer or manufacturing processes or failing to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recall, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures or detention, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH FOREIGN REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS GOVERNING HUMAN CLINICAL TRIALS AND MARKETING APPROVAL FOR OUR HUMAN-USE EQUIPMENT COULD PREVENT US FROM SELLING OUR PRODUCTS IN FOREIGN MARKETS, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS. For marketing our MedPulser® Electroporation System outside the United States, the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country and may require additional testing. The time required to obtain approvals outside the United States may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approval on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the FDA. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements or to obtain required approvals could impair our ability to develop these markets and could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. OUR ABILITY TO ACHIEVE SIGNIFICANT REVENUES FROM SALES OR LEASES OF HUMAN-USE PRODUCTS WILL DEPEND ON ESTABLISHING EFFECTIVE SALES, MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION CAPABILITIES OR RELATIONSHIPS AND WE CURRENTLY LACK SUBSTANTIAL EXPERIENCE IN THESE AREAS. To market our products, we will need to develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. In order to develop or otherwise obtain these capabilities, we may have to enter into marketing, distribution or other similar arrangements with third parties in order to sell, market and distribute our products successfully. To the extent that we enter into any such arrangements with third parties, our product revenue is likely to be lower than if we marketed and sold our products directly, and our revenues will depend upon the efforts of these third parties. We have limited experience in sales, marketing and distribution of clinical and human-use products and we currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capability. If we decide to market and sell our human-use products directly, we must develop a marketing and sales capability. This would involve substantial costs, training and time. We may be unable to develop sufficient sales, marketing and distribution capabilities to commercialize our products successfully. Regardless of whether we elect to use third parties or seek to develop our own marketing capability, we may not be able to successfully commercialize any product. WE RELY ON COLLABORATIVE AND LICENSING RELATIONSHIPS TO FUND A PORTION OF OUR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO MAINTAIN OR EXPAND EXISTING RELATIONSHIPS, OR INITIATE NEW RELATIONSHIPS, WE WILL HAVE TO DEFER OR CURTAIL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES IN ONE OR MORE AREAS. Our partners and collaborators fund a portion of our research and development expenses and assist us in the research and development of our human-use equipment. These collaborations and partnerships help pay the salaries and other overhead expenses related to research. In the past, we have encountered operational difficulties after the termination of an agreement by a former partner. Because this partnership was terminated, we did not receive significant milestone payments which we had expected and were forced to delay some clinical trials as well as some product development. We 34 Table of Contents may experience such operational difficulties or termination of such relationships without anticipated payment again in the future. We also rely on scientific collaborators at companies and universities to further expand our research and to test our equipment. In most cases, we lend our equipment to a collaborator, teach him or her how to use it, and together design experiments to test the equipment in one of the collaborator's fields of expertise. We aim to secure agreements that restrict collaborators' rights to use the equipment outside of the agreed upon research, and outline the rights each of us will have in any results or inventions arising from the work. Nevertheless, there is always potential that: •Our equipment will be used in ways we did not authorize, which can lead to liability and unwanted competition; •We may determine that technology has been improperly assigned to us or a collaborator may claim rights to certain of our technology, which may require us to pay license fees or milestone payments and, if commercial sales of the underlying product are achieved, royalties; •We may lose rights to inventions made by our collaborators in the field of our business, which can lead to expensive litigation and unwanted competition; •Our collaborators may not keep our confidential information to themselves, which can lead to loss of our right to seek patent protection and loss of trade secrets, and expensive litigation; and •Collaborative associations can damage a company's reputation if they fail and thus, by association or otherwise, the scientific or medical community may develop a negative view of us. We cannot guarantee that any of the results from these collaborations will be successful. We also cannot be sure that we will be able to continue to collaborate with individuals and institutions that will further develop our products, or that we will be able to do so under terms that are not overly restrictive. If we are not able to maintain or develop new collaborative relationships, it is likely that our research pace will slow down and that it will take longer to identify and commercialize new products, or new indications for our existing products. A SMALL NUMBER OF LICENSING PARTNERS ACCOUNT FOR A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF OUR REVENUE IN EACH PERIOD AND OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION COULD SUFFER IF WE LOSE THESE LICENSING PARTNERS OR FAIL TO ADD ADDITIONAL LICENSING PARTNERS IN THE FUTURE. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of licensing partners in each period. Accordingly, if we fail to sign additional future contracts with major licensing partners, if a licensing contract is delayed or deferred, or if an existing licensing contract expires or is cancelled and we fail to replace the contract with new business, our revenue would be adversely affected. Until commercialization of our Medpulser® Electroporation System, we expect that a limited number of licensing partners will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue in each quarter in the foreseeable future. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, one licensing partner, Merck, accounted for approximately 30% and 68%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue. During the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 another licensing partner, Wyeth, accounted for 40% and 23%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue. We expect revenues from Wyeth and Merck to be significantly lower in 2009, as Wyeth evaluates internal strategic options prior to initiating further development of electroporation-based infectious disease programs and development activities for Merck will be limited for the foreseeable future. Further, Wyeth has recently agreed to be acquired by Pfizer Inc. and Merck has recently agreed to acquire Schering-Plough Corporation. Development and funding priorities may change as a result of these transactions, which may lead to the suspension or 35 Table of Contents termination of our relationships with Wyeth or Merck. Any such suspension or termination would likely adversely affect our business. IF WE CANNOT MAINTAIN OUR EXISTING CORPORATE AND ACADEMIC ARRANGEMENTS AND ENTER INTO NEW ARRANGEMENTS, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO DEVELOP PRODUCTS EFFECTIVELY, OR AT ALL. Our strategy for the research, development and commercialization of our product candidates may result in us entering into contractual arrangements with corporate collaborators, academic institutions and others. We have entered into sponsored research, license and/or collaborative arrangements with several entities, including Merck, Wyeth, Vical, Valentis, the U.S. Navy, Chiron and the University of South Florida, as well as numerous other institutions that conduct clinical trials work or perform pre-clinical research for us. Our success depends upon our collaborative partners performing their responsibilities under these arrangements and complying with the regulations and requirements governing clinical trials. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources our collaborative partners devote to our research and testing programs or product candidates, or their compliance with regulatory requirements which can vary because of factors unrelated to such programs or product candidates. These relationships may in some cases be terminated at the discretion of our collaborative partners with only limited notice to us. Merck can terminate its May 2004 license and collaboration agreement with us at any time in its sole discretion, without cause, by giving ninety days' advance notice to us. If this agreement is terminated by Merck at any time during the first two years of the collaboration term, then Merck shall continue, for a six-month period beginning on the date of such termination, to make payments previously approved by the project's joint collaboration committee in relation to scientists and outside contractors engaged by us in connection with the agreement. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, Merck accounted for approximately 30% and 68%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue. In addition, some of our sponsored research, license and/or collaborative arrangements contain "Change of Control" or other protective provisions that may be triggered by our pending merger with VGX Pharmaceuticals, announced July 7, 2008, if completed, which may enable pre-mature termination of such arrangements or otherwise may impact the status of such arrangements for the post-merger company. For example, our agreement with Wyeth requires that we provide Wyeth with certain notifications of a pending qualifying transaction and enables Wyeth to terminate our arrangement if such notice and certain other written assurances regarding the priority and commitment to the arrangement are not timely provided to Wyeth by the Company and/or the other Change of Control transaction party prior to consummation of such transaction. Similarly, our arrangement with Merck requires certain notice of a Change of Control transaction and also enables termination under limited circumstances as a result. Other arrangements require that we seek and obtain prior written consent from the collaborative party ahead of the consummation of any Change of Control transaction. Although we intend to comply with applicable notice and other documentation requirements pursuant to such "Change of Control" provisions in these and other collaborative arrangements, we cannot assure you that, to the extent such rights exist, our partners will not seek to terminate or alter their arrangements with us in relation to the closing of the proposed merger transaction. Whether or not we complete the proposed merger, we may not be able to maintain our existing arrangements, enter into new arrangements or negotiate current or new arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. Some of our collaborative partners may also be researching competing technologies independently from us to treat the diseases targeted by our collaborative programs. 36 Table of Contents WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO STOCKHOLDER LITIGATION, WHICH WOULD HARM OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. We may have actions brought against us by stockholders relating to our proposed merger with VGX, past transactions, changes in our stock price or other matters. Any such actions could give rise to substantial damages, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. Even if an action is not resolved against us, the uncertainty and expense associated with stockholder actions could harm our business, financial condition and reputation. Litigation can be costly, time-consuming and disruptive to business operations. The defense of lawsuits could also result in diversion of our management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. WE RELY HEAVILY ON OUR PATENTS AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS TO ATTRACT PARTNERSHIPS AND MAINTAIN MARKET POSITION. The strength of our patent portfolio is an important factor that will influence our success. Patents give the patent holder the right to prevent others from using its patented technology. If someone infringes upon the patented material of a patent holder, the patent holder has the right to initiate legal proceedings against that person to protect its patented material. These proceedings, however, can be lengthy and costly. We perform an ongoing review of our patent portfolio to confirm that our key technologies are adequately protected. If we determine that any of our patents require either additional disclosures or revisions to existing information, we may ask that such patents be reexamined or reissued, as applicable, by the United States Patent and Trademark Office. The patenting process, enforcement of issued patents, and defense against claims of infringement are inherently risky. Because we rely heavily on patent protection, we face the following significant risks: Possibility of Inadequate Patent Protection for Product. The United States Patent and Trademark Office or foreign patent offices may not grant patents of meaningful scope based on the applications we have already filed and those we intend to file. If we do not have patents that adequately protect our human-use equipment and indications for its use, then we will not be competitive. Potential That Important Patents Will Be Judged Invalid. Some of the issued patents we now own or license may be determined to be invalid. If we have to defend the validity of any of our patents, the costs of such defense could be substantial, and there is no guarantee of a successful outcome. In the event an important patent related to our drug delivery technology is found to be invalid, we may lose competitive position and may not be able to receive royalties for products covered in part or whole by that patent under license agreements. Danger of Being Charged With Infringement. Although we are not currently aware of any parties intending to pursue infringement claims against us, there is the possibility that we may use a patented technology owned by another person and/or be charged with infringement. Defending or indemnifying a third party against a charge of infringement can involve lengthy and costly legal actions, and there can be no guarantee of a successful outcome. Biotechnology companies comparable to us in size and financial position have discontinued business after losing infringement battles. If we or our partners were prevented from using or selling our human-use equipment, then our business would be materially adversely affected. Freedom to Operate Issues. We are aware that patents related to electrically-assisted drug delivery have been granted to, and patent applications have been filed by our potential competitors. We or our partners have received licenses from some of these patents, and will consider receiving additional licenses in the future. Nevertheless, the competitive nature of our field of business and the fact that 37 Table of Contents others have sought patent protection for technologies similar to ours make these potential issues significant. In addition to patents, we also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We try to protect this information with appropriate confidentiality and inventions agreements with our employees, scientific advisors, consultants, and collaborators. We cannot be sure that these agreements will not be breached, that we will be able to protect ourselves if they are breached, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. If any of these events occur, then we face the potential of losing control over valuable company information, which could negatively affect our competitive position. IF WE ARE NOT SUCCESSFUL IN DEVELOPING OUR CURRENT PRODUCTS, OUR BUSINESS MODEL MAY CHANGE AS OUR PRIORITIES AND OPPORTUNITIES CHANGE AND OUR BUSINESS MAY NEVER DEVELOP TO BE PROFITABLE OR SUSTAINABLE. There are many products and programs that seem promising to us which we could pursue. However, with limited resources, we may decide to change priorities and shift programs away from those that we have been pursuing for the purpose of exploiting our core technology of electroporation. The choices we make will be dependent upon numerous contemporaneous factors, some of which we cannot predict. We cannot be sure that our business model, as it currently exists or as it may evolve, will enable us to become profitable or to sustain operations. SERIOUS AND UNEXPECTED SIDE EFFECTS ATTRIBUTABLE TO GENE THERAPY MAY RESULT IN GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITIES IMPOSING ADDITIONAL REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS OR A NEGATIVE PUBLIC PERCEPTION OF OUR PRODUCTS. The gene therapy or DNA vaccine product candidates under development could be broadly described as gene therapies. A number of clinical trials are being conducted by other pharmaceutical companies involving gene therapy, including compounds similar to or competitive with, our product candidates. The announcement of adverse results from these clinical trials, such as serious unwanted and unexpected side effects attributable to treatment, or any response by the FDA to such clinical trials, may impede the progress of our clinical trials, delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval, or negatively influence public perception of our product candidates, which could harm our business and results of operations and reduce the value of our stock. The U.S. Senate has held hearings concerning the adequacy of regulatory oversight of gene therapy clinical trials, as well as the adequacy of research subject education and protection in clinical research in general, and to determine whether additional legislation is required to protect volunteers and patients who participate in such clinical trials. The Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee, or RAC, which acts as an advisory body to the National Institutes of Health, has expanded its public role in evaluating important public and ethical issues in gene therapy clinical trials. Implementation of any additional review and reporting procedures or other additional regulatory measures could increase the costs of or prolong our product development efforts or clinical trials. As of December 31, 2008, to our knowledge, there have not been any serious adverse events in any gene therapy clinical trials in which our technology was used. In the future, if one or a series of serious adverse events were to occur during a gene therapy clinical trial in which our technology was used, we would report all such events to the FDA and other regulatory agencies as required by law. Such serious adverse events, whether treatment-related or not, could result in negative public perception of our treatments and require additional regulatory review or other measures, which could increase the cost of or prolong our gene therapy clinical trials or require us to halt our clinical trials altogether. The commercial success of our products will depend in part on public acceptance of the use of gene therapy products or gene-induced products, which are a new type of disease treatment for the 38 Table of Contents prevention or treatment of human diseases. Public attitudes may be influenced by claims that gene therapy products or gene-induced products are unsafe, and these treatment methodologies may not gain the acceptance of the public or the medical community. Negative public reaction to gene therapy products or gene-induced products could also result in greater government regulation and stricter clinical trial oversight. WE HAVE THE POTENTIAL FOR PRODUCT LIABILITY ISSUES WITH HUMAN-USE EQUIPMENT. The testing, marketing and sale of human-use products expose us to significant and unpredictable risks of equipment product liability claims. These claims may arise from patients, clinical trial volunteers, consumers, physicians, hospitals, companies, institutions, researchers or others using, selling, or buying our equipment. Product liability risks are inherent in our business and will exist even after the products are approved for sale. If and when our human-use equipment is commercialized, we run the risk that use (or misuse) of the equipment will result in personal injury. The chance of such an occurrence will increase after a product type is on the market. We have obtained liability insurance in connection with our ongoing business and products, and we may purchase additional policies if such policies are determined by management to be necessary. However, our existing insurance and the insurance we purchase may not provide adequate coverage in the event a claim is made and we may be required to pay claims directly. If we did have to make payment against a claim, it would impact our financial ability to perform the research, development, and sales activities that we have planned. If and when our human-use equipment is commercialized, there is always the risk of product defects. Product defects can lead to loss of future sales, decrease in market acceptance, damage to our brand or reputation, product returns and warranty costs, and even product withdrawal from the market. These events can occur whether the defect resides in a component we purchased from a third party or whether it was due to our design and/or manufacturer. We expect that our sales agreements will contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability claims. However, we do not know whether these limitations will be enforceable in the countries in which the sale is made. Any product liability or other claim brought against us, if successful and of sufficient magnitude, could negatively impact our financial performance. WE CANNOT BE CERTAIN THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO MANUFACTURE OUR HUMAN-USE EQUIPMENT IN SUFFICIENT VOLUMES AT COMMERCIALLY REASONABLE COSTS. Our manufacturing facilities for human-use products will be subject to quality systems regulations, international quality standards and other regulatory requirements, including pre-approval inspection for our human-use equipment and periodic post-approval inspections for all human-use products. While we have undergone and passed a quality systems audit from an international body, we have never undergone a quality systems inspection by the FDA. We may not be able to pass an FDA inspection when and if it occurs. If our facilities are found not to be compliant with FDA standards in sufficient time, prior to a launch of our product in the United States, then it will result in a delay or termination of our ability to produce our human-use equipment in our facility. Any delay in production will have a negative effect on our business. While there are no target dates set forth for launch of our products in the United States, we plan on launching each product once we successfully perform a Phase III clinical study involving a particular use of our technology, obtain the requisite regulatory approval, and engage a partner who has the financial resources and marketing capacity to bring our products to market. Our products must be manufactured in sufficient commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at an acceptable cost to be attractive to purchasers. We rely on third 39 Table of Contents parties to manufacture and assemble most aspects of our equipment, and thus cannot directly control the quality, timing or quantities of equipment manufactured or assembled at any given time. Disruption of the manufacture of our products, for whatever reason, could delay or interrupt our ability to manufacture or deliver our products to customers in a timely basis. This would be expected to affect revenue and may affect our long-term reputation, as well. In the event we provide product of inferior quality, we run the risk of product liability claims and warranty obligations, which will negatively affect our financial performance. THERE IS A POSSIBILITY THAT OUR TECHNOLOGY WILL BECOME OBSOLETE OR LOSE ITS COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE. The vaccine development and delivery business is very competitive, fast moving and intense, and expected to be increasingly so in the future. Other companies and research institutions are developing drug delivery systems that, if not similar in type to our systems, are designed to address the same patient or subject population. Therefore, we cannot promise that our products will be the best, the safest, the first to market, or the most economical to manufacture and use. If competitors' products are better than ours, for whatever reason, then we could become less profitable from product sales and our products could become obsolete. There are many reasons why a competitor might be more successful than us, including: Financial Resources. Some competitors have greater financial resources and can afford more technical and developmental setbacks than we can. Greater Experience. Some competitors have been in the biomedical business longer than we have. They have greater experience than us in critical areas like clinical testing, obtaining regulatory approval and sales and marketing. This experience or their name recognition may give them a competitive advantage over us. In certain international markets, local companies may be given preferential treatment by local physicians and hospitals. Superior Patent Position. Some competitors may have better patent protection over their technology than we have or will have in order to protect our technology. If we cannot use our patents to prevent others from copying our technology or developing similar technology, or if we cannot obtain a critical license to another's patent that we need to manufacture and use our equipment, then we would expect our competitive position to weaken. Faster to Market. Some companies with competitive technologies may move through stages of development, approval, and marketing faster than us. If a competitor receives FDA approval before us, then it will be authorized to sell its products before we can sell ours. Because the first company "to market" often has a significant advantage over others, a second place position could result in less than anticipated sales. Reimbursement Allowed. In the U.S., third party payers, such as Medicare, may reimburse physicians and hospitals for competitors' products but not for our own human-use products. This would significantly affect our ability to sell our human-use products in the U.S. and would have a negative impact on revenue and our business as a whole. Outside of the U.S., reimbursement and funding policies vary widely. IF WE LOSE KEY PERSONNEL OR ARE UNABLE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN ADDITIONAL, HIGHLY SKILLED PERSONNEL REQUIRED TO DEVELOP OUR PRODUCTS OR OBTAIN NEW COLLABORATIONS, OUR BUSINESS MAY SUFFER. We depend, to a significant extent, on the efforts of our key employees, including senior management and senior scientific, clinical, regulatory and other personnel. The development of new 40 Table of Contents therapeutic products requires expertise from a number of different disciplines, some of which is not widely available. We depend upon our scientific staff to discover new product candidates and to develop and conduct pre-clinical studies of those new potential products. Our clinical and regulatory staff is responsible for the design and execution of clinical trials in accordance with FDA requirements and for the advancement of our product candidates toward FDA approval. Our manufacturing staff is responsible for designing and conducting our manufacturing processes in accordance with the FDA's Quality System Regulations. The quality and reputation of our scientific, clinical, regulatory and manufacturing staff, especially the senior staff, and their success in performing their responsibilities, are significant factors in attracting potential funding sources and collaborators. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and other executive officers are involved in a broad range of critical activities, including providing strategic and operational guidance. The loss of these individuals, or our inability to retain or recruit other key management and scientific, clinical, regulatory, manufacturing and other personnel, may delay or prevent us from achieving our business objectives. We face intense competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. WE MAY NOT MEET ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES AND AS A RESULT COULD BE SUBJECT TO CIVIL AND CRIMINAL PENALTIES. Like all companies in our industry, we are subject to a variety of governmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous substances. Our safety procedures for handling, storage and disposal of such materials are designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations. While we believe we are currently in compliance with all material applicable environmental regulations, if we are found to not comply with environmental regulations, or if we are involved with contamination or injury from these materials, then we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties. This would have a negative impact on our reputation and finances, and could result in a slowdown or even complete cessation of our business. CHANGES IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATES MAY AFFECT OUR FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS. In January 2005, we acquired Inovio AS, a Norwegian company. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, Inovio AS contributed approximately $135,000 and $159,000 to our revenue, respectively, which amounted to approximately 6% and 3% of our total revenue. Inovio AS conducts its operations primarily in foreign currencies, including the Euro, Norwegian Kroner and Swedish Krona. In September 2006, we established Inovio Asia Pte. Ltd., a company incorporated in the Republic of Singapore, which conducts its operations primarily in Singaporean dollars. Fluctuation in the values of these foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will affect our financial results which are reported in U.S. dollars and will cause U.S. dollar translation of such currencies to vary from one period to another. We cannot predict the scope of any fluctuations in the values of these foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar nor the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results. OUR RESTRUCTURING OF OUR NORWEIGIAN SUBSIDIARY, INOVIO AS, MAY NOT REALIZE THE EFFICIENCIES ANTICIPATED AND COULD RESULT IN ADDITIONAL, UNANTICIPATED LIABILITIES, WHICH WOULD HAVE A NEGATIVE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. On December 31, 2007, our wholly-owned Norwegian subsidiary Inovio AS transferred certain patent and other intellectual property rights ("IPR") to our wholly owned U.S. subsidiary Genetronics, Inc. The value assigned to these rights was $1.9 million, which was determined by and was the responsibility of management of Inovio, who considered in part preliminary work performed by a valuation specialist in Norway. All Norwegian tax gains associated with this transfer of the patents and 41 Table of Contents IPR was offset by prior year tax loss carry forwards. Subsequent to year-end, Inovio changed the name of Inovio AS to Inovio Tec AS. Simultaneously, we incorporated a new Norwegian wholly-owned subsidiary under the name Inovio AS, for the purpose of organizing a research effort directed towards the development of specific cancer vaccine candidates. In January 2008, all employees, employee agreements, lease agreements and fixed assets were transferred from Inovio Tec AS to Inovio AS, and the parties intend to enter into a licensing agreement governing use of future IPR shortly. Further, although we and our board of directors retain ultimate control over and responsibility for Inovio AS, Inovio AS now has a distinct board of directors, consisting of two members of our board of directors and two Norwegian personnel, intended to allow more efficient balancing of U.S. legal and regulatory concerns with Norwegian legal and regulatory concerns in the course of decision-making. This restructuring of our Norwegian operations is intended to better focus the research and development efforts conducted in Norway on our strategic programs and easing access to previously developed IPR for Inovio and its other subsidiaries. We expect funding for this program to be about $5.0 million over the next several years. Although designed to be tax-neutral to the parties, we cannot assure you that the tax authorities in Norway or the U.S. will agree with the valuation of the transferred assets or the procedures through which the transfers were made. If such disagreements were to arise, we may face unanticipated tax liabilities in Norway or the U.S. arising from the asset transfer. Further, as there will be an ongoing licensing relationship between the parties post-transfer, it is possible that such arrangements will receive heightened scrutiny for potential transfer pricing issues, which could result in additional liability to us. We believe that the new Inovio AS is now appropriately organized and staffed, and has the necessary resources and commitments for future resources to conduct its research and development efforts in support of our business strategy. However, we cannot assure readers that Inovio AS will not require further staff or financing beyond these initial commitments, or that we will be able to provide such resources if and when requested. To the extent Inovio AS or we face additional tax or transfer pricing issues, our operating results and overall financial condition may be adversely affected. In particular, if we are unable to provide additional support for Inovio AS when requested, Inovio AS may not be able to reach previously specified targets and milestones in a timely manner, undermining its financial stability and the commercial potential for its prostate cancer vaccine program. OUR FACILITIES ARE LOCATED NEAR KNOWN EARTHQUAKE FAULT ANDWILDFIRE ZONES, AND THE OCCURRENCE OF AN EARTHQUAKE, SIGNIFICANT WILDFIRE, OR OTHER CATASTROPHIC DISASTER COULD CAUSE DAMAGE TO OUR FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT. Our facilities are located near known earthquake fault zones and areas prone to severe seasonal wildfires and are vulnerable to damage from earthquakes and wildfires. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including fire, floods, power loss, communications failures and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities would be seriously impaired. In addition, the unique nature of our research activities could cause significant delays in our programs and make it difficult for us to recover from a disaster. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other business interruptions. Accordingly, an earthquake, wildfire or other disaster could materially and adversely harm our ability to conduct business. 