ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Our success depends on new product development. Because substantially all of our revenue comes from the sale of HCU systems and related products, our financial performance will depend upon market acceptance of, and our ability to deliver and support, new products. We have a continuing research and development program designed to develop new products and improve existing products. The life cycles of our products are difficult to estimate and can be significantly affected by technological changes that are difficult to predict. Factors which could cause delays in our product development schedules or even cancellation of our projects to produce and market these products include: research and development delays; competitors producing competing products; other products using new technologies emerge; or industry or regulatory standards exceeding our products’ specifications. If we fail to enhance our existing products or develop and market new products, our products will become obsolete and we will be unable to compete. Our establishment, maintenance and expansion of direct sales and distribution operations will require a significant investment of our financial and management resources and may fail to generate a substantial increase in sales. We have eight wholly-owned subsidiaries located in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Spain, Japan, Canada, Australia and China. Establishing, maintaining and expanding these operations will require us to: substantially increase our costs of operations; establish an efficient and self-reliant local infrastructure; attract, hire, train and retain qualified local sales and administrative personnel; comply with additional local regulatory requirements; and expand our information, financial, distribution and control systems to manage expanded global operations. Our movement into international markets has required, and will continue to require, substantial financial and management resources. The costs of this expansion are unpredictable, difficult to control and may exceed budgeted amounts. Despite our expenditures and efforts, we may not generate a substantial increase in international revenue, which would impair our operating results. If our new products and innovations do not gain market acceptance, we will fail to generate sufficient revenue to maintain and grow our business. The market for high-performance, HCU systems is relatively new. We seek to sell our products to current users of ultrasound, as well as to physicians and other healthcare providers who do not currently use ultrasound. The success of our products depends on their acceptance by the medical community, patients and third-party payers as medically useful, safe and cost-effective. Competing portable or traditional cart-based ultrasound devices may be more accepted or cost-effective than our products. Physicians and other healthcare providers may adopt our products, particularly our newest product, at a slow rate, if at all. Although customers who are experienced in ultrasound procedures will need little, if any, specialized training to use our products, any new users of ultrasound will require training and education to properly administer ultrasound examinations. If these potential customers are unable or unwilling to be trained due to cost, time constraints, unavailability of courses or other reasons, we could experience limited demand for our products. If the market fails to accept our products, we will be unable to generate sufficient revenue to maintain our business. 11 If we are unable to compete effectively, we will fail to generate sufficient revenue to maintain our business. We currently face competition from companies that manufacture cart-based and portable ultrasound systems. The dominant competitors in this industry are GE Healthcare, Siemens, and Philips. These competitors are very large, global organizations and have the following advantages over us: significantly greater financial and infrastructure resources; larger research and development staffs; greater experience in product manufacturing, marketing and distribution; greater brand name recognition; and long-standing relationships with many of our existing and potential customers. These manufacturers of cart-based and portable ultrasound systems could use their greater resources to increase and withstand competition through various means, including price and payment terms, marketing strategies that bundle the sale of portable systems with other medical products, technological innovation, market penetration, employee compensation, hospital systems integration and complementary services such as warranty protection, maintenance and product training. Existing product supply relationships between these competitors and our potential customers could discourage widespread adoption of our products due to brand loyalty or preferred customer discounts. Competition from these companies for employees with experience in the primary point-of-care market could result in higher turnover of our employees. If we are unable to respond to competitive pressures within the cart-based and HCU markets, we could experience delayed or reduced market acceptance of our products, higher expenses and lower revenue. In addition, as the market for high-performance HCU develops, we expect competition to increase as potential and existing competitors enter the portable market or modify their existing products to more closely approximate the combined portability, quality, performance and cost of our products. Our current competitors in the portable market include Siemens, GE Healthcare, Philips, Biosound Esaote, Inc., Medison America, Terason, and Zonare. These competitors may develop highly portable or point-of-care ultrasound systems that offer the same or greater reliability and quality, perform greater or more useful functions or are more cost-effective than our products. Some of these competitors may also be able to use their marketing resources to gain a competitive advantage by more effectively building brand awareness of their products. If we are unable to compete effectively with current or new entrants to the high-performance, HCU market, we will be unable to generate sufficient revenue to maintain our business. Our lack of long-term customer purchase commitments and our limited order backlog make it difficult to predict sales and plan manufacturing requirements, which can lead to lower revenue, higher expense and reduced gross margin. We do not generally have long-term or volume purchase commitments with our customers, who typically order products on a purchase order basis. In limited circumstances, customer orders may be cancelled, changed or delayed on short notice. Lack of significant order backlog makes it difficult for us to forecast future sales with certainty. Varying sales cycles with our customers make it difficult to accurately forecast component and product requirements. These factors expose us to a number of risks: If we overestimate our requirements, we may be obligated to purchase more components or third-party products than is required; If we underestimate our requirements, our third-party manufacturers and suppliers may have an inadequate product or product component inventory, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and lower revenue; We may also experience shortages of product components from time to time, which also could delay the manufacturing of our products; and Over or under production can lead to higher expense, lower than anticipated revenue, and reduced gross margin. 12 Our results of operations are subject to significant quarterly variation and periodic fluctuation. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly due to a combination of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: the timing of new product introductions by us or our competitors; the timing of regulatory approvals; the timing of shipment of orders from major customers and distributors, including bulk orders from governmental entities and demo orders from new distributors; seasonal buying patterns of our customers; development and promotional expenses relating to new product introductions; the revenue mix by product and geography; changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; foreign exchange rates; fluctuations in our consolidated tax rates; our ability to meet demand for our products; the market acceptance of our products; legal costs; changes in distribution channels; and the ability of our sales force to effectively market and sell our products. Accordingly, our quarterly sales and operating results may vary significantly in the future, and period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. If we experience difficulties in manufacturing, we may fail to meet our 2007 revenue projections or we may incur greater than expected warranty expense. The final assembly and testing of our products is done at our Bothell, Washington facility incorporating components manufactured by various suppliers. If we encounter supplier, regulatory, engineering or technical difficulties in manufacturing, we may incur delays in delivery of these products to customers that could adversely affect our revenues for 2007 and beyond. We expect our warranty liability and expense to continue to increase significantly due to the five-year warranty offered with the MicroMaxx system. Should actual failure rates and repair or replacement costs differ from our estimates, additional warranty expense may be incurred and our results may be materially affected. Changes in the healthcare industry could result in a reduction in the size of the market for our products or may require us to decrease the selling price for our products, each of which could have a negative impact on our financial performance. Trends toward managed care, healthcare cost containment, and other changes in government and private sector initiatives in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business are placing increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical therapies, which could adversely affect the sale and/or the prices of our products. For example: Major third-party payers of hospital and pre-hospital services, including Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurers, have substantially revised their payment methodologies during the last few years which has resulted in stricter standards for reimbursement of hospital and pre-hospital charges for certain medical procedures; Numerous legislative proposals have been considered that would result in major reforms in the U.S. and foreign healthcare systems that could have an adverse effect on our business; There has been a consolidation among healthcare facilities and purchasers of medical devices in the U.S. and foreign countries who prefer to limit the number of suppliers from whom they purchase medical products, and these entities may decide to stop purchasing our products or demand discounts on our prices; There is economic pressure to contain healthcare costs in worldwide markets; and 13 There are proposed and existing laws and regulations in domestic and international markets regulating pricing and profitability of companies in the healthcare industry. While we believe that these changes could benefit the sale of lower cost technologies such as ours, these trends could lead to pressure to reduce prices for our products and could cause a decrease in the size of the market or a potential increase in competition that could adversely affect our revenue and profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If healthcare reimbursement policies place limits on which providers may receive payment for imaging services or substantially reduce reimbursement amounts or coverage for specific procedures, we may experience limited market acceptance of our products. Market acceptance of our products depends in part on the extent to which our customers receive reimbursement for the use of our products from third party payers such as Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurers (and equivalent third party payers in foreign countries). Presently, reimbursement policies for physician-performed diagnostic imaging services are fairly unrestricted in the U.S. The continuing efforts of governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare through various means could, however, result in more restricted payment policies for diagnostic imaging. As an example, a Medicare payment policy arising from the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, effective January 1, 2007, caps payments to physician offices and freestanding imaging centers for the technical component of most imaging services. Although reimbursement amounts for most ultrasound procedures were not lowered by this payment policy, vascular ultrasound examinations and ultrasound guidance of needle procedures, such as biopsies, aspirations and injections are now being paid at a lower rate than they were previously. We have not yet seen any impact of these changes on demand for our products. We expect that, as providers become more aware of the reduced payments for those select services, demand will not diminish for our products in existing markets where clinical practice patterns are already well established. However, in markets in which the use of ultrasound is an emerging standard of care, the enactment of this provision has created short-term uncertainty, which may dampen demand for ultrasound equipment. Additionally, some private insurers have implemented imaging privileging programs as a means of controlling utilization of imaging services. For example, Highmark Blue Cross Blue Shield, a private insurer operating in Pennsylvania, requires that providers meet specific criteria in order to receive payment for imaging services provided to its subscribers. These criteria, in some instances, exclude some providers by virtue of their clinical specialty. Other criteria require providers to obtain specific credentials from third party accreditation organizations. As another example, United Healthcare recently announced that providers of echocardiography must be accredited by the American College of Radiology or the Intersocietal Accreditation Commission by March of 2008 in order to continue to receive payment for the provision of these services to their subscribers. In this case, because the policy covers only a limited number of ultrasound services (general ultrasound and non-invasive vascular scanning are not included), the impact of this policy on our business is likely to be limited. In response to rising healthcare costs and the perception that new technologies are a significant contributing factor to the growth in healthcare costs, third party payers are demanding ever higher levels of evidence of clinical efficacy and cost effectiveness in order to provide coverage for new procedures. Third party payers, both governmental and private, are calling for increasing levels of evidence of beneficial clinical outcomes and cost effectiveness in addition to proof of clinical efficacy as a prerequisite to granting coverage for new technologies and devices and new applications of existing technologies. Thus, to the extent that services performed with current or future products that we may bring to market are not described by existing Current Procedural Terminology codes or are not covered under existing coverage policies, there is a risk that reimbursement for these applications may not be attained at all or within a reasonable timeframe. For example, carotid intima media thickness measurement, which is an application of ultrasound performed by our SonoCalc IMT software, is not currently reimbursed by Medicare and is not a part of third party payers’ standard benefits packages. 14 Existing or potential intellectual property claims and litigation may divert our resources and subject us to significant liability for damages, substantial litigation expense and the loss of our proprietary rights. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation. On February 21, 2007, we filed a patent infringement suit against Zonare Medical Systems, Inc. alleging that Zonare infringed one of our key patents through sales of its z.one ultrasound system. On March 14, 2007, Zonare filed an answer to our claim which included a counterclaim against the company alleging that our products infringe its patent related to its portable docking station. In addition, others may initiate patent litigation against us. We may become subject to interference proceedings conducted in patent and trademark offices to determine the priority of inventions. There are numerous issued and pending patents in the ultrasound field. The validity and breadth of medical technology patents may involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles may remain unresolved. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to result in issued patents and are maintained in confidence by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office while pending, there may be pending applications of which we are unaware, which may later result in issued patents that our products may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that one or more of our products may infringe. Litigation may be necessary to: assert or defend against claims of infringement; enforce our issued and licensed patents; protect our trade secrets or know-how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. We may become involved in the defense and prosecution, if necessary, of intellectual property suits, patent interferences, opposition proceedings and other administrative proceedings. For example, since July 24, 2001, we have been defending a patent infringement suit, Neutrino Development Corporation vs. SonoSite, in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas. This case has generated significant legal expenses, diverted management and engineering resources and exposed the company to potentially large liabilities. As described in the section entitled “Patent and Intellectual Property Rights”, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit recently affirmed the lower court’s ruling in SonoSite’s favor in this case, but the plaintiff has indicated his intention to file a petition for a writ of certiorari to the Supreme Court. In summary, involvement in intellectual property claims and litigation could have the following adverse consequences: divert existing management, scientific and financial resources; subject us to significant liabilities; allow our competitors to market competitive products without obtaining a license from us; cause product shipment delays and lost sales; require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all; or force us to modify or discontinue selling our products, or to develop new products. 15 Our operations are subject to currency fluctuation and other risks associated with doing business outside the United States. The percentage of our revenue originating outside the U.S. equaled 48%, 46% and 47% for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. Total sales for the year ended December 31, 2006 denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars (“USDs”) were $49.0 million, or 29% of total consolidated revenues. Our revenue from international sales may be adversely affected by any of the following risks: currency rate fluctuations; adverse political or economic conditions; reduced protection for intellectual property rights; difficulty managing and overseeing international employees from the U.S.; difficulty enforcing company policies and internal controls in international operations; longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in receivables collection; localizing products for foreign markets; and compliance with export laws, including license requirements, trade restrictions and tariff increases. As of December 31, 2006, 56% of our outstanding accounts receivable balance was from international customers, of which 55%, or $16.2 million, was denominated in a currency other than USDs. We regularly review our receivable positions in foreign countries for any indication that collection may be at risk. We have used and may continue to use forward foreign exchange contracts and other instruments to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations from intercompany receivable balances denominated in foreign currencies, and we may not be able to reduce this exposure successfully. Accordingly, we may experience economic loss and a negative impact on our results of operations and equity as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our reliance on a single manufacturing facility may impair our ability to respond to natural disasters or other unforeseen catastrophic events. Our manufacturing facilities are located in two buildings in Bothell, Washington, in close proximity to each other. Despite precautions taken by us, a natural disaster such as an earthquake or other unanticipated catastrophic events at this location could significantly impair our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business. Our facilities and certain manufacturing equipment would be difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. Such catastrophic events may also destroy any inventory of product or components. While we carry insurance for natural disasters and business interruption for our Bothell facilities, the occurrence of such an event could result in losses that exceed the amount of our insurance coverage, which would impair our financial results. We, or our independent registered public accounting firm, may determine that we have material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We dedicated a significant amount of time and resources to ensure compliance with this legislation for the year December 31, 2006 and will continue to do so for future fiscal periods. We may encounter problems or delays in completing the review and evaluation, the implementation of improvements and the receipt of a positive attestation, or any attestation at all, by our independent auditors. Additionally, management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting may identify deficiencies that need to be addressed in our internal controls over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. As a part of the annual audit of our internal controls over financial reporting and our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006, we identified a material weakness regarding the level of resources and expertise for preparation and review of our tax provision. As of December 31, 2006, we did not have the appropriate level of expertise to properly prepare and review our accounting for income taxes. As a result of this deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting, we did not detect errors in the measurement of income tax amounts as of and for the year ended December 31, 2006. Because of this material weakness, our management concluded that, as of December 31, 2006, we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting based on those criteria. As a result, KPMG LLP has issued an adverse opinion with respect to our internal controls over financial reporting and their report is included in this Form 10-K. Should we, or our independent auditors, determine in future fiscal periods that we have additional material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, our results of operations or financial condition may be materially adversely affected and the price of our common stock may decline. 16 We have a history of losses and we may incur losses in the future. We have incurred net losses in each fiscal year since we commenced operations, with the exception of $7.2 million, $5.4 million and $23.0 million of net income reported during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $51.8 million. We may be unable to sustain or increase future profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Although we expect to achieve profitability in future periods, we may incur losses if we cannot increase or sustain our revenue. We expect that our operating expenses will increase in the foreseeable future as we expand our product development activities, our sales and marketing infrastructure, our administrative support and our product offerings. Our expansion efforts, to be successful, may require more funding than we currently anticipate. Accordingly, we will need to generate significant additional revenue in the future before we will be able to sustain or increase profitability. If we cannot generate such revenue, we may not be profitable. If we fail to achieve sustained profitability, the market price for our common stock will likely fall. If our suppliers, including our single-source suppliers, fail to supply us with the components that we need to manufacture our products on a timely basis, we could experience production delays, cost increases and lost sales. We depend on suppliers, including some single-source suppliers, to provide highly specialized parts, such as custom-designed integrated circuits, cable assemblies and transducer components. We also depend on single-source suppliers to provide other components, such as image displays, batteries, capacitors and cables. We do not maintain significant inventories of certain components, and may experience an interruption of supply if a supplier is unable or unwilling to meet our time, quantity and quality requirements. There are relatively few alternative sources of supply for some of these components. An increase in demand for some parts by other companies could also interrupt our supply of components. We have in the past experienced supply problems in timeliness and quality, but to date these problems have not resulted in lost sales or lower demand. Nevertheless, if we experience an interruption of supply or are required to switch suppliers, the manufacture and delivery of our products could be interrupted, our manufacturing costs could substantially increase and we could lose substantial amounts of product sales. In addition, our circuit boards are produced by one of the world’s largest electronic manufacturing services suppliers who produce the boards in their Thailand manufacturing facility. If we experience delays in the receipt or deterioration in product yields of these components, we may experience delays in manufacturing or an increase in costs resulting in lost sales or a deterioration in gross margin. A failure to manage our growth could impair our ability to achieve our business objectives. We have experienced rapid growth since our inception as a stand-alone company in 1998. Our revenue increased to $171.1 million in 2006 from $147.5 million in 2005 and $115.8 million in 2004. We expect continued significant growth as we continue to develop, manufacture, market and sell our products. Our growth could strain our existing management, operational and financial resources. In order to manage our growth effectively, we will need to expand our manufacturing and quality assurance staff, our sales staff and our international support staff. In addition, we will need to improve the productivity and efficiency of our existing operational, financial and management resources and information systems. Any problems in successfully completing this upgrade may impact our operations and perhaps our financial results. We may be unable to hire and retain the personnel necessary to operate and expand our business. We also may be unable to increase the productivity and efficiency of our existing resources. If we fail to timely improve or augment our existing resources in response to our growth, we may be unable to effectively manage our business and achieve our objectives. Our consolidated effective income tax rate will fluctuate depending upon the mix of our U.S. operations and our international operations. Additionally, utilization of our deferred tax assets may be limited and is dependent on future taxable income. In the fourth quarter of 2004, deferred tax assets relating to our U.S. operations were recognized on our balance sheet resulting in a non-recurring income tax benefit. Prior to this time, we provided a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. The deferred tax assets primarily represent the income tax benefit of U.S. NOLs we have incurred since inception. As required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” (“SFAS 109”), we did not recognize any tax assets on our balance sheet until it was “more likely than not” that the tax assets related to our U.S. operations would be realized on future tax returns. Based upon a review of historical operating performance through 2006, and our expectation that we will generate U.S. profitability for the foreseeable future, we continue to believe it is more likely than not that the U.S. deferred tax assets will be fully realized. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we reversed our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets resulting from our international operations because we have demonstrated their profitability and our expectation is that they will generate profitability for the foreseeable future. The amount of foreign deferred tax assets recorded in 2006 was limited to the amount we believe is probable of being sustained under audit by foreign taxing authorities and excluded deferred tax assets that are uncertain of being realized. Until it is more likely than not that the remaining tax assets will be realized in future tax returns, we will not further record any tax assets related to our international operations. As a result of these factors and uncertainties, our consolidated effective income tax rate may continue to fluctuate. 17 We re-evaluate our ability to utilize our NOL and tax credit carryforwards in future periods and, in compliance with SFAS 109, record any resulting adjustments that may be required to deferred income tax expense. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 contains provisions under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code that limit the federal NOL carryforwards that may be used in any given year in the event of specified occurrences, including significant ownership changes. If these specified events occur, we may lose some or all of the tax benefits of these carryforwards. In addition, we will reduce the deferred income tax asset for the benefits of NOL and tax credit carryforwards actually used in future quarters. Therefore, if we generate profits, we will record the related income tax expense for financial reporting purposes based on a blended federal, state and foreign rate applied to income by jurisdiction. While this tax expense will reduce net income, no cash will be paid for income taxes, other than required alternative minimum tax, state and foreign tax payments, until the NOL and tax credits have been fully utilized. If in the future we determine, based on our assessment of both positive and negative evidence and objective and subjective evidence, which takes into consideration our forecasted taxable income, that it is more likely than not that we will not realize all or a portion of the deferred tax assets, we will increase the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets which would result in a charge to income tax expense. Our distributors may be unwilling or unable to devote sufficient resources to market and sell our products, which could delay or reduce market acceptance and sales of our products. We currently depend on distributors to help promote market acceptance and demand for our products in countries in which we do not have a direct sales force and in certain U.S. markets. Distributors that are in the business of distributing other medical products may not devote the resources and support required to generate awareness of our products and grow or maintain product sales. If these distributors are unwilling or unable to market and sell our products, we could experience delayed or reduced market acceptance and sales of our products. In addition, if our foreign distributors fail to pay us, or fail to pay us in a timely manner, for the products they have purchased, it may be difficult to recover such monies in a foreign court or proceeding, thereby resulting in the write-off of amounts owed to us. In addition, disagreements with our distributors or nonperformance by distributors could lead to costly and time-consuming litigation or arbitration and disrupt distribution channels for a period of time and require us to re-establish a distribution channel. For example, in May 2005, we arbitrated a dispute with our former distributor in the veterinary market in which the arbitration panel unanimously found in our favor. The loss of key employees could impair our ability to achieve our business objectives. Our success depends heavily on our ability to retain the services of certain key employees. Competition among medical device companies for qualified employees is intense. We may fail to retain these key employees, and we may fail to attract qualified replacements if they do leave. We do not maintain key-person insurance on any of our employees. We do not have employment agreements with any of our employees except for employees in certain countries outside the U.S. and change in control agreements with certain members of senior management. The loss of any of our key employees could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our product development or business objectives. 18 If we, or our suppliers, fail to comply with U.S. and foreign governmental regulations applicable to our products and manufacturing practices, we could experience product introduction delays, production delays, cost increases and lost sales. Our products, our manufacturing and marketing activities, and the manufacturing activities of our third-party medical device manufacturers are subject to extensive regulation by a number of governmental agencies, including the FDA and comparable international agencies. Our third-party manufacturers and we are or may be required to: obtain prior clearance or approval from these agencies before we can market and sell our products; undergo rigorous inspections by domestic and international agencies; and satisfy content requirements for all of our sales and promotional materials. The processes for obtaining regulatory approval can be lengthy and expensive, and the results are unpredictable. If we are unable to obtain clearances or approvals needed to market existing or new products, or obtain such clearances or approvals in a timely manner, it could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Moreover, clearances and approvals, if granted, may limit the uses for which a product may be marketed, which could reduce or eliminate the commercial benefit of manufacturing any such product. To ensure that manufacturers adhere to good manufacturing practices, medical device manufacturers are routinely subject to periodic inspections by the FDA and may be inspected by foreign regulatory agencies from countries in which we do business. In addition, the BSI performs periodic assessments of our manufacturing processes and quality system. Compliance with the regulations of various agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, may require us to incur substantial costs and may delay or prevent the introduction of new or improved products. Although to date these actions by regulatory bodies have not required us to incur substantial costs or delay product shipments, we expect to experience further inspections and incur additional costs as a result of governmental regulation. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action, including product recall, the issuance of fines, injunctions, civil and criminal penalties, detaining or banning our products, and operating restrictions. Our third-party medical device manufacturers may also be subject to the same sanctions if they fail to comply with the laws and regulations and, as a result, may fail to supply us with components required to manufacture our products. If we are unable to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to compete effectively. Much of our value arises out of our proprietary technology and intellectual property for the design, manufacture and use of point-of-care ultrasound imaging systems. Our success and ability to compete effectively depend on our ability to protect our proprietary information. We rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws to protect our proprietary technology and limit the ability of others to compete with us using the same or similar technology. We currently hold 44 patents relating to our technology. A number of other patents are pending in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. Additionally, we have a license from ATL to use certain ATL technology and ATL technological developments in our hand-carried products. This license was exclusive through April 5, 2003, and became nonexclusive after that date. We also enter into confidentiality and invention ownership agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and generally control access to, and the distribution of, our product designs, documentation and other proprietary information, as well as the designs, documentation and other information that we license from others. Our efforts afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights to the extent necessary to sustain any competitive advantage we may have. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, we may experience: unauthorized use of our technology by competitors; independent development of the same or similar technology by a competitor, coupled with a lack of enforceable patents on our part; failure of our pending patent applications to result in issued patents; 19 successful interference actions to our patents, successful patent infringement lawsuits or successful oppositions to our patents and patent applications; unauthorized disclosure or use of our proprietary information by former employees or affiliates; and failure by our commercial partners to comply with their obligations to share technology or use our technology in a limited manner. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property will be difficult and may be cost-prohibitive. We may fail to prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. If we cannot prevent other companies from using our proprietary technology or if our patents are found invalid or otherwise unenforceable, we may be unable to compete effectively against other manufacturers of ultrasound systems, which could decrease our market share. If our stock price continues to be volatile, your shares may decline in value. The market price for our common stock, as well as for securities of emerging growth companies generally, has been volatile in the past and is likely to continue to be volatile. You may be unable to resell your shares at or above the price you paid due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: the difference between quarterly operating results and those expected by investors or securities analysts; changes in earnings estimates by analysts; announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors; our involvement in intellectual property claims or litigation; changes in the structure of healthcare financing and payment systems; general conditions in the medical industry or global economy; a lack of liquidity in the market for our stock; and a significant sale or sales of our common stock by one or more of our shareholders. Product liability and other claims and product field actions could increase our costs, delay or reduce our sales and damage our reputation, which could significantly impair our financial condition. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability, malpractice or warranty claims inherent in the sale and support of medical device products, including those based on claims that the use or failure of one of our products resulted in a misdiagnosis or harm to a patient. Such claims may cause financial loss, damage our reputation by raising questions about our products’ safety and efficacy, and could interfere with our efforts to market our products. Although to date we have not been involved in any medical malpractice or product liability litigation, we may incur significant liability if such litigation were to occur. We may also face adverse publicity resulting from product field actions or regulatory proceedings brought against us. Although we currently maintain liability insurance in amounts we believe are commercially reasonable, any product liability we incur may exceed our insurance coverage. Liability insurance is expensive and may cease to be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A product liability or other claim or product field action not covered by our insurance or exceeding our coverage could significantly impair our financial condition. In addition, a product field action or a liability claim against us could significantly harm our reputation and make it more difficult to obtain the funding and commercial relationships necessary to maintain our business. Our efforts to integrate the business and technology of any future acquisition, even if successful, may result in significant costs or create significant disruptions that outweigh the benefits of any such acquisition. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire other companies, products or technologies. We may fail in our attempt to successfully integrate into our business the operations, technology, products, customers, suppliers and personnel of any such acquired business or technology. Even if integration is successful, any such acquisition may include costs for: integration of operations, including combining teams and processes in various functional areas; market acceptance and integration of new technology into our products; additional costs including fees and expenses of professionals involved in completing the integration process; and potential existing liabilities of any future acquisition target. 20 Additionally, our efforts to consummate an acquisition or to successfully integrate any such acquisition could place a significant burden on our management and internal resources and disrupt our business. If we fail in our attempts to integrate any acquired business or technology, or if the costs and burdens of such acquisition or integration outweigh the benefits of such acquisition, our financial resources or financial results could be impaired. Our future capital-raising activities or acquisition of businesses or assets could involve the issuance of equity securities, which would dilute your investment and could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. To meet our long-term funding requirements, we may sell securities in the public or private equity or debt markets if and when conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. Furthermore, we may enter into financing transactions at prices that represent a substantial discount to market price. In addition, we may issue a significant amount of our securities in connection with our purchase of, or strategic investment in, other businesses or assets. Raising funds or paying for acquisitions through the issuance of equity securities will dilute the ownership of our existing shareholders. A negative reaction by investors and securities analysts to any sale or issuance of our equity securities could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. The concentrated ownership of our common stock could delay or prevent a change of control, which could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2006, our executive officers, directors and affiliated entities together beneficially owned 5.6% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Based on currently available information, fourteen other shareholders owned in the aggregate 49.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, these shareholders or any other concentrated owner may be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, matters relating to the attraction and retention of employees, such as stock option plans, and approval of significant corporate transactions that could include certain matters relating to future financing arrangements and unsolicited tender offers. This concentration of ownership may delay, deter or prevent a third party from acquiring control over us at a premium over the then-current market price of our common stock, which could result in a decline in our stock price. The termination or other loss of our license to use certain ATL technology would significantly impair our ability to manufacture, market and sell our products. We license certain technology from ATL that is incorporated into our single technology platform, and we use this ATL technology in all of our HCU systems. Virtually all of our revenue is attributable to products incorporating this ATL technology. ATL may terminate our license in the event of an uncured material default by us in our obligations under the license agreement. Although many key aspects of our technology platform, including the high level of miniaturization that allows us to manufacture our systems, are independently owned by us under the terms of our spin-off from ATL, the termination or other loss of our license to use ATL technology would significantly impair our ability to manufacture, market and sell our products. If this license is terminated, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to maintain our business. Our restated articles of incorporation, our bylaws, Washington law and some of our agreements contain provisions that could discourage a takeover and prevent shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares. There are provisions in our restated articles of incorporation, our bylaws and Washington law that make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. Additionally, our acquisition may be made more difficult or expensive by the following: acceleration provisions in benefit plans and change-in-control agreements with our employees; and our shareholder rights plan, which is designed to dilute a hostile acquiror’s interest so that the acquisition becomes prohibitively expensive. Under our rights plan, each of our shareholders has one share purchase right for each share of common stock held, with each right having an exercise price approximating our board of directors’ estimate of the long-term value of one share of our common stock. The rights are triggered if an acquiror acquires, or successfully makes a tender offer for, 20% or more of our outstanding common stock. In such event, each shareholder other than the acquiror would have the right to purchase, at the exercise price, a number of newly issued shares of our capital stock at a 50% discount. If the acquiror were to acquire 50% or more of our assets or earning power, each shareholder would have the right to purchase, at the exercise price, a number of shares of acquiror’s stock at a 50% discount. Our board of directors may redeem the rights at a nominal cost at any time before a person acquires 20% or more of our outstanding common stock, which allows board-approved transactions to proceed. In addition, our board of directors may exchange all or part of the rights (other than rights held by the acquiror) for such number of shares of our common stock equal in value to the exercise price. Such an exchange produces the desired dilution without actually requiring our shareholders to purchase shares. 21 If we incur a tax liability in connection with our spin-off from ATL, we would be required to pay a potentially significant expense, which would diminish our financial resources. Our spin-off was treated by ATL as a tax-free spin-off under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. If ATL were to recognize taxable gain from the spin-off, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) could impose that liability on any member of the ATL consolidated group as constituted prior to the spin-off, including us. Generally, the IRS may assert that our spin-off from ATL is a taxable transaction until the expiration of the statute of limitations applicable to ATL with respect to the spin-off transaction. The expiration of the statute of limitations with respect to the spin-off transaction depends upon the actions and tax filings of ATL and the special rules applicable to spin-offs in general, which special rules could result in the extension of the general statute of limitations for an indefinite period of time. In the event of a tax liability, ATL has agreed to cover 85% of any such liability, unless the tax is imposed due to our actions solely or by ATL solely, in which case, we have agreed with ATL that the party who is solely at fault shall bear all of the tax liability. We are unaware of any actions that would result in a tax liability to us under the indemnity agreement regarding the spin-off transaction. We are aware that ATL was acquired in a transaction subsequent to the spin-off transaction, which could potentially result in the spin-off being treated as a taxable transaction, but which resulting tax liability in our view would be the sole responsibility of ATL pursuant to our agreement with ATL. ATL may refuse, however, to indemnify us for a tax liability arising out of the spin-off transaction or may argue that it did not cause the tax liability to be imposed. In such event, we may incur a significant expense for all or a portion of the taxes related to the spin-off. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS None. 