Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, the occurrence of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to stockholders and could cause the value of our capital stock to decline. General. Our business and operations are affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, and primarily depend on, among other things, the level of our net interest income, the market value of our assets, the supply of, and demand for, MBS in the market place and the availability of acceptable financing. Our net interest income varies primarily as a result of changes in interest rates, the slope of the yield curve (i.e., the differential between long-term and short-term interest rates), borrowing costs (i.e., interest expense) and prepayment speeds on our MBS portfolio, the behavior of which involves various risks and uncertainties. Interest rates and prepayment speeds, as measured by the constant prepayment rate (or CPR), vary according to the type of investment, conditions in the financial markets, competition and other factors, none of which can be predicted with any certainty. Our operating results also depend upon our ability to effectively manage the risks associated with our business operations, including interest rate, prepayment, financing and credit risks, while maintaining our qualification as a REIT. In addition to our Agency MBS, we face risks inherent in our other assets, comprised of Senior MBS, other non-Agency MBS and an indirect 100% interest in a multi-family apartment property. Although these other assets represent a small portion of our total assets, 2.0% at December 31, 2008, they have the potential of materially impacting our operating performance in future periods if such assets were to become impaired. Risks Associated With Recent Adverse Developments in the Mortgage Finance and Credit Markets Volatile market conditions for mortgages and mortgage-related assets as well as the broader financial markets have resulted in a significant contraction in liquidity for mortgages and mortgage-related assets, which may adversely affect the value of the assets in which we invest. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the markets for mortgages and mortgage-related assets, including MBS, as well as the broader financial markets and the economy generally. Beginning in the summer of 2007, significant adverse changes in financial market conditions have resulted in a deleveraging of the entire global financial system and the forced sale of large quantities of mortgage-related and other financial assets. Recently, concerns over economic recession, geopolitical issues, unemployment, the availability and cost of financing, the mortgage market and a declining real estate market have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and markets. As a result of these conditions, many traditional mortgage investors have suffered severe losses in their residential mortgage portfolios and several major market participants have failed or been impaired, resulting in a significant contraction in market liquidity for mortgage-related assets. This illiquidity has negatively affected both the terms and availability of financing for all mortgage-related assets. Further increased volatility and deterioration in the markets for mortgages and mortgage-related assets as well as the broader financial markets may adversely affect the performance and market value of our investment securities. If these conditions persist, institutions from which we seek financing for our investments may continue to tighten their lending standards or become insolvent, which could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. Our profitability may be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain cost-effective financing for our investments. The federal conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and related efforts, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. Government, may adversely affect our business. The payments of principal and interest we receive on our Agency MBS, which depend directly upon payments on the ARMs underlying such securities, are guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are U.S. Government-sponsored entities (or GSEs), but their guarantees are not backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. Ginnie Mae is part of a U.S. Government agency and its guarantees are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. 5 In response to general market instability and, more specifically, the financial conditions of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, on July 30, 2008, the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (or the HERA) established a new regulator for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the U.S. Federal Housing Finance Agency (or the FHFA). On September 7, 2008, the U.S. Treasury, the FHFA, and the U.S. Federal Reserve announced a comprehensive action plan to help stabilize the financial markets, support the availability of mortgage finance and protect taxpayers. Under this plan, among other things, the FHFA has been appointed as conservator of both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, allowing the FHFA to control the actions of the two GSEs, without forcing them to liquidate, which would be the case under receivership. Importantly, the primary focus of the plan is to increase the availability of mortgage financing by allowing these GSEs to continue to grow their guarantee business without limit, while limiting net purchases of Agency MBS to a modest amount through the end of 2009. Beginning in 2010, these GSEs will gradually reduce their Agency MBS portfolios. In addition, in an effort to further stabilize the U.S. mortgage market, the U.S. Treasury took three additional actions. First, it entered into a preferred stock purchase agreement with each of the GSEs, pursuant to which $100 billion will be available to each GSE. Second, it established a new secured credit facility, available to each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (as well as Federal Home Loan Banks) through December 31, 2009, when other funding sources are unavailable. Third, it established an Agency MBS purchase program, under which the U.S. Treasury may purchase Agency MBS in the open market. This Agency MBS purchase program will also expire on December 31, 2009. Initially, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac each issued $1.0 billion of senior preferred stock to the U.S. Treasury and warrants to purchase 79.9% of the fully-diluted common stock outstanding of each GSE at a nominal exercise price. Pursuant to these agreements, each of Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s mortgage and Agency MBS portfolio may not exceed $850 billion as of December 31, 2009, and will decline by 10% each year until such portfolio reaches $250 billion. After reporting a substantial loss in the third quarter of 2008, Freddie Mac requested a capital injection of $13.8 billion by the U.S. Treasury pursuant to its preferred stock purchase agreement. Although the U.S. Government has committed capital to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, there can be no assurance that these actions will be adequate for their needs. These uncertainties lead to questions about the future of the GSEs in their current form, or at all, and the availability of, and trading market for, Agency MBS. Despite the steps taken by the U.S. Government, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could default on their guarantee obligations which would materially and adversely affect the value of our Agency MBS. Accordingly, if these government actions are inadequate and the GSEs continue to suffer losses or cease to exist, our business, operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, the size and timing of the U.S. Government’s Agency MBS purchase program is subject to the discretion of the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, who has indicated that the scale of the program will be based on developments in the capital markets and housing markets. Purchases under this program have already begun, but there is no certainty that the U.S. Treasury will continue to purchase additional Agency MBS in the future. The U.S. Treasury can hold its portfolio of Agency MBS to maturity and, based on mortgage market conditions, may make adjustments to the portfolio. This flexibility may adversely affect the pricing and availability of Agency MBS in the market. It is also possible that the U.S. Treasury’s commitment to purchase Agency MBS in the future could create additional demand that would negatively affect the pricing of the Agency MBS that we seek to acquire. The U.S. Treasury could also stop providing credit support to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the future. The U.S. Treasury’s authority to purchase Agency MBS and to provide financial support to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac under the HERA expires on December 31, 2009. The problems faced by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac resulting in their being placed into federal conservatorship have stirred debate among some federal policy makers regarding the continued role of the U.S. Government in providing liquidity for mortgage loans. Following expiration of the current authorization, each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be dissolved and the U.S. Government could determine to stop providing liquidity support of any kind to the mortgage market. The future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be significantly reduced and the nature of their guarantee obligations could be considerably limited relative to historical measurements. Any changes to the nature of their guarantee obligations could redefine what constitutes an Agency MBS and could have broad adverse implications for the market and our business, operations and financial condition. If Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac were eliminated, or their structures were to change radically (i.e., limitation or removal of the guarantee obligation), we may be unable to acquire additional Agency MBS and our existing Agency MBS could be materially and adversely impacted. We could be negatively affected in a number of ways depending on the manner in which related events unfold for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. We rely on our Agency MBS as collateral for our financings under our repurchase agreements. Any decline in their value, or perceived market uncertainty about their value, would make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on acceptable terms or at all, or to maintain our compliance with the terms of any financing transactions. Further, the current credit support provided by the U.S. Treasury to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and any additional credit support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rates we expect to receive from Agency MBS, thereby tightening the spread between the interest we earn on our Agency MBS and the cost of financing those assets. A reduction in the supply of Agency MBS could also negatively affect the pricing of Agency MBS by reducing the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of Agency MBS and our cost of financing that portfolio. 6 As indicated above, recent legislation has changed the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. Government and requires Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to reduce the amount of mortgage loans they own or for which they provide guarantees on Agency MBS. Future legislation could further change the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. Government, and could also nationalize or eliminate such entities entirely. Any law affecting these GSEs may create market uncertainty and have the effect of reducing the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. As a result, such laws could increase the risk of loss on investments in Agency MBS guaranteed by Fannie Mae and/or Freddie Mac. It also is possible that such laws could adversely impact the market for such securities and spreads at which they trade. All of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the actions taken by the U.S. and foreign governments, central banks and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of seeking to stabilize the financial markets will achieve the intended effect or benefit our business and further government or market developments could adversely affect us. In response to the financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (or EESA), was enacted by the U.S. Congress. The EESA provides the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury with the authority to establish a Troubled Asset Relief Program (or TARP) to purchase from financial institutions up to $700 billion of residential or commercial mortgages and any securities, obligations, or other instruments that are based on or related to such mortgages, that in each case was originated or issued on or before March 14, 2008. In addition, under TARP, the U.S. Treasury, after consultation with the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, may purchase any other financial instrument deemed necessary to promote financial market stability, upon transmittal of such determination, in writing, to the appropriate committees of the U.S. Congress. EESA also provides for a program that would allow companies to insure their troubled assets. In November 2008, after using a significant portion of the funds available under TARP to make preferred equity investments in certain financial institutions, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury announced that following enactment of EESA, the U.S. Treasury had continued to examine the relative benefits of purchasing illiquid mortgage-related assets and had determined that its assessment at that time was that such purchases were not the most effective way to use limited TARP funds. However, the U.S. Treasury will continue to examine whether targeted forms of asset purchase can play a useful role, relative to other potential uses of TARP resources. On November 25, 2008, the Federal Reserve announced that it would initiate a program to purchase $100 billion in direct obligations of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks and $500 billion in Agency MBS. The Federal Reserve stated that its actions are intended to reduce the cost and increase the availability of credit for the purchase of houses, which in turn should support housing markets and foster improved conditions in financial markets more generally. The purchases of direct obligations began during the first week of December 2008 and purchases of residential MBS began on January 5, 2009. There can be no assurance that the EESA or the Federal Reserve’s actions will have a beneficial impact on the financial markets. To the extent the markets do not respond favorably to TARP or TARP does not function as intended, our business may not receive the anticipated positive impact from the legislation and such result may have broad adverse market implications. In addition, U.S. and foreign governments, central banks and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur or what affect, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 7 Mortgage loan modification programs and future legislative action may adversely affect the value of, and the returns, on our MBS. The U.S. Government, through the Federal Housing Authority and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (or FDIC) commenced implementation of programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures. These programs may involve, among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans or the rate of interest payable on the loans, or to extend the payment terms of the loans. In addition, members of the U.S. Congress have indicated support for additional legislative relief for homeowners, including an amendment of the bankruptcy laws to permit the modification of mortgage loans in bankruptcy proceedings. These loan modification programs, as well as future legislative or regulatory actions, including amendments to the bankruptcy laws, that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, our MBS. Prepayment rates on the mortgage loans underlying our MBS may adversely affect our profitability. The MBS that we acquire are primarily secured by pools of ARMs on residential properties. In general, the ARMs collateralizing our MBS may be prepaid at any time without penalty. Prepayments on our MBS result when homeowners/mortgagees satisfy (i.e., payoff) the mortgage upon selling or refinancing their mortgaged property. In addition, because our MBS are primarily Agency MBS, defaults and foreclosures typically have the same effect as prepayments because of the underlying agency guarantee. When we acquire a particular MBS, we anticipate that the underlying mortgage loans will prepay at a projected rate which provides us with an expected yield on such MBS. When mortgagees prepay their mortgage loans faster than anticipated, it results in a faster prepayment rate on the related MBS in our portfolio, which may adversely affect our profitability. Prepayment rates generally increase when interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Prepayment rates also may be affected by conditions in the housing and financial markets, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on fixed-rate mortgage loans and ARMs. We often purchase MBS that have a higher interest rate than the prevailing market interest rate. In exchange for a higher interest rate, we typically pay a premium over par value to acquire these securities. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (or GAAP), we amortize the premiums on our MBS over the life of the related MBS. If the mortgage loans securing our MBS prepay at a rapid rate, we will have to amortize our premiums on an accelerated basis which may adversely affect our profitability. As of December 31, 2008, we had net purchase premiums of $125.0 million, or 1.3% of current par value, on our Agency MBS and net purchase discounts of $11.7 million, or 3.4% of current par value, on our non-Agency MBS. Prepayments, which are the primary feature of MBS that distinguish them from other types of bonds, are difficult to predict and can vary significantly over time. As the holder of MBS, on a monthly basis, we receive a payment equal to a portion of our investment principal in a particular MBS as the underlying mortgages are prepaid. With respect to our Agency MBS, we typically receive notice of monthly principal prepayments on the fifth business day of each month (such day is commonly referred to as factor day) and receive the related scheduled payment on a specified later date, which for (a) Agency MBS guaranteed by Fannie Mae is the 25th day of that month (or next business day thereafter), (b) Agency MBS guaranteed by Freddie Mac is the 15th day of the following month (or next business day thereafter), and (c) Agency MBS guaranteed by Ginnie Mae is the 20th day of that month (or next business day thereafter). With respect to our non-Agency MBS, we typically receive notice of monthly principal prepayments and the related scheduled payment on the 25th day of each month (or next business day thereafter). In general, on the date each month that principal prepayments are announced (i.e., factor day for Agency MBS), the value of our MBS pledged as collateral under our repurchase agreements is reduced by the amount of the prepaid principal and, as a result, our lenders will typically initiate a margin call requiring the pledge of additional collateral or cash, in an amount equal to such prepaid principal, in order to re-establish the required ratio of borrowing to collateral value under such repurchase agreements. Accordingly, with respect to our Agency MBS, the announcement on factor day of principal prepayments is in advance of our receipt of the related scheduled payment, thereby creating a short-term receivable for us in the amount of any such principal prepayments; however, under our repurchase agreements, we may receive a margin call relating to the related reduction in value of our Agency MBS and, prior to receipt of this short-term receivable, be required to post collateral or cash in the amount of the principal prepayment on or about factor day, which would reduce our liquidity during the period in which the short-term receivable was outstanding. As a result, in order to meet any such margin calls, we could be forced to sell assets in order to maintain liquidity. Forced sales under adverse market conditions may result in lower sales prices than ordinary market sales made in the normal course of business. If our MBS were liquidated at prices below our amortized cost (i.e., the carrying value) of such assets, we would incur losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. In addition, in order to continue to earn a return on this prepaid principal, we must reinvest it in additional MBS or other assets; however, if interest rates decline, we may earn a lower return on our new investments as compared to the MBS that prepay. 8 Prepayments may have a negative impact on our financial results, the effects of which depends on, among other things, the timing and amount of the prepayment delay on our Agency MBS, the amount of unamortized premium on our prepaid MBS, the reinvestment lag and the availability of suitable reinvestment opportunities. Our business strategy involves a significant amount of leverage which may adversely affect our return on our investments and may reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders as well as increase losses when economic conditions are unfavorable. Pursuant to our leverage strategy, we borrow against a substantial portion of the market value of our MBS and use the borrowed funds to finance the acquisition of additional investment assets. We are not required to maintain any particular assets-to-equity ratio. Future increases in the amount by which the collateral value is required to contractually exceed the repurchase transaction loan amount, decreases in the market value of our MBS, increases in interest rate volatility and changes in the availability of acceptable financing could cause us to be unable to achieve the degree of leverage we believe to be optimal. Our return on our assets and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions prevent us from leveraging our investments or cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income earned on our leveraged assets. In addition, our payment of interest expense on our borrowings will reduce cash flow available for distributions to our stockholders. If the interest income on our MBS purchased with borrowed funds fails to cover the interest expense of the related borrowings, we will experience net interest losses and may experience net losses from operations. Such losses could be significant as a result of our leveraged structure. The use of borrowing, or “leverage,” to finance our MBS and other assets involves a number of other risks, including the following: • Adverse developments involving major financial institutions or involving one of our lenders could result in a rapid reduction in our ability to borrow and adversely affect our business and profitability. Although as of December 31, 2008 we had amounts outstanding under repurchase agreements with 19 separate lenders and continue to develop new relationships with additional lenders, recent turmoil in the financial markets as it relates to major financial institutions has raised concerns that a material adverse development involving one or more major financial institutions or the financial markets in general could result in our lenders reducing our access to funds available under our repurchase agreements. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant asset write-downs by financial institutions, which have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with other institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Institutions from which we seek to obtain financing may have owned or financed residential mortgage loans, real estate-related securities and real estate loans which have declined in value and caused losses as a result of the recent downturn in the markets. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. If these conditions persist, these institutions may become insolvent or tighten their lending standards, which could make it more difficult for us to obtain acceptable financing or at all. Because all of our repurchase agreements are uncommitted and renewable at the discretion of our lenders, these conditions could cause our lenders to determine to reduce or terminate our access to future borrowings, which could adversely affect our business and profitability. Furthermore, if a number of our lenders became unwilling or unable to continue to provide us with financing, we could be forced to sell assets, including MBS in an unrealized loss position, in order to maintain liquidity. Forced sales under adverse market conditions may result in lower sales prices than ordinary market sales made in the normal course of business. If our MBS were liquidated at prices below our amortized cost (i.e., the carrying value) of such assets, we would incur losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. 9 • Our profitability may be limited by a reduction in our leverage. As long as we earn a positive spread between interest and other income we earn on our assets and our borrowing costs, we can generally increase our profitability by using greater amounts of leverage. We cannot, however, assure you that repurchase financing will remain an efficient source of long-term financing for our assets. The amount of leverage that we use may be limited because our lenders might not make funding available to us at acceptable rates or they may require that we provide additional collateral to secure our borrowings. If our financing strategy is not viable, we will have to find alternative forms of financing for our assets which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at acceptable rates. In addition, in response to certain interest rate and investment environments or to changes in market liquidity, we could adopt a strategy of reducing our leverage by selling assets or not reinvesting principal payments as MBS amortize and/or prepay, thereby decreasing the outstanding amount of our related borrowings. Such an action could reduce interest income, interest expense and net income, the extent of which would be dependent on the level of reduction in assets and liabilities as well as the sale prices for which the assets were sold. • If we are unable to renew our borrowings at favorable rates, it may force us to sell assets and our profitability may be adversely affected. Since we rely primarily on borrowings under repurchase agreements to finance our MBS, our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends on our ability to borrow funds in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms and on our ability to renew or replace maturing borrowings on a continuous basis. Our repurchase agreement credit lines are renewable at the discretion of our lenders and, as such, do not contain guaranteed roll-over terms. Our ability to enter into repurchase transactions in the future will depend on the market value of our MBS pledged to secure the specific borrowings, the availability of acceptable financing and market liquidity and other conditions existing in the lending market at that time. If we are not able to renew or replace maturing borrowings, we could be forced to sell assets, including MBS in an unrealized loss position, in order to maintain liquidity. Forced sales under adverse market conditions may result in lower sales prices than ordinary market sales made in the normal course of business. If our MBS were liquidated at prices below our amortized cost (i.e., the carrying value) of such assets, we would incur losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. • A decline in the market value of our assets may result in margin calls that may force us to sell assets under adverse market conditions. In general, the market value of our MBS is impacted by changes in interest rates, prevailing market yields and other market conditions. A decline in the market value of our MBS may limit our ability to borrow against such assets or result in lenders initiating margin calls, which require a pledge of additional collateral or cash to re-establish the required ratio of borrowing to collateral value, under our repurchase agreements. Posting additional collateral or cash to support our credit will reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets, which could adversely affect our business. As a result, we could be forced to sell some of our assets, including MBS in an unrealized loss position, in order to maintain liquidity. Forced sales under adverse market conditions may result in lower sales prices than ordinary market sales made in the normal course of business. If our MBS were liquidated at prices below our amortized cost (i.e., the carrying value) of such assets, we would incur losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. • If a counterparty to our repurchase transactions defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the transaction term or if we default on our obligations under the repurchase agreement, we could incur losses. When we engage in repurchase transactions, we generally sell securities to lenders (i.e., repurchase agreement counterparties) and receive cash from the lenders. The lenders are obligated to resell the same securities back to us at the end of the term of the transaction. Because the cash we receive from the lender when we initially sell the securities to the lender is less than the value of those securities (this difference is referred to as the haircut), if the lender defaults on its obligation to resell the same securities back to us we would incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming there was no change in the value of the securities). Further, if we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase transaction, the lender can elect to terminate the transaction and cease entering into additional repurchase transactions with us. Our repurchase agreements may also contain cross-default provisions, so that if a default occurs under any one agreement, the lenders under our other repurchase agreements could also declare a default. Any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could adversely affect our earnings and thus our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. • Our use of repurchase agreements to borrow money may give our lenders greater rights in the event of bankruptcy. Borrowings made under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. If a lender under one of our repurchase agreements files for bankruptcy, it may be difficult for us to recover our assets pledged as collateral to such lender. In addition, if we ever file for bankruptcy, lenders under our repurchase agreements may be able to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the Bankruptcy Code and take possession of, and liquidate, our collateral under our repurchase agreements without delay. 10 We have experienced declines in the market value of our assets. A decline in the market value of our MBS or other assets may require us to recognize an “other-than-temporary” impairment against such assets under GAAP if we were to determine that, with respect to any assets in unrealized loss positions, we do not have the ability and intent to hold such assets for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery (which may be at maturity) of the amortized cost of such assets. If such a determination were made, we would recognize unrealized losses through earnings and write down the amortized cost of such assets to a new cost basis, based on the fair market value of such assets on the date they are considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired. Such impairment charges reflect non-cash losses at the time of recognition. Any subsequent disposition or sale of such impaired assets could further affect our future losses or gains, as they are based on the difference between the sale price received and adjusted amortized cost of such assets at the time of sale. In the past, we have experienced declines in the market value of our MBS and other assets which were determined to be other-than-temporary. As a result, we recognized other-than-temporary impairments against such assets under GAAP, which were recognized through earnings, reflecting the write down of the cost basis of such assets to their fair market value at the point the determination was made. Our investment strategy may involve credit risk. The holder of a mortgage or MBS assumes a risk that the borrowers may default on their obligations to make full and timely payments of principal and interest. Our investment policy requires that at least 50% of our assets consist of MBS that are either (a) issued or guaranteed by a federally charted corporation, such as Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, or an agency of the U.S. Government, such as Ginnie Mae, or (b) are rated in one of the two highest rating categories by at least one of the Rating Agencies. Even though we have acquired primarily Agency MBS to date, pursuant to our investment policy, we have the ability to acquire non-Agency MBS and other investment assets of lower credit quality. At December 31, 2008, we owned non-Agency MBS with a fair value of $204.0 million (and an amortized cost of $332.9 million), of which $203.6 million was comprised of Senior MBS and $376,000 was comprised of other non-Agency MBS. In general, non-Agency MBS, including Senior MBS, carry greater investment risk than Agency MBS because they are not guaranteed as to principal and/or interest by the U.S. Government, any federal agency or any federally chartered corporation. Unexpectedly high rates of default (e.g., in excess of the default rates forecasted) and/or higher loss severities on the mortgages collateralizing our non-Agency MBS may adversely affect the value of such assets. Accordingly, non-Agency MBS and other investment assets of lower credit quality could cause us to incur losses of income from, and/or losses in market value relating to, these assets if there are defaults of principal and/or interest on, or if the Rating Agencies downgrade the credit rating of, these assets. An increase in our borrowing costs relative to the interest we receive on our MBS may adversely affect our profitability. Our earnings are primarily generated from the difference between the interest income we earn on our investment portfolio, less net amortization of purchase premiums and discounts, and the interest expense we pay on our borrowings. We rely primarily on borrowings under repurchase agreements, with terms ranging from one to 48 months (with the majority of such borrowings, at December 31, 2008, having terms of one to three months), to finance the acquisition of MBS which have longer-term contractual maturities. Even though most of our MBS have interest rates that adjust over time based on short-term changes in corresponding interest rate indexes, the interest we pay on our borrowings may increase at a faster pace than the interest we earn on our MBS. In general, if the interest expense on our borrowings increases relative to the interest income we earn on our MBS, our profitability may be adversely affected. • Changes in interest rates, cyclical or otherwise, may adversely affect our profitability. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including fiscal and monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions, as well as other factors beyond our control. In general, we finance the acquisition of our MBS through borrowings in the form of repurchase transactions, which exposes us to interest rate risk on the financed assets. The cost of our borrowings is based on prevailing market interest rates. Because the terms of our repurchase transactions range from one to 48 months at inception (with the majority of such transactions, at December 31, 2008, having terms of one to three months), the interest rates on our borrowings generally adjust more frequently (as new repurchase transactions are entered into upon the maturity of existing repurchase transactions) than the interest rates on our MBS. During a period of rising interest rates, our borrowing costs generally will increase at a faster pace than our interest earnings on the leveraged portion of our MBS portfolio, which could result in a decline in our net interest spread and net interest margin. The severity of any such decline would depend on our asset/liability composition, including the impact of hedging transactions, at the time as well as the magnitude and period over which interest rates increase. Further, an increase in short-term interest rates could also have a negative impact on the market value of our MBS portfolio. If any of these events happen, we could experience a decrease in net income or incur a net loss during these periods, which may negatively impact our distributions to stockholders. 11 • Hybrid MBS have fixed interest rates for an initial period which may reduce our profitability if short-term interest rates increase. The ARMs collateralizing our MBS are primarily comprised of Hybrids, which have interest rates that are fixed for an initial period (typically three to ten years) and, thereafter, generally adjust annually to an increment over a pre-determined interest rate index. Accordingly, during a period of rising interest rates, the cost of our borrowings (excluding the impact of hedging transactions) would increase while the interest income earned on our MBS portfolio would not increase with respect to those Hybrid MBS that were then in their initial fixed rate period. If this were to happen, we could experience a decrease in net income or incur a net loss during these periods, which may negatively impact our distributions to stockholders. • Interest rate caps on the ARMs collateralizing our MBS may adversely affect our profitability if short-term interest rates increase. The coupons earned on ARM-MBS adjust over time as interest rates change (typically after an initial fixed-rate period). The financial markets primarily determine the interest rates that we pay on the repurchase transactions used to finance the acquisition of our MBS; however, the level of adjustment to the interest rates earned on our ARM-MBS is typically limited by contract. The interim and lifetime interest rate caps on the ARMs collateralizing our MBS limit the amount by which the interest rates on such assets can adjust. Interim interest rate caps limit the amount interest rates on a particular ARM can adjust during any given year or period. Lifetime interest rate caps limit the amount interest rates can adjust from inception through maturity of a particular ARM. Our repurchase transactions are not subject to similar restrictions. Accordingly, in a sustained period of rising interest rates or a period in which interest rates rise rapidly, we could experience a decrease in net income or a net loss because the interest rates paid by us on our borrowings (excluding the impact of hedging transactions) could increase without limitation (as new repurchase transactions are entered into upon the maturity of existing repurchase transactions) while increases in the interest rates earned on the ARMs collateralizing our MBS could be limited due to interim or lifetime interest rate caps. • Adjustments of interest rates on our borrowings may not be matched to interest rate indexes on our MBS. In general, the interest rates on our repurchase transactions are based on LIBOR, while the interest rates on our ARM-MBS may be indexed to LIBOR or another index rate, such as the one-year CMT rate, MTA or COFI. Accordingly, any increase in LIBOR relative to one-year CMT rates, MTA or COFI will generally result in an increase in our borrowing costs that is not matched by a corresponding increase in the interest earned on our ARM-MBS. Any such interest rate index mismatch could adversely affect our profitability, which may negatively impact our distributions to stockholders. • A flat or inverted yield curve may adversely affect ARM-MBS prepayment rates and supply. Our net interest income varies primarily as a result of changes in interest rates as well as changes in interest rates across the yield curve. When the differential between short-term and long-term benchmark interest rates narrows, the yield curve is said to be “flattening.” We believe that when the yield curve is relatively flat, borrowers have an incentive to refinance into Hybrids with longer initial fixed-rate periods and fixed rate mortgages, causing our MBS to experience faster prepayments. In addition, a flatter yield curve generally leads to fixed-rate mortgage rates that are closer to the interest rates available on ARMs, potentially decreasing the supply of ARM-MBS. At times, short-term interest rates may increase and exceed long-term interest rates, causing an inverted yield curve. When the yield curve is inverted, fixed-rate mortgage rates may approach or be lower than mortgage rates on ARMs, further increasing ARM-MBS prepayments and further negatively impacting ARM-MBS supply. Increases in prepayments on our MBS portfolio cause our premium amortization to accelerate, lowering the yield on such assets. If this happens, we could experience a decrease in net income or incur a net loss during these periods, which may negatively impact our distributions to stockholders. 12 Our use of hedging strategies to mitigate our interest rate exposure may not be effective and may expose us to counterparty risks. In accordance with our operating policies, we may pursue various types of hedging strategies, including Swaps, Caps and other derivative transactions, to seek to mitigate or reduce our exposure to losses from adverse changes in interest rates. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates, the type of assets held and financing sources used and other changing market conditions. No hedging strategy, however, can completely insulate us from the interest rate risks to which we are exposed and there is no guarantee that the implementation of any hedging strategy would have the desired impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Certain of the U.S. federal income tax requirements that we must satisfy in order to qualify as a REIT may limit our ability to hedge against such risks. We will not enter into derivative transactions if we believe that they will jeopardize our qualification as a REIT. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: · interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; · available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; · the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; · the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and · the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. We primarily use Swaps to hedge against future increases in interest rates on our repurchase agreements. Should a Swap counterparty be unable to make required payments pursuant to such Swap, the hedged liability would cease to be hedged for the remaining term of the Swap. In addition, we may be at risk for any collateral held by a hedging counterparty to a Swap, should such counterparty become insolvent or file for bankruptcy. In September 2008, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (or Lehman), the parent guarantor of Lehman Brother Special Financing Inc. (or LBSF), one of our Swap counterparties, filed for bankruptcy protection. As a result of the bankruptcy filing by Lehman, we terminated our two outstanding Swaps with LBSF, realizing a loss of $986,000, comprised of an $841,000 loss on the termination of the Swaps at market value and a $145,000 write-off against an unsecured receivable from LBSF. Our hedging transactions, which are intended to limit losses, may actually adversely affect our earnings, which could reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Hedging Instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of Hedging Instruments may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in its default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in a loss and force us to cover our commitments, if any, at the then current market price. Although generally we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. We cannot assure you that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. We may enter into Hedging Instruments that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, part of our financing strategy will involve entering into Hedging Instruments that could require us to fund cash payments in certain circumstances (e.g., the early termination of a Hedging Instrument caused by an event of default or other voluntary or involuntary termination event or the decision by a hedging counterparty to request the posting of collateral it is contractually owed under the terms of a Hedging Instrument). With respect to the termination of an existing Swap, the amount due would generally be equal to the unrealized loss of the open Swap position with the hedging counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These economic losses will be reflected in our financial results of operations and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time. Any losses we incur on our Hedging Instruments could adversely affect our earnings and thus our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. 13 We may change our investment strategy, operating policies and/or asset allocations without stockholder consent. We may change our investment strategy, operating policies and/or asset allocation with respect to investments, acquisitions, leverage, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions at any time without the consent of our stockholders. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate and/or credit risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations. Furthermore, a change in our asset allocation could result in our making investments in asset categories different from our historical investments. These changes could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common stock or our ability to pay dividends or make distributions. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level. We intend to pay dividends on our common stock in an amount equal to at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, which is calculated generally before the dividends paid deduction and excluding net capital income, in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Dividends will be declared and paid at the discretion of our Board and will depend on our REIT taxable earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT qualification and such other factors as our Board may deem relevant from time to time. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stock and our ability to pay dividends may be negatively impacted by adverse changes in our operating results. We are dependent on our executive officers and key personnel for our success. As a self-advised REIT, our success is dependent upon the efforts, experience, diligence, skill and network of business contacts of our executive officers and key personnel. The departure of any of our executive officers and/or key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operations and performance. We are dependent on information systems and systems’ failures could significantly disrupt our business. Our business is highly dependent on our communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operation and performance. We may be subject to risks associated with our investment in real estate. Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk. The economic returns from our indirect investment in Lealand Place, a 191-unit multi-family apartment property located in Lawrenceville, Georgia (or Lealand), may be impacted by a number of factors, including general and local economic conditions, the relative supply of apartments and other housing in the area, interest rates on mortgage loans, the need for and costs of repairs and maintenance of the property, government regulations and the cost of complying with them, taxes and inflation. In general, local conditions in the applicable market area significantly affect occupancy or rental rates for multi-family apartment properties. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, we will have limited ability to dispose of our investment quickly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, under certain circumstances, we may be subject to significant tax liability in the event that we sell our investment in the property. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances, we may be required, regardless of knowledge or responsibility, to investigate and remediate the effects of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at the property and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property or personal injury damages and for investigation and remediation costs incurred as a result of contamination. These damages and costs may be substantial. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate the contamination, may adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or rent the affected property. We must operate the property in compliance with numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, including landlord tenant laws, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and other laws generally applicable to business operations. Noncompliance with such laws could expose us to liability. 14 We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities and competition may limit our ability to acquire desirable investment securities. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. Our profitability depends, in large part, on our ability to acquire MBS or other investment securities at favorable prices. In acquiring our investment securities, we compete with a variety of institutional investors, including other REITs, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial finance and insurance companies and other financial institutions. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. Many of our competitors are not subject to the operating constraints associated with REIT compliance or maintenance of an exemption from the Investment Company Act. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish additional business relationships than us. Furthermore, government or regulatory action and competition for investment securities of the types and classes which we acquire may lead to the price of such assets increasing, which may further limit our ability to generate desired returns. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, desirable investments may be limited in the future and we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, as we can provide no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objectives. Our qualification as a REIT. We have elected to qualify as a REIT and intend to comply with the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (or the Code). Accordingly, we will not be subjected to income tax to the extent we distribute our REIT taxable income (which is generally ordinary income, computed by excluding the dividends paid deduction, income from prohibited transactions, income from foreclosure property and any net capital income) to stockholders and provided that we comply with certain income, asset and ownership tests applicable to REITs. We believe that we currently meet all of the REIT requirements and, therefore, continue to qualify as a REIT under the provisions of the Code. Many of the REIT requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. The determination that we are a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which involve interpretation. For example, as set forth in the REIT tax laws, to qualify as a REIT, annually at least 75% of our gross income must come from, among other sources, interest on obligations secured by mortgages on real property or interests in real property, gain from the disposition of non-dealer real property, including mortgages or interest in real property, dividends, other distributions and gains from the disposition of shares in other REITs, commitment fees received for agreements to make real estate loans and certain temporary investment income. In addition, the composition of our assets must meet certain requirements at the close of each quarter. There can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (or IRS) or a court would agree with any conclusions or positions we have taken in interpreting the REIT requirements. Also in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income on an annual basis to our stockholders. Such dividend distribution requirement limits the amount of cash we have available for other business purposes, including amounts to fund our growth. Also, it is possible that because of differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash, we may have to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the 90% dividend distribution requirement. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT qualification unless we meet certain statutory relief provisions. Furthermore, Congress and the IRS might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult or impossible for us to remain qualified as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would be required to pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income, and distributions to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in determining our taxable income. In such a case, we might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay our taxes. Our payment of income tax would decrease the amount of our income available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we no longer would be required to distribute substantially all of our taxable income to our stockholders. In addition, unless we were eligible for certain statutory relief provisions, we could not re-elect to qualify as a REIT until the fifth calendar year following the year in which we failed to qualify. Even if we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may be required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income. Any of these taxes will reduce our operating cash flow. 15 Compliance with securities laws and regulations could be costly. The SOX Act and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange affect the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, regulatory compliance and reporting, and disclosure practices. We believe that these rules and regulations will continue to make it costly for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of management and our Board (particularly with respect to Board members serving on our Audit Committee). In addition, our management is required to deliver a report that assesses the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, pursuant to Section 302 of the SOX Act. Section 404 of the SOX Act requires our independent registered public accounting firm to deliver an attestation report on management’s assessment of, and the operating effectiveness of, our internal controls over financial reporting in conjunction with their opinion on our audited financial statements as of each December 31. We cannot give any assurances that material weaknesses will not be identified in the future in connection with our compliance with the provisions of Sections 302 and 404 of the SOX Act. The existence of any such material weakness would preclude a conclusion by management and our independent auditors that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting. Our management may be required to devote significant time and expense to remediate any material weaknesses that may be discovered and may not be able to remediate any material weaknesses in a timely manner. The existence of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could also result in errors in our financial statements that could require us to restate our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause stockholders to lose confidence in our reported financial information, all of which could lead to a decline in the market price of our capital stock. Loss of our Investment Company Act exemption would adversely affect us. We intend to conduct our business so as to maintain our exempt status under, and not to become regulated as an investment company for purposes of, the Investment Company Act. If we failed to maintain our exempt status under the Investment Company Act and became regulated as an investment company, our ability to, among other things, use leverage would be substantially reduced and, as a result, we would be unable to conduct our business as described in this annual report on Form 10-K. The Investment Company Act exempts entities that are “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate” (i.e., qualifying interests). Under the current interpretations of the staff of the SEC, in order to qualify for this exemption, we must maintain (i) at least 55% of our assets in qualifying interests (or the 55% Test) and (ii) at least 80% of our assets in real estate related assets (including qualifying interests) (or the 80% Test). MBS that do not represent all of the certificates issued (i.e., an undivided interest) with respect to the entire pool of mortgages (i.e., a whole pool) underlying such MBS may be treated as securities separate from such underlying mortgage loans and, thus, may not be considered qualifying interests for purposes of the 55% Test; however, such MBS would be considered real estate related assets for purposes of the 80% Test. Therefore, for purposes of the 55% Test, our ownership of these types of MBS is limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act. In meeting the 55% Test, we treat as qualifying interests those MBS issued with respect to an underlying pool as to which we own all of the issued certificates. There can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing REITs, including the Division of Investment Management of the SEC providing more specific or different guidance regarding the treatment of assets as qualifying interests or real estate related assets, will not change in a manner that adversely affects our operations. If the SEC or its staff were to adopt a contrary interpretation, we could be required to sell a substantial amount of our investment securities under potentially adverse market conditions. Further, in order to insure that we at all times qualify for this exemption from the Investment Company Act, we may be precluded from acquiring MBS whose yield is higher than the yield on MBS that could be otherwise purchased in a manner consistent with this exemption. Accordingly, we monitor our compliance with both of the 55% Test and the 80% Test in order to maintain our exempt status under the Investment Company Act; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our exemption as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If we fail to qualify for this exception in the future, we could be required to restructure our activities, including effecting sales of our investment securities under potentially adverse market conditions, which could negatively affect the value of our common stock, the sustainability of our business model and our ability to make distributions. As of December 31, 2008, we had determined that we were in compliance, and had maintained such compliance during the year then ended, with both of the 55% Test and the 80% Test. 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 