Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following factors and other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow, which could in turn materially adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our significant level of debt and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness may adversely affect our financial and operating activity or ability to incur additional debt. We have incurred substantial indebtedness to finance our business acquisitions, including indebtedness incurred in connection with the Titan acquisition. At December 31, 2005, we had approximately $4,650.0 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt, excluding $104.8 million of outstanding letters of credit under our senior credit facility. In addition, we had additional borrowing capacity under our senior credit facility, after reductions for outstanding letters of credit, of approximately $895.2 million at December 31, 2005. In the future, we may borrow more money, subject to limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness and to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance. We do not have complete control over our future performance because it is subject to economic, political, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors affecting the aerospace and defense industry. It is possible that in the future our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to allow us to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If this situation occurs, we may have to sell assets, restructure debt or obtain additional equity capital. We may not be able to do so in accordance with the restrictions contained in our debt agreements. 16 Our level of indebtedness has important consequences to us. These consequences may include: • requiring a substantial portion of our net cash flow from operations to be used to pay interest and principal on our debt and therefore be unavailable for other purposes, including capital expenditures, research and development and other investments; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, investments or other expenditures, which, in each case, may limit our ability to carry out our acquisition strategy; • higher interest expenses due to increases in interest rates on our borrowings that have variable interest rates; • heightening our vulnerability to downturns in our business or in the general economy and restricting us from making acquisitions, introducing new technologies and products or exploiting business opportunities; and • impacting debt covenants that limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets or pay cash dividends. Failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness. Additionally, on December 31, 2005, we had $7,140.5 million of contractual obligations (including outstanding indebtedness). For a detailed listing of the components of contractual obligations, see ‘‘Part II – Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Contractual Obligations.’’ Our business acquisition strategy involves risks, and we may not successfully implement our strategy. We seek to acquire companies that complement our existing businesses. We may not be able to continue to identify acquisition candidates on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we make additional acquisitions, we may not realize the benefits anticipated from these acquisitions, including cost synergies and improving margins. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, since such additional financing could be restricted by the terms of our debt agreements. The process of integrating the operations of acquired businesses, including Titan and other recent business acquisitions, into our existing operations may result in unforeseen difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. Possible future business acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense and contingent liabilities, each of which could result in an increase to our already significant level of outstanding debt. We consider and execute strategic acquisitions on an ongoing basis and may be evaluating acquisitions or engage in acquisition negotiations at any given time. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and joint venture transactions, and, except as disclosed in ‘‘Part II – Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Business Acquisitions'’, we have not entered into any other agreements with respect to any material transactions. Furthermore, in certain of our business acquisitions we have assumed all claims against and liabilities of the acquired business, including both asserted or unasserted claims and liabilities. We rely on sales to U.S. Government entities, and the loss of a significant number of our contracts would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Our sales are predominantly derived from contracts (revenue arrangements) with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government. At December 31, 2005, we had approximately 1,500 contracts (revenue arrangements) with individual estimated contract values in excess of $1.0 million. Approximately 79.9%, or $7,542.2 million, of our sales for the year ended December 31, 2005 were made directly or indirectly to U.S. Government agencies, including the DoD. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our largest contract represented 4.5% of our sales, and sales from our five largest programs amounted to $1,433.9 million, or 15.2% of our sales. The loss of all or a substantial portion of our sales to the U.S. Government would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. A substantial majority of our total sales are for products and services under contracts with various agencies and procurement offices of the DoD or with prime contractors to the DoD. Although these 17 various parts of the DoD are subject to common budgetary pressures and other factors, our customers exercise independent purchasing decisions. Because of this concentration of contracts, if a significant number of our DoD contracts and subcontracts are simultaneously delayed or cancelled for budgetary performance or other reasons, it would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating income and cash flows. In addition to contract cancellations and declines in agency budgets, our backlog and future financial results, may be adversely affected by: • curtailment of the U.S. Government’s use of technology or other services and products providers, including curtailment due to government budget reductions and related fiscal matters; • developments in Iraq, Afghanistan or other geopolitical developments that affect demand for products and services; • our ability to hire and retain personnel to meet increasing demand for our services including our ability to meet demands for linguist services; and • technological developments that impact purchasing decisions or our competitive position. These or other factors could cause U.S. defense and other federal agencies to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts or not to exercise options to renew contracts or limit our ability to obtain new contract awards. Any of these actions or any of the other actions described above could significantly reduce our revenues, operating income and cash flows. Our results of operations and cash flows, as well as our valuation of contracts in process are substantially affected by our fixed-price, cost reimbursable and time-and-material type contracts. The majority of our contracts (revenue arrangements) require us to design, develop, manufacture, modify, upgrade, test and integrate complex aerospace and electronic equipment, and to provide related engineering and technical services according to the buyer’s specifications. These sales are transacted using written revenue arrangements, or contracts, which are generally either fixed-price, cost-reimbursable or time-and-material. For a description of our revenue recognition policies, see ‘‘Part II – Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies.’’ For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 53.2% of our sales were generated from fixed-price type contracts, approximately 30.4% of our sales were generated from cost-reimbursable type contracts and approximately 16.4% of our sales were generated from time-and-material type contracts. Substantially all of our cost-reimbursable and time-and-material type contracts are with the U.S. Government, primarily with the DoD. Substantially all of our sales to commercial customers are transacted under fixed-price sales arrangements, and are included in our fixed-price type contract sales. On a fixed-price type contract (revenue arrangement), we agree to perform the contractual statement of work for a predetermined contract price. Although a fixed-price type contract generally permits us to retain profits if the total actual contract costs are less than the estimated contract costs, we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit or cause us to sustain losses on the contract. Accounting for the sales on a fixed-price type contract requires the preparation of estimates of (1) the total contract revenue, (2) the total costs at completion, which is equal to the sum of the actual incurred costs to date on the contract and the estimated costs to complete the contract’s statement of work, and (3) the measurement of progress towards completion. Adjustments to original estimates for a contract’s revenue, estimated costs at completion and estimated total profit or loss are often required as work progresses under a contract, as experience is gained and as more information is obtained, even though the scope of work required under the contract may not change, or if contract modifications occur. On a cost-reimbursable type contract (revenue arrangement), we are paid our allowable incurred costs plus a profit which can be fixed or variable depending on the contract’s fee arrangement up to predetermined funding levels determined by our customers. On a time-and-material type contract (revenue arrangement), we are paid on the basis of direct labor hours expended at specified fixed-price hourly rates (that include wages, overhead, general and administrative expenses and profit) and materials 18 at cost. Therefore, on cost-reimbursable type and time-and-material type contracts we do not bear the risks of unexpected cost overruns, provided that we do not incur costs that exceed the predetermined funded amounts. The impact of revisions in profit (loss) estimates for all types of contracts are recognized on a cumulative catch-up basis in the period in which the revisions are made. Provisions for anticipated losses on contracts are recorded in the period in which they become evident. Amounts representing contract change orders or claims are included in sales only when they can be reliably estimated and their realization is reasonably assured. The revisions in contract estimates, if significant, can materially affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as our valuations of contracts in process. Our government contracts entail certain risks. A decline in or a redirection of the U.S. defense budget could result in a material decrease in our sales, earnings and cash flows. Our government contracts are dependent upon the U.S. defense budget. The DoD budget has increased for each fiscal year from fiscal year 1997 to fiscal year 2006 and, based on the Bush Administration’s current Future Year Defense Plan (FYDP), the DoD budget would continue to increase through fiscal year 2009. However, the future DoD budgets after fiscal year 2006 could be negatively impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Government’s budget deficits, a change in spending priorities and the costs of sustaining the U.S. military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, which could cause the DoD budget to remain unchanged or to decline. A significant decline in or redirection of U.S. military expenditures in the future could result in a material decrease to our sales, earnings and cash flow. The loss or significant reduction in government funding of a large program in which we participate could also result in a material decrease to our future sales, earnings and cash flows. U.S. Government contracts are also conditioned upon the continuing approval by Congress of the amount of necessary spending. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a September 30 fiscal year basis, even though contract periods of performance may extend over many years. Consequently, at the beginning of a major program, the contract is usually partially funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as appropriations are made by Congress for future fiscal years. Our government contracts contain unfavorable termination provisions and are subject to audit and modification. If a termination right is exercised by the government, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Companies engaged primarily in supplying defense-related equipment and services to U.S. Government agencies are subject to certain business risks peculiar to the defense industry. These risks include the ability of the U.S. Government to unilaterally: • suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; • terminate existing contracts; • reduce the value of existing contracts; • audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs; and • control and potentially prohibit the export of our products. All of our U.S. Government contracts can be terminated by the U.S. Government either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the contract. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. Termination for default provisions provide for the contractor to be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source. Our contracts with foreign governments generally contain similar provisions relating to termination at the convenience of the customer. The U.S. Government may review our costs and performance on their contracts, as well as our accounting and general business practices. Based on the results of such audits, the U.S. Government may 19 adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. In addition, under U.S. Government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be reimbursable under U.S. Government contracts. Further, as a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to investigation, legal action and/or liability that would not apply to a commercial company. We may not be able to win competitively awarded contracts or receive required licenses to export our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our government contracts are subject to competitive bidding. We obtain many of our U.S. Government contracts through a competitive bidding process. We may not be able to continue to win competitively awarded contracts. In addition, awarded contracts may not generate sales sufficient to result in our profitability. We are also subject to risks associated with the following: • the frequent need to bid on programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and/or cost overruns; • the substantial time, effort and experience required to prepare bids and proposals for competitively awarded contracts that may not be awarded to us; • design complexity and rapid technological obsolescence; and • the constant need for design improvement. In addition to these U.S. Government contract risks, we are required to obtain licenses from U.S. Government agencies to export many of our products and systems. Additionally, we are not permitted to export some of our products. Failure to receive required licenses would eliminate our ability to sell our products outside the United States. Furthermore, in connection with a plea agreement with the DoJ regarding Titan’s alleged violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), Titan is currently unable to obtain new export licenses for items regulated by the U.S. Department of State and Titan may not be able to obtain new export licenses or amendments to existing ones or to utilize licensing exemptions until after March 2008. We are subject to government investigations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We are from time to time subject to governmental investigations relating to our operations. We are currently cooperating with the U.S. Government on several investigations, including but not limited to, an investigation regarding the Combat Survivor/Evader Locator (CSEL) program (which is discussed below). Under U.S. Government procurement regulations, an indictment by a federal grand jury could result in us being suspended for a period of time from eligibility for awards of new government contracts. A conviction could result in debarment from contracting with the federal government for a specified term. Our Interstate Electronics Corporation subsidiary (IEC) is under criminal investigation by the United States Army Criminal Investigation Command. The investigation relates to IEC’s role on the CSEL program, on which IEC is a subcontractor to The Boeing Company (Boeing). IEC provides the GPS modules to Boeing for the CSEL program. The GPS module includes a complex printed wiring board (PWB) that IEC purchased from two suppliers. The investigation appears to be focused on alleged manufacturing deficiencies in the PWBs and IEC’s actions when it became aware of the potential manufacturing problems of the suppliers. We have conducted an internal investigation of this matter using outside counsel and currently believe that no criminal activity occurred. We are cooperating fully with the investigation and have voluntarily recalled all the PWBs and are repairing them as they are received. The outcome of our current (or future) governmental investigations cannot, however, be predicted, and any indictment, conviction or material fine or settlement arising out of these investigations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We are subject to the risks of current and future legal proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future prospects. At any given time, we are a defendant in various material legal proceedings and litigations arising in the ordinary course of business, including litigation, claims and assessments that have been asserted 20 against acquired businesses, which we have assumed. Although we maintain insurance policies, we can make no assurance that this insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material judgments and expenses related to potential future claims or that these levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices or at all. A significant judgment against us, arising out of any of our current or future legal proceedings and litigation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future prospects. At present, the litigation with OSI Systems, Inc., is scheduled to go to trial in April 2006. In addition, The Titan Corporation was subject to a number of litigation matters and government investigations that we assumed as part of our acquisition of Titan. For a discussion of the material litigation to which we are currently a party, see Note 14 to our audited consolidated financial statements. Our inability to keep pace with rapidly evolving products and technological change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The rapid change of technology is a key feature of most of the markets in which our products and systems oriented businesses operate. To succeed in the future, we will need to continue to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. Historically, our technology has been developed through customer-funded and internally funded research and development and through certain business acquisitions. We may not be able to continue to maintain comparable levels of research and development or successfully complete such acquisitions. In the past we have allocated substantial funds to capital expenditures, programs and other investments. This practice will continue to be required in the future. Even so, we may not be able to successfully identify new opportunities and may not have the needed financial resources to develop new products in a timely or cost-effective manner. At the same time, products and technologies developed by others may render our products and systems obsolete or non-competitive. Intense competition in the industries in which our businesses operate could limit our ability to attract and retain customers. The defense industry and the other industries in which our businesses operate, and the market for defense applications, is highly competitive. We expect that the DoD’s increased use of commercial off-the-shelf products and components in military equipment will continue to encourage new competitors to enter the market. We also expect that competition for original equipment manufacturing business will increase due to the continued emergence of merchant suppliers. Our ability to compete for defense contracts largely depends on the following factors: • the effectiveness and innovation of our technologies and research and development programs; • our ability to offer better program performance than our competitors at a lower cost; • our ability to retain our employees and hire new ones, particularly those who have U.S. Government security clearances; • our historical technical and schedule performance; and • the capabilities of our facilities, equipment and personnel to undertake the programs for which we compete. We are the incumbent supplier or have been the sole provider for many years for certain programs. We refer to such contracts as ‘‘sole-source’’ contracts. In such cases, there may be other suppliers who have the capability to compete for the programs involved, but they can only enter or reenter the market if the customer chooses to reopen or recompete the particular program to competition. The majority of our sales are derived from contracts with the U.S. Government and its prime contractors, which are principally awarded on the basis of negotiations or competitive bids. Additionally, some of our competitors are larger than us and have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. Our debt agreements restrict our ability to finance our future operations and, if we are unable to meet our financial ratios, could cause our existing debt to be accelerated. Our debt agreements contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: 21 • sell assets; • incur more indebtedness; • repay certain indebtedness; • pay dividends on the common stock of L-3 Holdings; • make certain investments or business acquisitions; • repurchase or redeem capital stock; • make certain capital expenditures; • engage in business mergers or consolidations; and • engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates. These restrictions could hurt our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. In addition, some of our debt agreements also require us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios, including total consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to total consolidated cash interest expense and total consolidated debt less designated cash balances to total consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Our ability to comply with these ratios and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of these agreements or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or covenants could result in a default under those debt agreements. In the event of any such default, the lenders under those debt agreements could elect to: • declare all outstanding debt, accrued interest and fees to be due and immediately payable; • require us to apply all of our available cash to repay our outstanding senior debt; and • prevent us from making debt service payments on our other debt. If we are unable to attract and retain key management and personnel, we may become unable to operate our business effectively. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our management, including Mr. Lanza, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified management and technical personnel, including employees who have U.S. Government security clearances, particularly clearances of top-secret and above. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies for members of our management. We have an employment agreement with Mr. Lanza. We face competition for management and technical personnel from other companies and organizations. Failure to attract and retain such personnel would damage our prospects. Environmental laws and regulation may subject us to significant liability. Our operations are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local as well as certain foreign environmental laws and regulations within the countries in which we operate relating to the discharge, storage, treatment, handling, disposal and remediation of certain materials, substances and wastes used in our operations. New laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements may require us to incur a significant amount of additional costs in the future and could decrease the amount of free cash flow available to us for other purposes, including capital expenditures, research and development and other investments and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Termination of our backlog of orders could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. We currently have a backlog of orders, primarily under contracts with the U.S. Government. Our total funded backlog was $7,000.9 million at December 31, 2005. The U.S. Government may unilaterally 22 modify or terminate its contracts. Accordingly, most of our backlog could be modified or terminated by the U.S. Government, which would negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 