ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THAT COULD AFFECT OPERATING RESULTS Forward-Looking Information: This report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements regarding the Company’s actual and expected financial performance and operations. These statements are based upon our current expectations and knowledge of factors impacting our business, including, without limitation, statements about litigation, successful disposition of the (Minneapolis) Star Tribune newspaper, tax and other benefits from the sale of the Star Tribune, advertising revenues, return on pension plan assets and assumed salary increases, newsprint costs, amortization expense, stock option expenses, prepayment of debt, capital expenditures, sufficiency of capital resources and possible acquisitions and investments. Such statements are subject to risks, trends and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are generally preceded by, followed by or are a part of sentences that include the words “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” or similar expressions. For all of those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that the following important factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this document and in the documents which we incorporate by reference, could affect the future results of McClatchy and could cause those future results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements: general economic, market or business conditions, especially in any of the markets where we operate newspapers; impact of any litigation or any potential litigation; geo-political uncertainties including the risk of war; changes in newsprint prices and/or printing and distribution costs from anticipated levels; changes in interest rates; changes in pension assets and liabilities; increased competition from newspapers, internet sites or other forms of media reaching the markets we serve; increased consolidation among major retailers in our markets or other events depressing the level of advertising; changes in our ability to negotiate and obtain favorable terms under collective bargaining agreements with unions; competitive action by other companies; difficulties in servicing our debt obligations; other occurrences leading to decreased circulation and diminished revenues from retail, classified and national advertising; and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Additional Information Regarding Certain Risks: The Company’s primary source of revenue is advertising, followed by circulation revenues. In recent years, the advertising industry generally has experienced a secular shift toward internet advertising and away from other traditional media. In addition, the Company’s circulation has declined over the last two years, reflecting general trends in the newspaper industry including consumer migration toward the internet and other media for news and information. The Company has attempted to take advantage of the growth of online media and advertising by operating local internet sites in each of its daily newspaper markets, but faces increasing competition from other online sources for both advertising and circulation revenues. This increased competition has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results, including negatively impacting revenues and margins. Newsprint is the major component of our cost of raw materials. Newsprint accounted for 14.9% of McClatchy’s operating expenses for fiscal 2006. Accordingly, our earnings are sensitive to changes in newsprint prices. We have not attempted to hedge fluctuations in the normal purchases of newsprint or enter into contracts with embedded derivatives for the purchase of newsprint. If the price of newsprint increases materially, our operating results could be adversely affected. If our newsprint suppliers experience labor unrest, transportation difficulties or other supply disruptions, our ability to produce and deliver newspapers could be impaired and/or the cost of the newsprint could increase, both of which would negatively affect our operating results. If McClatchy experiences labor unrest, our ability to produce and deliver newspapers could be impaired. The results of future labor negotiations could harm our operating results. Our newspapers have not endured a 7 Table of Contents labor strike for decades. However, we cannot ensure that a strike will not occur at one or more of our newspapers in the future. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 5.5% of our full-time and part-time employees were represented by unions. Most of the Company’s union-represented employees are currently working under labor agreements, which expire at various times. McClatchy faces collective bargaining upon the expirations of these labor agreements. Even if our newspapers do not suffer a labor strike, the Company’s operating results could be harmed if the results of labor negotiations restrict our ability to maximize the efficiency of our newspaper operations. The Company continues to evaluate its business and make strategic investments in digital ventures, either alone or with partners, to further its growth in its online businesses. There can be no assurances that these investments or partnerships will result in growth in advertising or will produce equity income in future years. The Company expects to realize cost savings of approximately $70.0 million in the first year of ownership from the Acquisition, primarily by reducing redundancy in staffing for corporate and digital functions, and to a lesser extent, savings at the individual newspaper level through combined purchasing of products and capital expenditures. There is no assurance that these cost savings will be realized in the amount or timing that management has projected. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had approximately $3.3 billion in total consolidated debt outstanding. This debt could increase the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. Debt service costs are subject to interest rate changes as well as any changes in the Company’s credit ratings. Negative changes in credit ratings could increase the level of debt service costs and also affect the Company’s future ability to refinance certain maturing debt, or affect the ultimate structure of such refinancing. The Company expects to use the sale of the (Minneapolis) Star Tribune to reduce debt in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, and expects that over the next several years its primary use of cash flow from operations will be to reduce debt. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 