ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a variety of risks, including the risks described below as well as adverse business and market conditions and risks associated with foreign operations. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below which we have not determined to be material may also impair our business operations. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information in this report, including information contained in the “Business,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” sections. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, and we may not be able to achieve our goals. Such events may cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. The economic downturn has lead to a reduction in demand for our construction services. Negative conditions in the credit markets may continue to adversely impact our ability to operate our business. The level of demand for construction services from our clients has been, and will likely continue to be, adversely impacted by the downturn in the industries we service, as well as in the economy in general. As the general level of economic activity has slowed, certain of our ultimate customers have delayed or cancelled, and may continue to delay or cancel, projects or capital spending, especially with respect to more profitable private sector work, and this downturn has adversely affected our ability to continue to grow and has resulted in a reduction in our revenues and profitability, and is likely to continue to adversely affect our revenues and profitability. A number of economic factors, including financing conditions for the industries we serve, have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our ultimate customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for past services. General concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and foreign economies have caused and may continue to cause ultimate customers to defer projects even if they have credit available to them. Continuation or further worsening of financial and macroeconomic conditions could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Many of our clients depend on the availability of credit to help finance their capital and maintenance projects. During 2009 and continued in 2010, the availability of credit tightened in spite of governmental efforts to increase liquidity and reduce interest rates. This situation has negatively impacted the ability of existing and prospective ultimate customers to fund projects we might otherwise perform, particularly those in the more profitable private sector. As a result, certain ultimate customers have deferred and others may defer such projects for an unknown, and perhaps lengthy, period. Such deferrals have inhibited our growth and adversely affected our results of operations and are likely to continue to have an adverse impact on our results of operations. In a weak economic environment, particularly in a period of restrictive credit markets, we may experience greater difficulties in collecting payments from, and negotiating change orders and/or claims with, our clients due to, among other reasons, a diminution in our ultimate customers’ access to the credit markets. If clients delay in paying or fail to pay a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, or we fail to successfully negotiate a significant portion of our change orders and/or claims with clients, it could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is vulnerable to the cyclical nature of the markets in which our clients operate and is dependent upon the timing and funding of new awards. We provide construction and maintenance services to ultimate customers operating in a number of markets which have been, and we expect will continue to be, cyclical and subject to significant fluctuations due to a variety of factors beyond our control, including economic conditions and changes in client spending. Regardless of economic or market conditions, investment decisions by our ultimate customers may vary by location or as a result of other factors like the availability of labor or relative construction costs. Because we are dependent on the timing and funding of new awards, we are therefore vulnerable to changes in our clients’ markets and investment decisions. Our business has traditionally lagged recoveries in the general economy and, therefore, may not recover as quickly as the economy at large. Our business may be affected by current government budget deficits. Significant budget deficits faced by the federal, state and local governments may result in their curtailment of future spending on government infrastructure projects and/or expenditures, from which expenditures some of our businesses derive a significant portion of revenue. An increase in the prices of certain materials used in our businesses could adversely affect our businesses. We are exposed to market risk of fluctuations in certain commodity prices of materials, such as copper and steel, which are used as components of supplies or materials utilized in both our construction and facilities services operations. We are also exposed to increases in energy prices, particularly as they relate to gasoline prices for our fleet of over 8,000 vehicles. Most of our contracts do not allow us to adjust our prices and, as a result, increases in material or fuel costs could reduce our profitability with respect to projects in progress. Our industry is highly competitive. Our industry is served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies, a few public companies and several large regional companies. In addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry into most of our businesses. As a 6 result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. Competition in our industry depends on numerous factors, including price. Certain of our competitors have lower overhead cost structures and, therefore, are able to provide their services at lower rates than we are currently able to provide. In addition, some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. We cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources necessary to provide services that are superior in quality and lower in price to ours. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within the industry or maintain a customer base at current levels. We may also face competition from the in-house service organizations of existing or prospective customers, particularly with respect to facilities services. Many of our customers employ personnel who perform some of the same types of facilities services that we do. We cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource facilities services in the future. We are a decentralized company, which presents certain risks. While we believe decentralization has enhanced our growth and enabled us to remain responsive to opportunities and to our customers’ needs, it necessarily places significant control and decision-making powers in the hands of local management. This presents various risks, including the risk that we may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting a key business than we would in a more centralized environment. Our business may also be affected by adverse weather conditions. Adverse weather conditions, particularly during the winter season, could affect our ability to perform efficient work outdoors in certain regions of the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada. As a result, we could experience reduced revenues. In addition, cooler than normal temperatures during the summer months could reduce the need for our services, and we may experience reduced revenues and profitability during the period such unseasonal weather conditions persist. Our business may be affected by the work environment. We perform our work under a variety of conditions, including but not limited to, difficult terrain, difficult site conditions and busy urban centers where delivery of materials and availability of labor may be impacted, clean-room environments where strict procedures must be followed, and sites which may have been exposed to environmental hazards. Performing work under these conditions can negatively affect efficiency and, therefore, our profitability. Our dependence upon fixed price contracts could adversely affect our business. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a significant portion of our revenues from fixed price contracts. We must estimate the total costs of a particular project to bid for fixed price contracts. The actual cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated. These variations, along with other risks, inherent in performing fixed price contracts, may cause actual gross profits from projects to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs can have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year. We could incur additional costs to cover guarantees. In some instances, we guarantee completion of a project by a specific date or price, achievement of certain performance standards or performance of our services at a certain standard of quality. If we subsequently fail to meet such guarantees, we may be held responsible for costs resulting from such failures. Such a failure could result in our payment of liquidated or other damages. To the extent that any of these events occur, the total costs of a project could exceed the original estimated costs, and we would experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss. Many of our contracts, especially our facilities services contracts, may be canceled on short notice, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing such contracts if they are canceled or as they are completed or expire. We could experience a decrease in revenues, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur: • customers cancel a significant number of contracts; • we fail to win a significant number of our existing contracts upon re-bid; • we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or • we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenues. We may be unsuccessful in generating internal growth. Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: • expand the range of services offered to customers to address their evolving needs; • attract new customers; and • increase the number of projects performed for existing customers. In addition, existing and potential customers have reduced, and may continue to reduce, the number or size of projects available to us due to their inability to obtain capital or pay for services provided or because of general economic conditions. Many of the 7 factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth are beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. If we are not successful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand operations or grow our business. The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business. We depend on the continued efforts of our senior management. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified executives, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. However, we have executive development and management succession plans in place in order to minimize any such negative impact. We may be unable to attract and retain skilled employees. Our ability to grow and maintain productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We are dependent upon our project managers and field supervisors who are responsible for managing our projects; and there can be no assurance that any individual will continue in his or her capacity for any particular period of time, and the loss of such qualified employees could have an adverse effect on our business. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our business strategy or that labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues. Our unionized workforce could adversely affect our operations. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 65% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Although the majority of these agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. However, only two of our collective bargaining agreements are national or regional in scope, and not all of our collective bargaining agreements expire at the same time. Strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We contribute to many multi-employer union pension funds based upon wages paid to our union employees. Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, we may become liable for our proportionate share of a multi-employer pension plan’s underfunding, if we cease to contribute to that pension plan or significantly reduce the employees in respect of which we make contributions to that pension plan. See Note 15—Retirement Plans of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding multi-employer pension plans. Fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates impact our financial results. We have significant foreign operations in Canada and the United Kingdom, which in 2010 accounted, in the aggregate, for 14% of our revenues. Our reported financial condition and results of operations are exposed to the effects (both positive and negative) that fluctuating exchange rates have on the process of translating the financial statements of our international operations, which are denominated in local currencies, into the U.S. dollar. Our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. Our operations are subject to various laws, including environmental laws and regulations, among which many deal with the handling and disposal of asbestos and other hazardous or universal waste products, PCBs and fuel storage. A violation of such laws and regulations may expose us to various claims, including claims by third parties, as well as remediation costs and fines. We own and lease many facilities. Some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks, which may be above or below ground. If these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. As a part of our business, we also install fuel storage tanks and are sometimes required to deal with hazardous materials, all of which may expose us to environmental liability. In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could harm our financial condition and results of operations, although certain of these costs might be covered by insurance. In some instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such clean-up and other obligations and liabilities that we believe are adequate to cover such obligations and liabilities. However, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of such costs or third-party indemnitors may default on their obligations. In addition, unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify, or be indemnified for, all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business. Adverse resolution of litigation and other legal proceedings may harm our operating results or financial condition. We are a party to lawsuits and other legal proceedings, most of which are in the normal course of our business. Litigation and other legal proceedings can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular legal proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and in some cases, on our reputation or our ability to obtain projects from 8 customers, including governmental entities. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings, for more information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. Opportunities within the government sector could lead to increased governmental regulation applicable to us and unrecoverable startup costs. Most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. As we pursue increased opportunities in the government arena, particularly in our facilities services segment, management’s focus associated with the start-up and bidding process may be diverted away from other opportunities. If we are to be successful in being awarded additional government contracts, a significant amount of costs could be required before any revenues are realized from these contracts. In addition, as a government contractor we are subject to a number of procurement rules and other regulations, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. Government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. Government agencies may review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If government agencies determine through these audits or reviews that costs are improperly allocated to specific contracts, they will not reimburse the contractor for those costs or may require the contractor to refund previously reimbursed costs. If government agencies determine that we are engaged in improper activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and debarment or suspension from doing business with the government. Government contracts are also subject to renegotiation of profit by the government, termination by the government prior to the expiration of the term and non-renewal by the government. A significant portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds. We may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety bonds. Our construction contracts frequently require that we obtain from surety companies and provide to our customers payment and performance bonds as a condition to the award of such contracts. Such surety bonds secure our payment and performance obligations. Surety market conditions have in recent years become more difficult due to the economy and the regulatory environment. Consequently, less overall bonding capacity is available in the market than in the past, and surety bonds have become more expensive and restrictive. Further, under standard terms in the surety market, surety companies issue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing any bonds. Current or future market conditions, as well as changes in our sureties’ assessment of our or their own operating and financial risk, could cause our surety companies to decline to issue, or substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. These actions can be taken on short notice. If our surety companies were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other surety companies, increasing business with clients that do not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. We may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. Accordingly, if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects. We are effectively self-insured against many potential liabilities. Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to a broad range of risks, including automobile liability, general liability, workers’ compensation and employee group health, these policies do not cover all possible claims and certain of the policies are subject to large deductibles. Accordingly, we are effectively self-insured for a substantial number of actual and potential claims. In addition, if any of our insurance carriers defaulted on its obligations to provide insurance coverage by reason of its insolvency or for other reasons, our exposure to claims would increase and our profits would be adversely affected. Our estimates for unpaid claims and expenses are based on known facts, historical trends and industry averages, utilizing the assistance of an actuary. We reflect these liabilities in our balance sheet as “Other accrued expenses and liabilities” and “Other long-term obligations.” The determination of such estimated liabilities and their appropriateness are reviewed and updated at least quarterly. However, these liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to many relevant factors, the effects of which are often unknown, including the severity of an injury or damage, the determination of liability in proportion to other parties, the timeliness of reported claims, the effectiveness of our risk management and safety programs and the terms and conditions of our insurance policies. Our accruals are based upon known facts, historical trends and our reasonable estimate of future expenses, and we believe such accruals are adequate. However, unknown or changing trends, risks or circumstances, such as increases in claims, a weakening economy, increases in medical costs, changes in case law or legislation or changes in the nature of the work we perform, could render our current estimates and accruals inadequate. In such case, adjustments to our balance sheet may be required and these increased liabilities would be recorded in the period that the experience becomes known. Insurance carriers may be unwilling, in the future, to provide our current levels of coverage without a significant increase in insurance premiums and/or collateral requirements to cover our obligations to them. Increased collateral requirements may be in the form of additional letters of credit, and an increase in collateral requirements could significantly reduce our liquidity. If insurance premiums increase, and/or if insurance claims are higher than our estimates, our profitability could be adversely affected. 9 We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial impact relating to occupational, health and safety matters. Our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our robust occupational, health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk, and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and other consequential damages and could lead to suspension of operations, large damage claims and, in extreme cases, criminal liability. Our customers seek to minimize safety risks on their sites and they frequently review the safety records of contractors during the bidding process. If our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time, we might become ineligible to bid on certain work and our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business. If we fail to integrate future acquisitions successfully, this could adversely affect our business and results of operations. As part of our growth strategy, we acquire companies that expand, complement and/or diversify our business. Future acquisitions may expose us to operational challenges and risks, including the diversion of management’s attention from our existing business, the failure to retain key personnel or customers of an acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired business for which there are inadequate reserves and the potential impairment of acquired identifiable intangible assets, including goodwill. Our ability to sustain our growth and maintain our competitive position may be affected by our ability to identify and acquire desirable businesses and successfully integrate any businesses acquired. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill and other identifiable intangible asset impairments. When we acquire a business, we record an asset called “goodwill” equal to the excess amount paid for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets of the business acquired. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) requires that all business combinations be accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting and that certain identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination be recognized as assets apart from goodwill. FASB Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) Topic 350, “Intangibles — Goodwill and Other” (“ASC 350”) provides that goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, and identifiable intangible assets that have finite useful lives should continue to be amortized over their useful lives and be tested for impairment whenever facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be fully recoverable. ASC 350 also provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized identifiable intangible assets for impairment, which we test annually each October 1. ASC 350 requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions to allocate goodwill to reporting units and to determine the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities. Such fair value is determined using discounted estimated future cash flows. Our development of the present value of future cash flow projections is based upon assumptions and estimates by management from a review of our operating results, business plans, anticipated growth rates and margins and the weighted average cost of capital, among others. Much of the information used in assessing fair value is outside the control of management, such as interest rates, and these assumptions and estimates can change in future periods. There can be no assurance that our estimates and assumptions made for purposes of our goodwill and identifiable intangible asset impairment testing will prove to be accurate predictions of the future. If our assumptions regarding business plans or anticipated growth rates and/or margins are not achieved, or there is a rise in interest rates, we may be required, as we were in the second and third quarters of 2010 and in the fourth quarter of 2009, to record goodwill and/or identifiable intangible asset impairment charges in future periods, whether in connection with our next annual impairment testing on October 1, 2011 or earlier, if an indicator of an impairment is present prior to the quarter in which the annual goodwill impairment test is to be performed. It is not possible at this time to determine if any such additional impairment charge would result or, if it does, whether such a charge would be material to our results of operations. An interim impairment review of our goodwill in the third quarter of 2010 resulted in a $210.6 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge within our United States facilities services segment. An interim impairment review of our indefinite lived intangible assets in the second and third quarters of 2010 resulted in an additional $35.5 million non-cash impairment charge as a result of a change in the fair value of various trade names associated with certain prior year acquisitions reported within our United States facilities services segment. Additionally, we performed our annual impairment test as of October 1, and no additional impairment of our goodwill, trade names and/or other identifiable intangible assets was recognized for any of our reporting segments in the fourth quarter of 2010. Amounts included in our backlog may not result in actual revenues or translate into profits. Many of the contracts in our backlog do not require the purchase of a minimum amount of services. In addition, many contracts are subject to cancellation or suspension on short notice at the discretion of the client, and the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contract. We have historically experienced variances in the components of backlog related to project delays or cancellations resulting from weather conditions, external market factors and economic factors beyond our control, and we may experience more delays or cancellations in the future than in the past due to the 10 current economic slowdown. The risk of contracts in backlog being cancelled or suspended generally increase during periods of widespread slowdowns. Accordingly, there is no assurance that backlog will actually be realized. If our backlog fails to materialize, we could experience a reduction in revenues and a decline in profitability, which could result in a deterioration of our financial condition and liquidity. We account for the majority of our construction projects using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting; therefore, variations of actual results from our assumptions may reduce our profitability. We recognize revenues on construction contracts using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting in accordance with ASC Topic 605-35, “Revenue Recognition — Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts”. See Application of Critical Accounting Policies in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, we record revenue as work on the contract progresses. The cumulative amount of revenues recorded on a contract at a specified point in time is that percentage of total estimated revenues that costs incurred to date bear to estimated total costs. Accordingly, contract revenues and total cost estimates are reviewed and revised as the work progresses. Adjustments are reflected in contract revenues in the period when such estimates are revised. Estimates are based on management’s reasonable assumptions and experience, but are only estimates. Variations of actual results from assumptions on an unusually large project or on a number of average size projects could be material. We are also required to immediately recognize the full amount of the estimated loss on a contract when estimates indicate such a loss. Such adjustments and accrued losses could result in reduced profitability, which could negatively impact our cash flow from operations. The loss of one or a few customers could have an adverse effect on us. A few clients have in the past and may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenues in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. Although we have long-standing relationships with many of our significant clients, our clients may unilaterally reduce or discontinue their contracts with us at any time. A loss of business from a significant client could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Certain provisions of our corporate governance documents could make an acquisition of us, or a substantial interest in us, more difficult. The following provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect, as well as Delaware law, could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us, or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock: • our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws; • our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of our stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; • our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of our stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; and • we are subject to provisions of Delaware law, which prohibit us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years following the date such stockholder becomes classified as an interested stockholder. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 11 