RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY Technology changes as required by our customers could limit and impair our ability to produce products. We are currently predominantly dependent on LCD and CRT based technology. We are continuing to develop our expertise and broaden our product line in LCD based technology. As we continue to participate in developing solutions for future technological applications for our customers such as plasma and organic light emitting diode (“OLED”), the need for us to be able to provide a value-added component to the technology remains a critical issue. 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS Technology changes may also initially negatively affect margins. The Company experienced margins on its 2005 LCD contracts that were low due, in part, to start up and learning curve issues. Although the Company learned much from this experience and it was able to reduce its costs faster than selling price declines in 2006 and 2007, it may not be able to improve margins in the future. The loss or interruption of supply from our key suppliers could limit our ability to manufacture our products. We purchase certain materials and components for our products from various suppliers, some of which are located outside of the U.S. We currently have only one source for CRT chassis subassemblies. We currently are obtaining all our LCD chassis subassembly supply from one source. However, we expect to add a second LCD chassis subassembly and final assembly source in the second half 2008. Any loss or interruption of supply from our key suppliers may require us to find new suppliers. The number of suppliers for certain electronic components and raw materials is limited. We could experience production or development delays while we seek new suppliers and could have difficulty finding new suppliers, which would substantially impair our operating results and business. The loss of our significant customer Aristocrat would reduce our revenues and our profitability. Our largest customer, Aristocrat Technologies Pty. Ltd., with whom we have an exclusive supply agreement through June, 2012, accounted for 35%, 29%, and 26% of total revenues in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, and 37%, 37%, and 31% of total accounts receivable in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. A loss of this contract or customer would significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. Our growth could be impaired if we are not able to continue to develop and maintain the success of our Asian subcontract relationships. Our Asian subcontract relationships for both LCD video displays and chassis and CRT video displays and chassis are an important part of our revenue and earnings plan. If we are unable to continue to successfully execute this strategy with our current LCD subcontractor and our current CRT subcontractor and to add a second LCD subcontractor, we may not be able to maintain our revenues and earnings as expected. Intense competition in our industry could impair our ability to grow and achieve profitability. We may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors. The market for our products and services is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive and there are low barriers to entry to our business. We expect this competition to further intensify in the future. Some of our competitors are large companies with greater financial, marketing and product development resources. In addition, new competitors may enter our key markets. This may place us at a disadvantage in responding to our competitors’ pricing strategies, technological advances and other initiatives. 4 TABLE OF CONTENTS The gaming business is heavily regulated and we depend on our ability to obtain/maintain regulatory approvals. The manufacture and distribution of parts for gaming machines are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign regulations, and the governments of the various gaming jurisdictions amend these regulations from time to time. Virtually all of these jurisdictions require licenses, permits, documentation of qualification, including evidence of financial stability, and other forms of approval for manufacturers and distributors of gaming machines and for their key personnel. The revocation or denial of a license in a particular jurisdiction could adversely affect our ability to obtain or maintain licenses in other jurisdictions. The loss of our bank line would severely limit our ability to fund operations. Our current bank line expires August 21, 2010 and requires the Company to maintain certain financial covenants. The Company fully intends to maintain compliance with the covenants under its bank line and expects it will be able to do so. If unsuccessful, the Company would be severely limited in its ability to fund operations. The market price for our shares is susceptible to significant changes in market price. Historically, the volume of trading of our shares has been small. As a result, larger than average buy or sell orders on a given day, or news about us or the gaming industry, has had and may in the future have a significant impact on the trading price for our shares. Available Information The Company files reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission and files all required reports under the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Because we want to provide you with more meaningful and useful information, this Annual Report includes forward-looking statements that reflect our current expectations and projections about our future results, performance, prospects and opportunities. You can find many of these statements by looking for words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “estimate” and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities in 2008 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to the factors described under the heading “Risk Factors” above. We caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Except as otherwise required by federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or any other reason after the date of this Annual Report. 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS 