ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have significant competition in the market for news and advertising, which may reduce our advertising and circulation revenues in the future. Our primary source of revenues is advertising, followed by circulation. In recent years, the advertising industry generally has experienced a secular shift toward digital advertising and away from traditional print media. Circulation volumes have also declined, reflecting general trends in the newspaper industry, including consumer migration toward digital media for news and information. The increasing number of digital media options available on the internet, through social networking tools and through mobile and other devices distributing news and other content, is expanding advertiser and consumer choices significantly. Faced with a multitude of media choices and a dramatic increase in accessible information, consumers may place greater value on when, where, how and at what price they consume digital content than they do on the source or reliability of such content. News aggregation websites and customized news feeds (often free to users) may reduce our traffic levels by minimizing the need for the audience to visit our websites or use our digital applications directly. Online traffic is also driven by internet search results; therefore, such results are critical to our ability to compete successfully. Search engines frequently update and change the methods for directing search queries to web pages or change methodologies and metrics for valuing the quality and performance of internet traffic on delivering cost-per-click advertisements. The failure to successfully manage search engine optimization efforts across our businesses could result in significant decreases in traffic to our various websites, which could result in substantial decreases in conversion rates and repeat business, as well as increased costs if we were to replace free traffic with paid traffic, any or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If traffic levels stagnate or decline, we may not be able to create sufficient advertiser interest in our digital businesses or to maintain or increase the advertising rates of the inventory on our digital platforms. This increased competition for our advertisers and consumers has had and is expected to continue to have an adverse effect on our business and financial results, including negatively impacting revenues and operating income. Our advertising revenues may decline due to weak general economic and business conditions. The U.S. economy continues to be in a period of uncertainty. Certain aspects of the economy, including employment and consumer confidence, remain challenging. These challenging economic conditions have had and are expected to continue to have an adverse effect on our advertising revenues. To the extent these economic conditions continue or worsen our business and advertising revenues will be further adversely affected, which could negatively impact our operations and cash flows and our ability to meet the covenants in our debt agreements. Our advertising revenues will be particularly adversely affected if advertisers respond to weak and uneven economic conditions by reducing their budgets or shifting spending patterns or priorities, or if they are forced to consolidate or cease operations. Consolidation across various industries, particularly large department stores and telecommunications companies, may also reduce our overall advertising revenues. In addition, seasonal variations in consumer spending cause our quarterly advertising revenues to fluctuate. Advertising revenues in the second and fourth quarters, which contain more holidays, are typically higher than in the first and third quarters, in which economic 9 Table of Contents activity is generally slower. If general economic conditions and other factors cause a decline in revenues, particularly during the second or fourth quarters, we may not be able to increase or maintain our revenues for the year, which would have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. To remain competitive, we must be able to respond to and exploit changes in technology, services and standards and changes in consumer behavior, and significant capital investments may be required. Technology in the media industry continues to evolve rapidly. Advances in technology have led to an increasing number of methods for delivery of news and other content and have resulted in a wide variety of consumer demands and expectations, which are also rapidly evolving. For example, the number of people who access online services through devices other than personal computers, including smartphones, handheld tablets and mobile devices has increased dramatically in the past few years and is projected to continue to increase. If we are unable to exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors or adapt to new distribution methods that provide optimal user experiences, our business and financial results may be adversely affected. Technological developments also pose other challenges that could adversely affect our revenues and competitive position. New delivery platforms may lead to pricing restrictions, the loss of distribution control and the loss of a direct relationship with consumers. We may also be adversely affected if the use of technology developed to block the display of advertising on websites proliferates. We have noted changes in readership trends, including a shift of readers to mobile devices. A continued shift of readership to mobile devices without a corresponding increase in mobile advertising revenues could adversely affect our results in the future Technological developments and any changes we make to our business model may require significant capital investments. We may be limited in our ability to invest funds and resources in digital products, services or opportunities and we may incur costs of research and development in building and maintaining the necessary and continually evolving technology infrastructure. Some of our existing competitors and new entrants may have greater operational, financial and other resources or may otherwise be better positioned to compete for opportunities and as a result, our digital businesses may be less successful, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. If we are not successful in growing and managing our digital businesses, our business, financial condition and prospects will be adversely affected. Our future growth depends to a significant degree upon the development and management of our digital businesses. The growth of our digital businesses over the long term depends on various factors, including, among other things, the ability to: •continue to increase digital audiences; •attract advertisers to our websites; •tailoring our product for mobile devices; •maintain or increase the advertising rates on our websites; •exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish our products and services from those of competitors and develop new content, products and services; and •invest funds and resources in digital opportunities. In addition, we expect that our digital business will continue to increase as a percentage of our total revenues in future periods. For the years ended December 29, 2013 and December 30, 2012, digital advertising revenues comprised 23.8% and 21.8%, respectively, of total advertising revenues. Digital-only advertising revenues increased 9.1% in fiscal year 2013, compared to fiscal year 2012. Total digital-only, which includes digital-only revenues from advertising and circulation, were up 11.6% in fiscal year 2013, 10 Table of Contents compared to fiscal year 2012. As our digital business becomes a greater portion of our overall business, we will face a number of increased risks from managing our digital operations, including, but not limited, to the following: •structuring our sales force to effectively sell advertising in the digital advertising arena versus our historical print advertising business; •attracting and retaining employees with skill sets and knowledge base needed to successfully operate in digital business; and •managing the transition to a digital business from a historical print focused business and the need to concurrently reduce the physical infrastructure, distribution infrastructure and related fixed costs associated with the historical print business. If we are unable to execute cost-control measures successfully, our total operating costs may be greater than expected, which may adversely affect our profitability. As a result of adverse general economic and business conditions and our operating results, we have taken steps to lower operating costs by reducing workforce and implementing general cost-control measures. If we do not achieve expected savings from these initiatives, or if our operating costs increase as a result of these initiatives, our total operating costs may be greater than anticipated. These cost-control measures may also affect our business and our ability to generate future revenue. Because portions of our expenses are fixed costs that neither increase nor decrease proportionately with revenues, we are limited in our ability to reduce costs in the short-term to offset any declines in revenues. If these cost-control efforts do not reduce costs sufficiently or otherwise adversely affect our business, income from continuing operations may decline. Continued economic uncertainty and the impact on our business or changes to our business and operations may result in goodwill and masthead impairment charges. Due to business conditions, including lower revenues and operating cash flow and the economic uncertainty, we recorded masthead impairment charges of $5.3 million in fiscal year 2013. We also recorded masthead impairment charges of $2.8 million in fiscal year 2011 and $59.6 million in fiscal year 2008, and $3.0 billion of goodwill and masthead impairment charges in fiscal year 2007. We currently have goodwill of $1.0 billion. Further erosion of general economic, market or business conditions could have a negative impact on our business and stock price, which may require that we record additional impairment charges in the future. Our business, reputation and results of operations could be negatively impacted by data security breaches and other security threats and disruptions. Certain network and information systems are critical to our business activities. Network and information systems may be affected by cyber security incidents that can result from deliberate attacks or system failures. Threats include, but are not limited to, computer hackings, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, or other malicious activities. Our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise. As a result of these breaches, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our data or our users' data or our systems may be compromised. These events evolve quickly and often are not recognized until after an attack is launched, so we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Our network and information systems may also be compromised by power outages, fire, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, war or other similar events. There can be no assurance that the actions, measures and controls we have implemented will be sufficient to prevent disruptions to mission critical systems, the unauthorized release of confidential information or corruption of data. Although we have experienced cyber security incidents, to date none had a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Nonetheless, these types of events are likely to occur in the future and such events could disrupt our 11 Table of Contents operations or other third party information technology systems in which we are involved. A significant breakdown, invasion, corruption, destruction or interruption of critical information technology systems, or infrastructure by employees, others with authorized access to our systems, or unauthorized persons could result in legal or financial liability or otherwise negatively impact our operations. They also could require significant management attention and resources, and could negatively impact our reputation among our customers, advertisers and the public, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. We are subject to significant financial risk as a result of our $1.56 billion in total consolidated debt. As of December 29, 2013, we had approximately $1.56 billion in total principal indebtedness outstanding, including current portion of long-term debt of $28.9 million in 4.625% notes due in November 2014. This level of debt increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and we will likely need to refinance our debt prior to its scheduled maturity. Higher leverage ratios, our credit ratings, adverse financial markets or other factors outside of our control could adversely affect our future ability to refinance maturing debt on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, or the ultimate structure of such refinancing. Covenants in the indenture governing the notes and our other existing debt agreements will restrict our business. The indenture governing our 9.00% Senior Secured Notes due in 2022 (the "9.00% Notes") and our secured credit agreement contain various covenants that limit, subject to certain exceptions, our ability and/or our restricted subsidiaries' ability to, among other things: •incur or assume liens; •incur additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; •issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; •pay dividends or make distributions on capital stock, repurchase, redeem or make payments on capital stock or prepay, repurchase, redeem, retire, defease, acquire or cancel certain of our existing notes or debentures prior to the stated maturity thereof; •make loans, investments or acquisitions; •create or permit restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us or to guarantee our debt, limit our or any of our subsidiaries' ability to create liens, or make or pay intercompany loans or advances; •enter into certain transactions with affiliates; •sell, transfer, license, lease or dispose of our or our subsidiaries' assets, including the capital stock of our subsidiaries; and •dissolve, liquidate, consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all the assets of us and our subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to, another person The restrictions contained in the indenture governing the 9.00% Notes and the secured credit agreement could adversely affect our ability to: •finance our operations; •make needed capital expenditures; •make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into alliances; •withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general; •refinance our outstanding indebtedness prior to maturity; 12 Table of Contents •engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in our interest; and •plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies. Our ability to comply with covenants contained in the indenture for the 9.00% Notes and our secured credit agreement may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Even if we are able to comply with all of the applicable covenants, the restrictions on our ability to manage our business in our sole discretion could adversely affect our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financings, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that we believe would be beneficial to us. In addition, our obligations under the 9.00% Notes and the secured credit agreement are secured, subject to permitted liens, on a first-priority basis, and such security interests could be enforced in the event of default by the collateral agent for the secured credit agreement. In the event of such an enforcement, we cannot assure you that the proceeds from an enforcement would be sufficient to pay our obligations under the 9.00% Notes or secured credit agreement or at all. We have significant financial obligations and in the future, we will need cash to repay our existing indebtedness and meet our other obligations. Our inability to generate sufficient cash to pay our obligations would adversely affect our business. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash internally to repay all of our indebtedness at maturity or to meet our other obligations. As of December 29, 2013, we had approximately $1.56 billion of total indebtedness outstanding and approximately $41.1 million in face amount of letters of credit outstanding under the secured credit agreement. Of the $1.56 billion aggregate principal amount outstanding as of December 29, 2013; we have approximately $28.9 million of notes with an interest rate of 4.625% due in November 2014; approximately $261.3 million of notes with an interest rate of 5.750% due in 2017; $900 million of 9.00% Notes due in 2022; approximately $89.2 million of debentures with an interest rate of 7.150% due in 2027 and approximately $276.2 million of debentures with an interest rate of 6.875% due in 2029. As of the end of fiscal year 2013, the projected benefit obligations of our qualified defined benefit pension plan ("Pension Plan") exceeded Pension Plan assets by $303.2 million. In January 2014, we contributed $25 million of cash to the Pension Plan. We expect this contribution will satisfy all of our required contributions in fiscal year 2014. While amounts of future contributions are subject to numerous assumptions, including, among others, changes in interest rates, returns on assets in the Pension Plan and future government regulations, we estimate that a total of approximately $23 million will be required to be contributed to the Pension Plan in fiscal year 2015. In addition, we have a limited number of supplemental retirement plans, which provide certain key employees with additional retirement benefits. These plans have no assets; however as of December 29, 2013, our projected benefit obligations of these plans was $113.4 million. These plans are on a pay-as-you-go basis. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the 9.00% Notes and our other series of outstanding notes, to make required contributions to the Pension Plan, to fund the supplemental retirement plans and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the 9.00% Notes and our other series of outstanding notes or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before the maturity thereof, reduce or delay capital investments or seek to raise additional capital, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, we may not be able to effect any of these actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 13 Table of Contents Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations or our ability to refinance our existing debt. The terms of existing or future debt instruments, including the indenture governing the 9.00% Notes, may limit or prevent us from taking any of these actions. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our obligations in respect of our outstanding debt. We require newsprint for operations and, therefore, our operating results may be adversely affected if the price of newsprint increases or if we experience disruptions in our newsprint supply chain. Newsprint is the major component of our cost of raw materials. Newsprint accounted for 7.8% of our operating expenses in the year ended December 29, 2013. Accordingly, our earnings are sensitive to changes in newsprint prices. The price of newsprint has historically been volatile and may increase as a result of various factors, including: •declining newsprint supply from mill closures; •reduction in newsprint suppliers because of consolidation in the newsprint industry; •paper mills reducing their newsprint supply because of switching their production to other paper grades; and •a decline in the financial situation of newsprint suppliers. We have not attempted to hedge price fluctuations in the normal purchases of newsprint or enter into contracts with embedded derivatives for the purchase of newsprint other than the natural hedge created by our ownership interest in Ponderay. If the price of newsprint increases materially, operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, we rely on a limited number of suppliers for deliveries of newsprint. If newsprint suppliers experience labor unrest, transportation difficulties or other supply disruptions, our ability to produce and deliver newspapers could be impaired and/or the cost of the newsprint could increase, both of which would negatively affect our operating results. A portion of our employees are members of unions, and if we experience labor unrest, our ability to produce and deliver newspapers could be impaired. If we experience labor unrest, our ability to produce and deliver newspapers could be impaired in some locations. In addition, the results of future labor negotiations could harm our operating results. Our newspapers have not experienced a labor strike for decades. However, we cannot ensure that a strike will not occur at one or more of our newspapers in the future. As of December 29, 2013, approximately 6.3% of full-time and part-time employees were represented by unions. Most of our union-represented employees are currently working under labor agreements, with expiration dates through 2015. We face collective bargaining upon the expirations of these labor agreements. Even if our newspapers do not suffer a labor strike, our operating results could be harmed if the results of labor negotiations restrict our ability to maximize the efficiency of our newspaper operations. In addition, our ability to make short-term adjustments to control compensation and benefits costs, rebalance our portfolio of businesses or otherwise adapt to changing business needs may be limited by the terms and duration of our collective bargaining agreements. 14 Table of Contents We may be required to make greater contributions to our qualified defined benefit pension plans in the next several years than previously required, placing greater liquidity needs upon our operations. The projected benefit obligations of the qualified defined benefit pension plan ("Pension Plan") exceeded Pension Plan assets by $303.2 million as of December 29, 2013, a decrease of $284.7 million from December 30, 2012, primarily due to a favorable change in the discount rate. The value of the Pension Plan assets fluctuates based on many factors, including changes in interest rates and market returns. In January 2014, we contributed $25 million to the Pension Plan, reducing the underfunded obligation to $278.2 million. The excess of benefit obligations over pension assets is expected to give rise to required pension contributions over the next several years. Legislation enacted in the second quarter of 2012 mandated a change in the discount rates used to calculate the projected benefit obligations for purposes of funding pension plans. The new legislation and calculation uses historical averages of long-term highly-rated corporate bonds (within ranges as defined in the legislation) which have an impact of applying a higher discount rate to determine the projected benefit obligations for funding and current long-term interest rates. Also, the Pension Relief Act of 2010 ("PRA") provided relief in the funding requirements of the Pension Plan, and we elected an option that allows the funding related to our 2009 and 2011 plan years required contributions to be paid over 15 years. However, even with the relief provided by these legislative rules, we expect future contributions to be required. In addition, adverse conditions in the capital markets and/or lower long-term interest rates may result in greater annual contribution requirements, placing greater liquidity needs upon our operations. We have invested in certain digital ventures, but such ventures may not be as successful as expected, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We continue to evaluate our business and make strategic investments in digital ventures, either alone or with partners, to further our digital growth. We have, among others, investments with other partners in CareerBuilder LLC, which operates the nation's largest online job website, CareerBuilder.com; Classified Ventures, LLC, which operates Cars.com, Apartments.com and other classified websites; HomeFinder LLC, which operates the real estate website HomeFinder.com; and Wanderful Media, owner of Find n Save®, a digital shopping portal that provides advertisers with a common platform to reach online audiences with digital circulars, coupons and display advertising. The success of these ventures may be dependent to an extent on the efforts of our partners. Further, our ability to monetize the investments and/or the value we may receive upon any disposition may depend on the actions of our partners. As a result, our ability to control the timing or process relating to a disposition may be limited, which could adversely affect the liquidity of these investments or the value we may ultimately attain upon disposition. If the value of the companies in which we invest declines, we may be required to record a charge to earnings. There can be no assurances that we will receive a return on these investments or that they will result in advertising growth or will produce equity income or capital gains in future years. See the Recent Developments discussion below in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Circulation volume declines could adversely affect our circulation and advertising revenues and circulation price increases could exacerbate declines in circulation volumes. Advertising and circulation revenues are affected by circulation volumes and readership levels of our newspapers. In recent years, newspapers have experienced difficulty maintaining or increasing print circulation levels because of a number of factors, including: •increased competition from other publications and other forms of media technologies available in various markets, including the internet and other new media formats that are often free for users; •continued fragmentation of media audiences; 15 Table of Contents •a growing preference among some consumers to receive all or a portion of their news other than from a newspaper; •increases in subscription and newsstand rates; and •declining discretionary spending by consumers affected by negative economic conditions. These factors could also affect our newspapers' ability to institute circulation price increases for print products. Also, print price increases have historically had an initial negative impact on circulation volumes that may not be mitigated with additional marketing and promotion. A prolonged reduction in circulation would have a material adverse effect on advertising revenues. To maintain our circulation base, we may be required to incur additional costs that we may not be able to recover through circulation and advertising revenues. We rely on third party vendors for various services and failure of any of those third parties to fulfill their obligations to us with quality and timeliness we expect, or if our relationship with such vendors is damaged, our business may be harmed. We rely on third party vendors to provide various services such as printing and production, as well as information technology systems. We do not control the operation of these vendors. If any of these third party vendors terminates their relationship with us, or does not provide an adequate level of service, it would be disruptive to our business as we seek to replace the vendor or remedy the inadequate level of service. This disruption may adversely affect our operating results. Developments in the laws and regulations to which we are subject, may result in increased costs and lower advertising revenues from our digital businesses. We are generally subject to government regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. In addition, our websites are available worldwide and are subject to laws regulating the internet both within and outside the United States. We may incur increased costs necessary to comply with existing and newly adopted laws and regulations or penalties for any failure to comply. Advertising revenues from our digital businesses could be adversely affected, directly or indirectly, by existing or future laws and regulations relating to the use of consumer data in digital media. Adverse results from litigation or governmental investigations can impact our business practices and operating results. From time to time, we and our subsidiaries are parties to litigation and regulatory, environmental and other proceedings with governmental authorities and administrative agencies. Adverse outcomes in lawsuits or investigations could result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition as well as our ability to conduct our business as it is presently being conducted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 