D. Risk Factors An investment in the common shares of the Company involves a high degree of risk and must be considered highly speculative due to the nature of the Company’s business and the present stage of exploration and development of its mineral resource properties. Failure to successfully address the risks and uncertainties described below could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations, and the trading price of the Company’s shares may decline and investors may lose all or part of their investment. The principal activity of the Company is mineral exploration, which is inherently risky. Exploration is also capital intensive, and with its sale of the assets related to its 49% interest in the Denton-Rawhide joint venture during fiscal 2009, the Company has no source of income. The risk factors that could affect the Company’s future results include, but are not limited to, those items discussed below. In particular, the following risk factors apply: History of Losses The Company has a history of losses and may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. As of April 30, 2009, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $81.1 million. With the fiscal 2009 sale of its Denton-Rawhide asset, the Company has no source of revenue and there can be no assurance that the Company will realize revenue growth or achieve profitability in the future. Financing Risks The Company’s sources of financing include current cash and cash equivalents and bullion balances. The Company utilizes these funding sources to finance its exploration activities and general and administrative expenses. Additional financing will likely be required in the coming fiscal year in order to meet the Company’s immediate and long term exploration and general and administrative costs. Furthermore, current working capital balances are not sufficient to fund mine development activities at the El Dorado property, should the Company receive the permits allowing it to undertake these activities. There can be no assurance that the Company's exploration programs will result in locating additional commercially exploitable mineral ores or that the Company’s properties will be successfully developed. There can also be no assurance that the underlying assumed levels of expenses will prove to be accurate. There is no assurance that additional funding will be available to the Company in the future to conduct long term exploration and development of its projects or to fulfill its obligations under any applicable agreements. Although the Company has been successful in the past in obtaining financing through the sale of its securities, there can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain adequate financing in the future or that the terms of such financing will be favourable. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in the Company’s failure to remain a going concern or cause the delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration and development of its projects with a possible loss of some properties. Going Concern During the year ended April 30, 2009, the Company incurred a loss of $9,443 (2008 – $15,657) before discontinued operations and as at April 30, 2009 has an accumulated deficit of $81,131 (2008 - $74,855). The Company will require additional funding to maintain its ongoing exploration programs and property commitments as well as for administrative purposes and CAFTA arbitration and negotiation (Note 4(a)). These conditions and risks cast substantial doubt on the validity of the going concern assumption. The Company’s ability to continue operations and exploration activities as a going concern is dependent upon its ability to obtain additional funding. The Company will need to raise sufficient fund to fund ongoing exploration and administration expenses as well as its costs under its CAFTA arbitration. While the Company has been successful in obtaining its required funding in the past, there is no assurance that sufficient funds will be available to the Company in the future. The Company has no assurance that such financing will be available or be available on favourable terms. Factors that could affect the availability of financing include the progress and results of the El Dorado project and its permitting application, the resolution of international arbitration proceedings over the non- issuance of permits in El Salvador, the state of international debt and equity markets, investor perceptions and expectations and the global financial and metals markets. The Company will have to obtain additional financing through, but not limited to, the issuance of additional equity. The consolidated financial statements do not reflect adjustments in the carrying values of the assets and liabilities, the reported revenues and expenses, and the balance sheet classifications used, that would be necessary if the company were unable to realize its assets and settle its liabilities Exploration, Development and Operating Risks Resource exploration, development, and operation is a highly speculative business that involves significant risks, which even a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate. While the discovery of precious metals and other minerals may result in substantial rewards, few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. Major expenses may be required to locate and establish economically viable mineral deposits, to develop metallurgical processes and to construct mining and processing facilities at a particular site. It is impossible to ensure that the exploration or development programs planned by the Company will result in a profitable commercial mining operation. The potential for any project to eventually become an economically viable operation depends on numerous factors including: the quantity and quality of the minerals discovered if any, the proximity to infrastructure, metal and mineral prices (which vary considerably over time) and government regulations. The exact effect these factors can have on any given exploration property can not accurately be predicted but the effect can be materially adverse. Except for the El Dorado Project, on which a pre-feasibility study was completed in 2005, none of the Company's properties have a known body of ore and the Company’s proposed exploration programs are an exploratory search for ore. Although mineral resource estimates included in this document (and/or in previous regulatory documents filed by the Company) have been carefully calculated, prepared, reviewed and/or verified by independent mining experts who are Qualified Persons, and have been reviewed by the Company, these amounts are estimates only and no assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery of gold and/or silver from mineral resources or previously disclosed reserves will in fact be realized or that an identified mineral resource will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) ore body which can be legally and economically exploited. Estimates of mineral resources and reserves, production and capital costs can also be affected by such factors as environmental permitting regulations and requirements, weather, environmental factors, unforeseen technical difficulties, unusual or unexpected geological formations and work interruptions. In addition, the grade of ore ultimately mined may differ from that indicated by drilling results. There can be no assurance that the percentage of gold recovered in small scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in large scale tests under on-site conditions or in production scale ore recovery. The El Dorado Project is the Company’s principal exploration property, which along with its secondary grassroots exploration projects Santa Rita and Zamora-Cerro Colorado, is located in El Salvador. As with most jurisdictions, El Salvador imposes certain requirements and obligations on the owners of exploratory properties including application requirements, periodic reporting requirements, limited terms and certain fees and royalty payments. The Company may acquire interests in properties in other North, Central and South American countries that may place substantial restrictions on the Company’s exploratory and development activities. There can be no assurance that additional significant restrictions will not be placed on the Company's existing or future properties or its operations. Such restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operation. Mining operations generally involve a high degree of risk. The Company’s operations are subject to all of the physical hazards and risks normally encountered in the exploration, development and production of precious metals and other minerals including unusual or unexpected geological formations, seismic activity, rock bursts, cave-ins, flooding and other conditions involved in the drilling and removal of material, any of which could result in damage to or destruction of documents, samples or drill core, damage to life or property, environmental damage and possible legal liability. It may not be possible to insure against these risks, or for economic reasons the Company may elect not to insure against these risks. The payment of liabilities as a result of the occurrence of any of these hazards may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. There can be no assurance that the Company’s exploration and acquisition programs will yield new reserves to expand current resources. The development of the Company’s properties will require the commitment of substantial financial resources to conduct the time-consuming exploration and development of properties. There can be no assurance that the Company will generate any additional revenues or achieve profitability. Reliability of Mineralization Estimates Although the Company has assessed the mineral resource estimates presented herein and mineral resource and reserve estimates documented in other regulatory filings, and believes that the methods used to estimate such mineral reserves and mineral resources are appropriate, such figures are estimates. As well, estimates of mineral reserves and mineral resources are inherently imprecise and depend to some extent on statistical inferences drawn from limited drilling, which may prove unreliable. Furthermore, no assurances can be given that the indicated level of recovery of gold or other minerals will be realized. Market price fluctuations of gold or other minerals may render reserves and deposits containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomic. Moreover, short-term operating factors relating to the mineral reserves, such as the need for orderly development of the deposits or the processing of new or different grades, may cause mining operations to be unprofitable in any particular period. Definitional standards for reporting mineralized material differ between United States reporting standards and the Canadian standards use in this annual report We use the terms “measured resources,” “indicated resources” and “inferred resources” in this annual report on Form 20-F to comply with reporting standards in Canada. We advise U.S. investors that while those terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) does not recognize them. While we have converted a portion of these reserves to proven and probable under Industry Guide 7 reserves, US investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the additional mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into mineral reserves. These terms have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of measured mineral resources, indicated mineral resources, or inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. In accordance with Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources cannot form the basis of a feasibility study or other economic evaluations. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part of the reported measured mineral resource, indicated mineral resource, or inferred mineral resource in this Annual Report is economically or legally mineable. See “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Resource and Reserve Estimates” above. Title to Properties PRES has applied for an exploitation concession over a portion of its El Dorado Project exploration licence area and has carried out the studies required by the authorities for this concession, including an environmental impact study (“EIS”). The approval of the El Dorado EIS by the Salvadoran Ministry of Environmental Natural Resources (“MARN”) is a requirement for approval of the exploitation concession by the Ministry of Economy. The Company cannot say with certainty if or when the authorities in El Salvador will approve the El Dorado EIS or grant PRES an exploitation concession. The exploitation concession application area covers ground protected by an exploration licence granted to PRES that nominally expired in January 2005. Legal opinions secured by the Company indicate that El Salvadoran administrative laws and procedures assure PRES exclusive rights to the proposed exploitation concession area while the application is in process, despite the underlying exploration licence having expired. There can be no assurance however that this opinion will not be challenged by regulatory authorities or other third parties and that PRES’s legal rights to explore within the exploitation concession application area will be upheld indefinitely pending the outcome of the application process. The Company’s exploration properties may be subject to prior unregistered agreements or transfers or local land claims and title may be affected by undetected defects. The Company has investigated and believes it has good title to its properties. However, there is no guarantee that adverse claims to title will not arise in the future, nor can the Company express an opinion on how difficult the resolution of such claims would be under the laws of foreign jurisdictions. Government Law, Environmental and Other Regulatory Requirements The Company’s El Dorado, Zamora-Cerro Colorado and other exploration projects are located in El Salvador and the Company holds or may acquire exploration properties in other North, Central and South American countries. Mineral exploration and mining activities in foreign countries are subject to risks normally associated with the conduct of business in foreign countries and in addition its business activities may be affected in varying degrees by political stability and government regulations as these evolve in sovereign nations. These risks may include foreign labour disputes, invalidation of governmental orders, uncertain political and economic environments, war or civil disturbances, changes in laws, changes in foreign exchange rates, regulations and policies of governments, changes in foreign tax laws, delays in obtaining necessary permits, limitations on the repatriation of earnings and original investments and increased costs of and difficulty in obtaining financing. Currency fluctuations, exchange controls, change to tax regimes and political action could impair the value of the Company’s assets in the foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Mining operations have inherent risks and liabilities associated with possible pollution of the environment and with the disposal of waste products occurring as a result of mineral exploration or the production of metals from producing mines. Laws and regulations involving the protection and remediation of the environment and governmental policies and regulations for the implementation of such laws and regulations are constantly changing and are, in general, becoming more restrictive and more costly to abide by. There may be costs and delays associated with compliance with these laws or regulations that could prohibit the Company from the development or expansion of a mine. Mine closure and reclamation cost requirements could change from current estimates. PRES has experienced significant delays in the processing of its El Dorado EIS and exploitation concession application, and as a result initiated an action against the Government of El Salvador under the Central America-Dominican Republic-United States of America Free Trade Agreement (“CAFTA”) international trade treaty. There can be no assurance that PRES will be successful in either obtaining its sought-after El Dorado exploitation concession, or that any legal challenges Pac Rim has undertaken or that the Company or its subsidiaries may choose to undertake in the future to resolve this issue will be successful. Metal Price Volatility Approximately one half of the Company’s current working capital balance is held in bullion. The conversion of this bullion to cash, as well as the Company's ability to generate profits from any future mining operations, is directly related to the international price of gold, which is outside the Company’s control. The gold price has a history of extreme volatility and there can be significant upward or downward movements in price in a short period of time. Gold prices historically have fluctuated widely and are influenced by a number of factors beyond the control or influence of the Company. Some factors that affect the price of gold include: industrial and jewellery demand; central bank lending or purchases or sales of gold bullion; forward or short sales of gold by producers and speculators; future level of gold production; and rapid short-term changes in supply and demand due to speculative or hedging activities by producers, individuals or funds. Gold prices are also affected by macroeconomic factors including: confidence in the global monetary system; expectations of the future rate of inflation; the availability and attractiveness of alternative investment vehicles; the general level of interest rates; the strength of, and confidence in the U.S. dollar, the currency in which the price of gold is generally quoted, and other major currencies; global and regional political or economic events; and costs of production of other gold producing companies whose costs are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Dependence on Management The success of the operations and activities of the Company is dependent to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of a small number of skilled and experienced executives and personnel. Due to the small size of the Company, the loss of any of these key persons or the inability of the Company to attract and retain additional highly-skilled employees may adversely affect its business and future operations. The Company does not maintain key employee insurance on any of its employees. Conflicts of Interest The Company’s directors and officers may serve as directors or officers of other resource companies or have significant shareholdings in other resource companies and, to the extent that such other companies may participate in ventures in which the Company may participate, the directors of the Company may have a conflict of interest in negotiating and concluding terms respecting the extent of such participation. In the event that such a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of the Company’s directors, a director who has such a conflict will declare their potential conflict and abstain from voting for or against the approval of such participation or such terms. From time to time several companies may participate in the acquisition, exploration and development of natural resource properties thereby allowing for their participation in larger programs, permitting involvement in a greater number of programs and reducing financial exposure in respect of any one program. It may also occur that a particular company will assign all or a portion of its interest in a particular program to another of these companies due to the financial position of the company making the assignment. In accordance with the laws of British Columbia, the directors of the Company are required to act honestly, in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. In determining whether or not the Company will participate in a particular program and the interest therein to be acquired by it, the directors will primarily consider the degree of risk to which the Company may be exposed and its financial position at that time. Competition for Other Assets Significant and increasing competition exists for the limited number of gold acquisition opportunities available worldwide. As a result of this competition, some of which is with large established mining companies having substantial capabilities and substantially greater financial and technical resources than the Company, the Company may be unable to acquire future potential gold mining properties on terms it considers acceptable. The Company also competes with other mining companies in the recruitment and retention of qualified employees. Increased costs could affect our financial condition. We anticipate that costs at our projects that we may explore or develop, will frequently be subject to variation from one year to the next due to a number of factors, such as changing ore grade, metallurgy and revisions to mine plans, if any, in response to the physical shape and location of the ore body. In addition, costs are affected by the price of commodities such as fuel, rubber and electricity. Such commodities are at times subject to volatile price movements, including increases that could make production at certain operations less profitable. A material increase in costs at any significant location could have a significant effect on our profitability. A shortage of equipment and supplies could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are dependent on various supplies and equipment to carry out our mine and development operations. The shortage of such supplies, equipment and parts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to carry out our operations and therefore limit or increase the cost of production. Currency Fluctuations May Affect the Costs of Doing Business The Company’s offices and primary activities are currently located in Canada, the United States, and El Salvador. Gold and silver are sold in international markets at prices denominated in U.S. dollars. However, some of the costs associated with the Company's activities in Canada may be denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Any appreciation of these currencies vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar could increase the Company's cost of doing business in these countries. In addition, the U.S. dollar is subject to fluctuation in value vis-a-vis the Canadian dollar. The Company does not utilize hedging programs to mitigate the effect of currency movements. Insurance Coverage May Be Inadequate The Company has purchased liability insurance that it believes is appropriate for the level of risk incurred, however there are no guarantees that the level of coverage of existing policies can or will be maintained. Furthermore, the Company does not carry insurance for political risk, nor environmental damage or pollution because such coverage cannot be purchased at reasonable costs. This lack of insurance coverage could result in material economic harm to the Company if a significant claim against the Company should occur. Reclamation Risks at Denton-Rawhide During fiscal 2009 the Company sold the assets it held through its 49% interest in the Denton-Rawhide joint venture to its 51% partner Kennecott Rawhide Mining Company (see Item 4). As part of the sale of its interest in Denton-Rawhide, the Company has provided a guarantee on 49% of any reclamation and closure costs in the event that these expenditures were to exceed $7.0 million subsequent to the date of the sale. The Coordinating Committee of the Denton-Rawhide mine estimates total reclamation and severance costs for the Denton-Rawhide mine of $9.8 million. $4.5 million in reclamation and severance costs have already been incurred, leaving an estimated $5.3 million to be expended in the future. This estimate may not be a true reflection of actual reclamation and closure costs of the Denton-Rawhide mine and the Company may recognize a potential future reclamation liability, as per the terms of its sale as described above, should actual reclamation and closure costs exceed $7.0 million in excess of reclamation and severance costs incurred prior to the date of the sale (October 30, 2008). Costs and Compliance Risks as a Result of Being a Public Company Legal, accounting and other expenses associated with public company reporting requirements have increased significantly in the past few years. The Company anticipates that general and administrative costs associated with regulatory compliance will continue to increase with recently adopted corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules implemented by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, Canadian Securities Administrators, the NYSE Amex and the TSX. The Company expects these rules and regulations to continue to result in significant legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to effectively meet all of the requirements of the regulations to which it must comply, including Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 and National Instrument 52-109 of the Canadian Securities Administrators. Any failure to effectively implement new or improved internal controls, or to resolve difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm the Company’s operating results, cause the Company to fail to meet reporting obligations or result in management being required to give a qualified assessment of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting or the Company’s independent auditors providing an adverse opinion regarding management’s assessment. Any such result could cause investors to lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s stock price. The Company also expects these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for it to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and it may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for the Company to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on its board of directors or as executive officers. If the Company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, the Company's ability to provide accurate financial statements and comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and/or National Instrument 52-109 of the Canadian Securities Administrators could be impaired, which could cause the Company's stock price to decrease. Environmental Risks and Hazards The Company’s exploration, development and operational activities are subject to environmental regulation in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. These regulations mandate, among other things, the maintenance of air and water quality standards and land reclamation. They also set forth limitations on the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner that will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. There is no assurance that future changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect the Company’s operations. Environmental hazards may also exist on the Company’s properties that are currently unknown to the Company and that have been caused by previous or existing owners or operators of the properties. Environmental approvals and permits are currently, and may in the future, be required in connection with the operations of the Company. To the extent that such approvals are required and not obtained, the Company may be curtailed or prohibited from continuing in its exploration, development or mining activities or from proceeding with its exploration or development plans for current properties. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions that cause exploration, development or mining activities to cease or be curtailed and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures or remedial actions. In such an event, the Company could be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the Company’s activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Amendments to existing environmental laws and regulations governing exploration, development and mining activities of mining companies, or more stringent application of current laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on the Company causing increases in exploration expenses, capital expenditures or production costs, or a reduction in production levels at producing operations, or require abandonment or delays in development of new mining properties. Future Sales of Common Shares by Existing Shareholders The sale of a large number of common shares of the Company in the public markets, or the potential for such sales, could decrease the trading price of the Company’s common shares and could negatively impact the Company’s ability to raise capital through future sales of common shares. We anticipate that we will raise additional capital through equity financing, which may cause substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. We may require additional equity financing be raised in the future. We may issue securities on less than favorable terms to raise sufficient capital to fund our business plan. Any transaction involving the issuance of equity securities or securities convertible into common shares would result in dilution, possibly substantial, to present and prospective holders of common shares. Foreign Private Issuer Status The Company is currently designated a ”foreign private issuer” as defined in Rule 3b-4 under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for the purposes of U.S. securities law. Although more than 50% of its voting securities are held by U.S. residents, the Company still qualifies for foreign private issuer status by meeting the following conditions: (i) a majority of its executive officers or directors are non-U.S. citizens or residents, (ii) more than 50% of its assets are located outside the U.S., and (iii) the business of the Company is principally administered outside the U.S. The Company may in the future lose its foreign private issuer status if it fails to meet any of the aforementioned criteria. The regulatory and compliance costs to the Company under U.S. securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly more than the costs the Company incurs as a Canadian foreign private issuer. If the Company is not a foreign private issuer it would be required to file periodic and current reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms with the SEC, which are more detailed and extensive than the forms available to a foreign private issuer. In addition, the Company may lose the ability to rely upon exemptions from the NYSE Amex corporate governance requirements that are available to foreign private issuers. This could have a materially adverse impact on the Company’s corporate overhead costs and its ability to raise future financing. You may be unable to enforce U.S. judgments against us or our officers and directors We are incorporated under the laws of the Province of British Columbia, Canada. The majority of our directors are resident in Canada. Consequently, it may be difficult for United States investors to affect service of process within the United States upon us or upon those directors or officers who are not residents of the United States, or to realize in the United States upon judgments. Judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities may be enforceable in Canada by a Canadian court if the U.S. court in which the judgment was obtained had jurisdiction, as determined by the Canadian court, in the matter. There is substantial doubt whether an original action could be brought successfully in Canada against any of such persons or the Company predicted solely upon such civil liabilities. Recent market events and conditions In 2007, 2008 and into 2009, the U.S. credit markets began to experience serious disruption due to a deterioration in residential property values, defaults and delinquencies in the residential mortgage market (particularly, sub-prime and non-prime mortgages) and a decline in the credit quality of mortgage backed securities. These problems led to a slow-down in residential housing market transactions, declining housing prices, delinquencies in non-mortgage consumer credit and a general decline in consumer confidence. These conditions continued and worsened in 2008, causing a loss of confidence in the broader U.S. and global credit and financial markets and resulting in the collapse of, and government intervention in, major banks, financial institutions and insurers and creating a climate of greater volatility, less liquidity, widening of credit spreads, a lack of price transparency, increased credit losses and tighter credit conditions. Notwithstanding various actions by the U.S. and foreign governments, concerns about the general condition of the capital markets, financial instruments, banks, investment banks, insurers and other financial institutions caused the broader credit markets to further deteriorate and stock markets to decline substantially. In addition, general economic indicators have deteriorated, including declining consumer sentiment, increased unemployment and declining economic growth and uncertainty about corporate earnings. These unprecedented disruptions in the current credit and financial markets have had a significant material adverse impact on a number of financial institutions and have limited access to capital and credit for many companies. These disruptions could, among other things, make it more difficult for us to obtain, or increase its cost of obtaining, capital and financing for its operations. The Company’s access to additional capital may not be available on terms acceptable to it or at all. General economic conditions The recent unprecedented events in global financial markets have had a profound impact on the global economy. Many industries, including the gold and base metal mining industry, are impacted by these market conditions. Some of the key impacts of the current financial market turmoil include contraction in credit markets resulting in a widening of credit risk, devaluations and high volatility in global equity, commodity, foreign exchange and precious metal markets, and a lack of market liquidity. A continued or worsened slowdown in the financial markets or other economic conditions, including but not limited to, consumer spending, employment rates, business conditions, inflation, fuel and energy costs, consumer debt levels, lack of available credit, the state of the financial markets, interest rates, and tax rates may adversely affect our growth and profitability. Specifically: The global credit/liquidity crisis could impact the cost and availability of financing and our overall liquidity; the volatility of the gold price may impact our future revenues, profits and cash flow; volatile energy prices, commodity and consumables prices and currency exchange rates impact potential production costs; and the devaluation and volatility of global stock markets impacts the valuation of our equity securities, which may impact our ability to raise funds through the issuance of equity. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 