Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this report, the following factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business and prospects: We are heavily dependent on our RFA product line, our line of specialty access catheters and the development and introduction of new products in order to achieve our sales goals and our profitability and cash flow targets. Failure to achieve and grow market acceptance for either product line or for new products could harm our results of operations and financial condition, including recognition of additional asset impairment charges, and could limit our ability to fund our research and development projects. The majority of our sales are expected to come from the sale of our RFA products and our line of specialty access catheters. To date, our original sales expectations at the time of the consummation of the Horizon merger have not been met because sales of our SAC products declined on a quarterly basis throughout 2005. As a result of not meeting sales expectations for our SAC products, in 2005 we recognized an impairment of some of the intangible assets originally established upon consummation of the Horizon merger. Our future financial performance will primarily depend upon physician adoption and patient awareness of our RFA and SAC products for existing indications or, presuming FDA approval, new indications as well as from sales of new products. Our profitability and cash flows as well as our ability to fund our research and development projects will suffer if physician adoption and patient awareness of our products do not meet our expectations. Furthermore, we may be required to recognize additional asset impairment charges in the future if sales expectations of our SAC product line are not met. If we become unable to meet customer demand through disruption of manufacturing operations, our business could suffer. We have transitioned our California-based manufacturing operations for our RFA products to our Manchester, Georgia location. Our initial production of RFA products in that location resulted in relatively low product yields and relatively high unit costs. If we become unable to meet customer demand for our products, or if the high initial costs associated with manufacture of our RFA products in Georgia do not abate, our business could suffer. Additionally, we expect to begin manufacture of the HABIB 4X™ bipolar resection device in Manchester in 2006. It is possible that initial production of this product could similarly result in low yields or high unit costs, and, if so, our business could suffer. 17 Table of Contents We may need to obtain additional capital to improve our cash liquidity to continue present operations and such additional capital could result in dilution to our stockholders or additional debt repayment obligations. We may need to raise additional funds in the future for our business operations and to execute our business strategy. We may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or utilize our existing credit facility if it is available or to obtain another credit facility. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of debt securities, these securities could have rights that are senior to holders of common stock and could contain covenants that would restrict our operations. Any additional financing, including the use of our existing credit facility or any new credit facility, may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Failure to obtain sufficient funds on acceptable terms when needed or to make timely debt payments may require us to curtail operations, perhaps to a significant extent. We are dependent on two third-party suppliers for the supply of our generators, and any failure to deliver generators to us could result in lower than expected sales. We are dependent on two suppliers to produce our RFA generators. In practice, we rely primarily on only one of these suppliers. Any delay in shipments of generators to us could result in our failure to ship generators to customers and could negatively affect sales, including the disposable electrodes and resection devices which require generators in order to operate. We are dependent on one third-party contractor for the supply of our HABIB 4X™ bipolar resection device, and any failure to deliver this product to us could result in lower than expected sales. We are dependent on one supplier to manufacture our HABIB 4X™ bipolar device. In the quarter ended September 30, 2005, we received reports that the sterile packaging of some of these devices delivered to customers in the United States had been compromised during shipping. We inspected the first manufacturing lots received in the U.S. from our supplier and determined that a problem existed. As a result, we rejected subsequent product shipments from the manufacturer and requested that all products previously shipped to U.S. customers be returned for replacement. As a result, we were not able to sell as many HABIB 4X™ bipolar resection devices in the third quarter of 2005 as we had expected. We resumed shipment of HABIB 4X™ bipolar resection devices in the United States in November 2005 after a packaging redesign was implemented and validated by the manufacturer, and approved by us. The third quarter failure in shipments and any other future delay or failure in shipments of HABIB 4X™ bipolar resection devices to us has resulted in, and in the future may result in, our failure to ship the products to customers, resulting in lower than expected sales. Any material weaknesses identified in our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures could have an adverse effect on our business. Additionally, we have expended substantial resources to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and may be required to expend significant resources in the future. For the year ended December 31, 2004, we identified material weaknesses in our procurement process which prior to adjustment, could have resulted in a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements. As a result of these material weaknesses, we determined that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004. These material weaknesses have been remediated and no material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting have been identified for the year ended December 31, 2005. However, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. A material misstatement in our future annual or interim financial statements could result and our business could suffer. Additionally, we have expended substantial resources to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and may be required to expend significant resources in the future. 18 Table of Contents We have limited experience manufacturing our RFA and SAC disposable devices in substantial quantities, and if we are unable to hire sufficient additional personnel or to purchase additional equipment or are otherwise unable to meet customer demand, our business could suffer. Also, we have consolidated our manufacturing operations at our Manchester, Georgia location, and, prior to September 30, 2004, personnel at that location had essentially no experience in manufacturing our radiofrequency ablation disposable devices. To be successful, we must manufacture our products in substantial quantities in compliance with regulatory requirements at acceptable costs. If we do not succeed in manufacturing quantities of our disposable devices that meet customer demand, we could lose customers and our business could suffer. At the present time, we have limited high-volume manufacturing experience. Our manufacturing operations are currently focused on the in-house assembly of our disposable devices. As we increase our manufacturing volume and the number of product designs for our disposable devices, the complexity of our manufacturing processes will increase. Because our manufacturing operations are primarily dependent upon manual assembly, if demand for our system increases we will need to hire additional personnel and may need to purchase additional equipment. If we are unable to sufficiently staff and equip our manufacturing operations, or are otherwise unable to meet customer demand for our products, our business could suffer. We may be unable to realize all of the anticipated benefits of our merger with Horizon Medical Products. Our merger with Horizon involved the integration of two companies that previously have operated independently, a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining the companies’ operations have included, among other things: • coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds; • consolidating corporate and administrative functions; • consolidating research and development, and manufacturing operations; • coordinating sales and marketing functions; • retaining key employees; and • preserving research and development, collaboration, distribution, marketing, promotion and other important relationships of the companies. We believe that the integration of the two companies was essentially complete as of June 30, 2005. However, as of December 31, 2005, we have only seventeen months of combined operations, and we may, in the future, encounter again any or all of the difficulties in operational integration we have faced in the period since the merger. These difficulties could include an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of the combined company’s business and the loss of key personnel. Further, the diversion of our management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the operation of our geographically disparate organization could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. We have a history of losses and may never achieve profitability. We incurred net losses of $11.0 million in 2005, $9.3 million in 2004 and $11.1 million in 2003. At December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $99.3 million. To become profitable we must increase our sales and continue to limit the growth of our operating expenses. If our sales do not grow, or if expenses grow excessively, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We expect that the implementation of SFAS 123R will negatively impact our profitability in 2006 and beyond. Because we face significant competition from companies with greater resources than we have, we may be unable to compete effectively. The markets for our products are intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. 19 Table of Contents In the market for radiofrequency ablation products, we compete directly with two companies both domestically and internationally: RadioTherapeutics Corporation, a division of Boston Scientific, and Radionics, Inc., a division of Tyco Healthcare, which is a division of Tyco International. Boston Scientific and Tyco International are publicly traded companies with substantially greater resources than we have. Both RadioTherapeutics and Radionics sell products that use radiofrequency energy to ablate soft tissue. Furthermore, in April 2003, we entered into a license agreement with Boston Scientific, its affiliates and licensors, pursuant to which we granted Boston Scientific rights to manufacture and sell products using our infusion technology. As a result, Boston Scientific may develop and sell some competing products that would, in the absence of this license agreement, infringe our patents. In the market for specialty access catheters and ports, we compete directly with C.R. Bard Inc, Boston Scientific and Sims Deltec, Inc. All of these competitors are publicly traded companies with substantially greater resources than what we have. We are also aware of several companies in international markets that sell products that compete directly with ours. These companies are affecting our international market share and may erode that share in the future. In addition, one of these companies, Berchtold Corporation, has received FDA clearance for using radiofrequency energy to ablate soft tissue. Alternative therapies could prove to be superior to our radiofrequency ablation system or our implantable specialty access products, and physician adoption of our products could be negatively affected. In addition to competing against other companies offering products that use radiofrequency energy to ablate soft tissue or implantable vascular products, we also compete against companies developing, manufacturing and marketing alternative therapies that address solid cancerous and benign tumors. If these alternative therapies prove to offer treatment options that are perceived to be superior to our products or to have less severe side effects than those resulting from our products, physician adoption of our products could be negatively affected and our sales could decline. We currently lack long-term data regarding the safety and efficacy of our radiofrequency ablation products and may find that long-term data does not support our short-term clinical results or that further short or long-term studies do not support the safety and efficacy of our radiofrequency ablation products in various applications. If the safety or efficacy of our radiofrequency ablation products is questioned, our sales could decline. Our radiofrequency ablation products are supported by clinical follow-up data in published clinical reports or scientific presentations covering periods from five months to five years after radiofrequency ablation. If additional studies in liver cancer or in other applications fail to confirm or demonstrate the effectiveness of our radiofrequency ablation products, our sales could decline. If longer-term patient follow-up or clinical studies indicate that our procedures cause unexpected, serious complications or other unforeseen negative effects, we could be subject to significant liability. Further, because some of our data has been produced in studies that were retrospective, not randomized, or included small patient populations and because, in certain circumstances, we rely on clinical data developed by independent third party physicians, our clinical data may not be reproduced in wider patient populations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or if we are found to infringe the rights of others, we may lose market share to our competitors and our business could suffer. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products, and yet we may be unable to do so. A number of companies in our markets, as well as universities and research institutions, have issued patents and have filed patent applications that relate to the use of radiofrequency energy to ablate soft tissue or to the design or manufacture of implantable vascular products. 20 Table of Contents Under certain circumstances these patent applications could result in lawsuits against us. Our pending United States and foreign patent applications may not issue or may issue and be subsequently successfully challenged by others. In addition, our pending patent applications include claims to material aspects of our products that are not currently protected by issued patents. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. In the event a competitor infringes on our patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights, such as by filing a lawsuit, may be difficult and time consuming. Even if successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be expensive and time consuming and could divert management’s attention. We may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against a challenge. In addition, confidentiality agreements executed by our employees, consultants and advisors may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, we could lose market share to our competitors and our business could suffer. Our dependence on international sales, which account for a significant portion of our total sales, could harm our business. Because our future profitability will depend in part on our ability to increase product sales in international markets, we are exposed to risks specific to business operations outside the United States. These risks include: • the risk of establishing, expanding and maintaining a direct sales force if any of our existing distributor agreements are terminated, as we have done in Germany, France and the United Kingdom; • the challenge of managing international sales in other international markets without direct access to the end customer; • lower average selling prices for our products, due to distributor discounts; • the risk of inventory build-up by our distributors which could negatively impact sales in future periods; • obtaining reimbursement for procedures using our devices in some foreign markets; • the burden of complying with complex and changing foreign regulatory requirements; • longer accounts receivable collection time; • significant currency fluctuations, which could cause our distributors to reduce the number of products they purchase from us because the cost of our products to them could increase relative to the price they could charge their customers; • reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; and • contractual provisions governed by foreign laws. We are substantially dependent on our Italian distributor and if we lose this distributor, or if this distributor significantly reduces its product demand, our international and total sales could decline. We are substantially dependent on M.D.H. s.r.l. Forniture Ospedaliere, our distributor in Italy, which accounted for 25% and 19% of our international sales for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. International sales accounted for 15% and 16% of our total sales for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The loss of this distributor, or a significant decrease in demand from this distributor, could cause our sales to decline substantially. Our relationships with third-party distributors could negatively affect our sales. We currently sell our products in selected international markets and domestic markets through third-party distributors over whom we have limited control, and, if they fail to adequately support our products, our sales 21 Table of Contents could decline. In the past, we have terminated agreements with distributors and although we contracted with replacement distributors, we expended significant time and resources in doing so, and our sales in the affected markets suffered during the transition period. During 2005, we terminated distributor agreements to initiate direct sales efforts in Germany, the United Kingdom and France and incurred approximately $180,000 in expense in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. We may in the future terminate distributor agreements with the intent to locate new distributors or with the intent to initiate direct sales efforts in specific markets. If our distributors or we terminate other distributor agreements, we could incur similar or more burdensome expenses, we could expend significant time and resources in finding replacement distributors or in establishing a direct sales force, and our sales could decrease during any related transition period. We are aware that some of our distributors have, in the past, built up inventory of our products. As a result, future sales to these distributors could be negatively impacted. Sales to our Japanese distributor in 2004 and 2003 and to a domestic distributor in the three months ended September 30, 2004 were so affected. In addition, while our distributors have no price protection and may only return undamaged products per our return policies, if we permit the return of products in excess of our provision for returns, we will have to adjust our revenues relating to these products. This may also impact our revenue recognition policy on future distributor sales. We have, in the past, experienced collection difficulties, particularly in our international markets. Although these difficulties have been resolved, we may encounter new difficulties with collections that require further increases in our allowance for doubtful accounts in the future, and we may require specific accounts to post letters of credit or pay in advance to minimize our credit risk. Further, we may, in the future, terminate relationships with some of our distributors, making collection of accounts receivable with these customers difficult. Also, the change to direct selling in Germany, France and the United Kingdom may present us with new collections difficulties as we have only very limited collection experience with hospital customers in these countries. We believe our allowance for doubtful accounts sufficiently reflects this possibility, but additional provisions to the allowance for doubtful accounts are could be required. Additional future increases in our allowance for doubtful accounts would reduce our profits or increase our losses. Our business is dependent upon reimbursement from government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and we may face limitations on such third-party reimbursement, which could harm our operating results. In the United States, our products are purchased primarily by hospitals and medical clinics, which then bill various third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans, for the healthcare services provided to patients. Government agencies, private insurers and other payors determine whether to provide coverage for a particular procedure and reimburse hospitals for medical treatment at a fixed rate based on the diagnosis-related group, or DRG, established by the United States Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS. The fixed rate of reimbursement is based on the procedure performed and is unrelated to the specific devices used in that procedure. If a procedure is not covered by a DRG, payors may deny reimbursement. In addition, third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that the device used in a treatment was unnecessary, inappropriate or not cost-effective, experimental or used for a non-approved indication. There can be no assurance that reimbursement for the use of our products will continue at current levels, or that future reimbursement policies of third-party payors will not adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. Failure by hospitals and other users of our products to obtain reimbursement from third-party payors, or changes in government and private third-party payors’ policies toward reimbursement for procedures employing our products, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If customers in markets outside the United States experience difficulty obtaining reimbursement for procedures using our products, international sales could decline. Certain of the markets outside the United States in which we sell our products require that specific reimbursement codes be obtained before reimbursement for procedures using our products can be approved. As a 22 Table of Contents result, in countries where specific reimbursement codes are strictly required and have not yet been issued, reimbursement has been denied on that basis. If our distributors or we are unable to either obtain the required reimbursement codes or develop an effective strategy to resolve the reimbursement issue, physicians in foreign markets may be unwilling to purchase our products, negatively impacting our international sales. We depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel and without additional employees we cannot grow or achieve profitability. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management team, including our Chief Executive Officer as well as key staff in the areas of finance, operations and research and development. During our second quarter ended June 30, 2005, our then Chief Financial Officer announced his resignation effective as of October 2005. His replacement began service with the Company in October 2005. Our future success will depend in part on the continued service of our staff and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional personnel. The markets for qualified management personnel in Northern California, where our headquarters are located, and Georgia, where our primary operating facilities are located, are competitive and expected to remain so. In addition, our Manchester, Georgia facility is located in a rural area and the number of skilled personnel is limited. Because the environment for qualified personnel is so competitive, costs related to compensation may increase significantly. If we are unable to attract and retain both the management team and key personnel we need to support and grow our business, our business will suffer. We are subject to, and may in the future be subject to, costly and time-consuming product liability actions. We manufacture medical devices that are used on patients in both minimally invasive and open surgical procedures and, as a result, we are and may in the future be subject to product liability lawsuits. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure coverage in the future. In addition, we could have to pay any amount awarded by a court in excess of policy limits. Finally, even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim could be time consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of management’s attention from managing our core business. Any failure in our physician training efforts could result in lower than expected product sales. It is critical to our sales effort to train a sufficient number of physicians and to instruct them properly in the procedures that utilize our products. We have established formal physician training programs and rely on physicians to devote adequate time to understand how and when our products should be used. If physicians are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products. Such use may result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injury and related liability or negative publicity that could have an adverse effect on our product sales. We may incur significant costs related to a class action lawsuit due to the likely volatility of our stock. Our stock price is likely to fluctuate owing to market uncertainty about our ability to successfully increase our sales, lower our costs and expenses and manage our cash. Our stock price may also fluctuate for a number of other reasons including: • our ability to repay debt; • our ability to successfully commercialize our products; • our ability to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; • conclusions that our internal control over financial reporting are ineffective; • announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; • quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations; 23 Table of Contents • announcements of technological or competitive developments by us or our competitors; • product liability claims; • regulatory developments regarding us or our competitors; • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; • changes in estimates of our financial performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts; and • general market conditions, particularly for companies with small market capitalizations. Securities class action litigation is often brought against a company after a period of volatility in the market price of its stock. If our future quarterly operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock would likely decline. Stock price fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our common stock is low. Any securities litigation claims brought against us could result in substantial expense and divert management’s attention from our core business. We are dependent on two suppliers as the only sources of a component that we use in our radiofrequency ablation disposable electrodes, and any disruption in the supply of this component could negatively affect our business. We are dependent on two suppliers for a component used in our RFA disposable electrodes. A disruption in the supply of this component is still possible and could negatively affect revenues. If we were unable to remedy a disruption in supply of this component within twelve months, we could be required to redesign the handle of our RFA disposable devices, which could divert engineering resources from other projects or add to product costs. In addition, a new or supplemental filing with applicable regulatory authorities may require clearance prior to our marketing a product containing new materials. This clearance process may take a substantial period of time, and we may be unable to obtain necessary regulatory approvals for any new material to be used in our products on a timely basis, if at all. We are dependent on one supplier as our only source of an accessory device used in conjunction with our Starburst XLi and Xlie lines of disposable devices, and any disruption in the supply of this device could negatively affect our sales. In the past, we have experienced shortages in the supply of accessory infusion pumps used in conjunction with our Starburst Xli and Starburst Xlie lines of disposable radiofrequency devices. We currently have one supplier for our accessory infusion pumps and, although we believe this supplier to be reliable, future disruptions in supply are possible. In that event, our business could suffer due to lower sales or higher costs. Complying with the FDA and other domestic and foreign regulatory authorities is an expensive and time-consuming process, and any failure to comply could result in substantial penalties. We are subject to a host of federal, state, local and foreign regulations regarding the manufacture and marketing of our products. In particular, our failure to comply with FDA regulations could result in, among other things, seizures or recalls of our products, an injunction, substantial fines and/or criminal charges against our employees and us. The FDA’s medical device reporting regulations require us to report any incident in which our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or in which our products malfunctioned in a way that would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction recurred. Sales of our products outside the United States are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. The time required to obtain approvals from foreign countries may be longer than that required for FDA approval or clearance, and requirements for foreign licensing may differ from FDA requirements. For 24 Table of Contents example, some of our newer RFA products have not received approval in Japan. Any failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals for our new products in foreign countries could negatively affect revenues. Product introductions or modifications may be delayed or canceled as a result of the FDA regulatory process, which could cause our revenues to be below expectations. Unless we are exempt, we must obtain the appropriate FDA approval or clearance before we can sell a new medical device in the United States. Obtaining this approval or clearance can be a lengthy and time-consuming process. To date, all of our products have received clearances from the FDA through premarket notification under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or are exempt from the 510(k) clearance process. However, if the FDA requires us to submit a new premarket notification under Section 510(k) for modifications to our existing products, or if the FDA requires us to go through a lengthier, more rigorous examination than we now expect, our product introductions or modifications could be delayed or canceled which could cause our revenues to be below expectations. The FDA may determine that future products will require the more costly, lengthy and uncertain premarket approval process. In addition, modifications to medical device products cleared via the 510(k) process may require a new 510(k) submission. We have, in the past, made minor modifications to the RITA system and to our implantable vascular products. Using the guidelines established by the FDA, we have determined that some of these modifications do not require us to file new 510(k) submissions. If the FDA disagrees with our determinations, we may not be able to sell the RITA system or our implantable vascular products until the FDA has cleared new 510(k) submissions for these modifications, or it may require us to recall previously sold products. In addition, we intend to request additional label indications, such as approvals or clearances for the ablation of tumors in additional organs, including lung, breast, prostate, uterus and kidney, for our current products. The FDA may either deny these requests outright, require additional extensive clinical data to support any additional indications or impose limitations on the intended use of any cleared product as a condition of approval or clearance. Therefore, obtaining necessary approvals or clearances for these additional applications could be an expensive and lengthy process. In addition, in the course of the FDA process leading to clearance or approval for a new indication, the FDA may request an advisory panel meeting or meetings to discuss the clinical data, the appropriate study design or other criteria for clearance or approval. In the event that the advisory panel advises FDA that the clinical data are inadequate or the study design or other criteria are inappropriate, and the FDA concurs, the FDA clearance or approval process could be lengthened and anticipated revenues from that new indication would be delayed. We may acquire technologies or companies in the future, which could result in the dilution of our stockholders and disruption of our business, and reduce our revenues. We are continually evaluating business alliances and external investments in technologies related to our business. Acquisitions of companies, divisions of companies, businesses or products entail numerous risks, any of which could materially harm our business in several ways, including: • diversion of management’s attention from our core business objectives and other business concerns; • failure to integrate efficiently businesses or technologies acquired in the future with our pre-existing business or technologies; • potential loss of key employees from either our pre-existing business or the acquired business; • dilution of our existing stockholders as a result of issuing equity securities; and • assumption of liabilities of the acquired company. Some or all of these problems may result from future acquisitions or investments. Furthermore, we may not realize any value from such acquisitions or investments. 25 Table of Contents Our executive officers and directors could exert significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval. Our executive officers and directors, and their respective affiliates, own approximately 4.3% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2005. These stockholders may, as a practical matter, be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combinations. This concentration of voting stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition or other change of control that a stockholder may consider favorable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 