ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THAT COULD AFFECT OPERATING RESULTS Forward-Looking Information: This report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements regarding the Company’s actual and expected financial performance and operations. These statements are based upon our current expectations and knowledge of factors impacting our business, including, without limitation, statements about the ability to consummate contemplated sales transactions for its assets or investments which may enable debt reduction on anticipated terms, tax benefits from the sale of the (Minneapolis) Star Tribune newspaper, advertising revenues, return on pension plan assets and assumed salary increases, newsprint costs, amortization expense, stock option expenses, prepayment of debt, capital expenditures, litigation, sufficiency of capital resources and possible acquisitions and investments. Such statements are subject to risks, trends and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are generally preceded by, followed by or are a part of sentences that include the words “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” or similar expressions. For all of those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that the following important factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this document and in the documents which we incorporate by reference, could affect the future results of McClatchy and could cause those future results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements: deterioration of general economic, market or business conditions, especially in any of the markets where we operate newspapers; impact of any litigation or any potential litigation; geo-political uncertainties including the risk of war; changes in newsprint prices and/or printing and distribution costs from anticipated levels; changes in interest rates; changes in pension assets and liabilities; increased competition from newspapers, internet sites or other forms of media reaching the markets we serve; increased consolidation among major retailers in our markets or other events depressing the level of advertising; changes in our ability to negotiate and obtain favorable terms under collective bargaining agreements with unions; competitive action by other companies; difficulties in servicing our debt obligations; other occurrences leading to decreased circulation and diminished revenues from retail, classified and national advertising; and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Additional Information Regarding Certain Risks: The Company has significant competition in the market for news and advertising which may reduce its advertising and circulation revenues in the future. The Company’s primary source of revenue is advertising, followed by circulation revenues. In recent years, the advertising industry generally has experienced a secular shift toward internet advertising and away from other traditional media. In addition, the Company’s circulation has declined over the last two years, reflecting general trends in the newspaper industry including consumer migration toward the internet and other media for news and information. The Company has attempted to take advantage of the growth of online media and advertising by operating local internet sites in each of its daily newspaper markets, but faces increasing competition from other online sources for both advertising and circulation revenues. This increased competition has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results, including negatively impacting revenues and margins. Declines in general economic and business conditions, particularly the real estate led declines in California and Florida, subject the Company to risks of declines in advertising revenues. Classified advertising revenues have continued to decline since late 2006 and advertising results declined across the board in fiscal year 2007, but particularly in real estate advertising. Real estate advertising began to weaken in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2006 and has declined substantially since then. A total of 66.9% of the Company’s advertising declines in fiscal 2007 compared to pro forma fiscal 2006 came from California and Florida, two regions that benefited strongly from the real estate boom, and are likewise being hurt in the subsequent real estate slowdown. Advertising revenues were down 15.3% in these regions in fiscal year 2007. The housing sector is an important component of these states’ economies. Hence, California and Florida also 9 Table of Contents account for a majority of the decline in auto and employment advertising, as the real estate downturn appears to be having an impact on these categories as well. The deterioration of general economic and business conditions in California and Florida, may continue to have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results, including negatively impacting revenues and margins. The economic downturn and the decline in the price of the Company’s publicly traded stock may result in goodwill and masthead impairment charges. The Company recorded goodwill and masthead impairment charges of $3.0 billion in 2007 reflecting the economic downturn, particularly in California and Florida, and the decline in the price of the Company’s publicly traded common stock. Should general economic, market or business conditions continue to decline, and continue to have an negative impact on the Company’s stock price, the Company may be required to record additional impairment charges. The Company has $2.5 billion in total consolidated debt which subjects the Company to significant interest and credit risk. As of December 30, 2007, the Company had approximately $2.5 billion in total consolidated debt outstanding. This debt could increase the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. Debt service costs are subject to interest rate changes as well as any changes in the Company’s credit ratings. Negative changes in credit ratings could increase the level of debt service costs and also affect the Company’s future ability to refinance certain maturing debt, or affect the ultimate structure of such refinancing. On November 21, 2007, Standard & Poors lowered its ratings on the Company. The corporate credit rating was lowered to ‘BB’ from ‘BB+’, with a negative rating outlook. On January 11, 2008, Moody’s Investor Services downgraded the Company’s corporate credit rating to ‘Ba2’ from ‘Ba1’. The Company expects that over the next several years its primary use of cash flow from operations will be to reduce debt. In addition, the Company expects to use sales proceeds of certain assets to repay debt. Such proceeds from the sale of land in Miami and SP Newsprint Company (discussed below) are subject to the consummation of the transactions. The Company requires newsprint for operations and, therefore, its operating results may be adversely affected if the price of newsprint increases. Newsprint is the major component of our cost of raw materials. Newsprint accounted for 12.8% of McClatchy’s operating expenses, excluding goodwill and masthead impairment, for fiscal 2007. Accordingly, our earnings are sensitive to changes in newsprint prices. We have not attempted to hedge fluctuations in the normal purchases of newsprint or enter into contracts with embedded derivatives for the purchase of newsprint. If the price of newsprint increases materially, our operating results could be adversely affected. If our newsprint suppliers experience labor unrest, transportation difficulties or other supply disruptions, our ability to produce and deliver newspapers could be impaired and/or the cost of the newsprint could increase, both of which would negatively affect our operating results. The company has entered into an agreement to sell SP, but if the purchase and sale agreement for SP is terminated after it has been executed, the Company may be required to make an equity contribution to pay down debt and fund liquidity needs. On January 7, 2008, the Company entered into a partner support agreement, along with the other general partners, with regard to SP Newsprint Co. (SP). McClatchy is an equal one-third partner in SP. On January 18, 2008, the Company announced that it has entered into an agreement, along with the other general partners of SP, to sell the partnership interests of SP for $350 million in cash. The acquisition is expected to close during the first four months of 2008, subject to regulatory approval. The partner support agreement stipulates that in the event that a purchase and sale agreement for SP is terminated after it has been executed, the partners shall make a cash equity contribution to SP of no greater than $7.3 million per partner to pay down debt and fund liquidity needs. The completion of this sales transaction, as well as the sale of land in Miami may be affected by further disruption in the credit markets. 10 Table of Contents A portion of the Company’s employees are members of unions and if the Company experiences labor unrest, its ability to produce and deliver newspapers could be impaired. If McClatchy experiences labor unrest, our ability to produce and deliver newspapers could be impaired. The results of future labor negotiations could harm our operating results. Our newspapers have not endured a labor strike for decades. However, we cannot ensure that a strike will not occur at one or more of our newspapers in the future. As of December 30, 2007, approximately 5.5% of our full-time and part-time employees were represented by unions. Most of the Company’s union-represented employees are currently working under labor agreements, which expire at various times. McClatchy faces collective bargaining upon the expirations of these labor agreements. Even if our newspapers do not suffer a labor strike, the Company’s operating results could be harmed if the results of labor negotiations restrict our ability to maximize the efficiency of our newspaper operations. The Company has invested in certain internet ventures, but such ventures may not be as successful as expected which could adversely affect the results of operations of the Company. The Company continues to evaluate its business and make strategic investments in digital ventures, either alone or with partners, to further its growth in its online businesses. There can be no assurances that these investments or partnerships will result in growth in advertising or will produce equity income or capital gains in future years. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 