ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company has significant competition in the market for news and advertising, which may reduce its advertising and circulation revenues in the future. The Company’s primary source of revenues is advertising, followed by circulation. In recent years, the advertising industry generally has experienced a secular shift toward internet advertising and away from other traditional media. In addition, the Company’s circulation has declined, reflecting general trends in the newspaper industry including consumer migration toward the internet and other media for news and information. The Company faces increasing competition from other digital sources for both advertising and circulation revenues. This competition has intensified as a result of the continued developments of digital media technologies. 8 Table of Contents Distribution of news, entertainment and other information over the internet, as well as through mobile phones and other devices, continues to increase in popularity. These technological developments are increasing the number of media choices available to advertisers and audiences. As media audiences fragment, the Company expects advertisers to allocate larger portions of their advertising budgets to digital media. This increased competition has had and is expected to continue to have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results, including negatively impacting revenues and operating income. Weak general economic and business conditions subject the Company to risks of declines in advertising revenues. Despite some signs of recovery, the United States economy continues to be in a period of economic uncertainty. Certain aspects of the economy, including real estate, employment and consumer confidence, remain distressed. The economies in California and Florida, where approximately a third of the Company’s advertising revenues are generated, have been particularly hard hit and are recovering more slowly than the national economy. These economic conditions have had and are expected to continue to have an adverse effect on the Company’s advertising revenues. To the extent these economic conditions continue or worsen, the Company’s business and advertising revenues will be adversely affected, which could negatively impact the Company’s operations and cash flows and the Company’s ability to meet the covenants in its senior secured credit agreement. In addition, seasonal variations in consumer spending cause our quarterly advertising revenues to fluctuate. Second and fourth quarter advertising revenues are typically higher than first and third quarter advertising revenues, reflecting the slower economic activity in the winter and summer and the stronger fourth quarter holiday season. If general economic conditions and other factors cause a decline in revenues, particularly during the second or fourth quarters, we may not be able to grow or maintain our revenues for the year, which would have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results. If management is unable to execute cost-control measures successfully, total operating costs may be greater than expected, which may adversely affect the Company’s profitability. As a result of recent adverse general economic and business conditions and the Company’s operating results, the Company has taken steps to lower operating costs by reducing workforce and implementing general cost-control measures. If the Company does not achieve its expected savings from these initiatives, or if operating costs increase as a result of these initiatives, total operating costs may be greater than anticipated. Although management believes that appropriate steps have been taken and are being taken to implement cost-control efforts, such efforts may affect the Company’s business and its ability to generate future revenue. Portions of the Company’s expenses are fixed costs that neither increase nor decrease proportionately with revenues. As a result, management is limited in its ability to reduce costs in the short term. If these cost-control efforts do not reduce costs sufficiently, income from continuing operations may decline. An economic downturn and the decline in the price of the Company’s publicly-traded stock may result in goodwill and masthead impairment charges. The Company recorded masthead impairment charges of $59.6 million in 2008 and $3.0 billion of goodwill and masthead impairment charges in 2007 reflecting the economic downturn and the decline in the price of the Company’s publicly-traded common stock. Further erosion of general economic, market or business conditions could have a negative impact on the Company’s stock price, which may require the Company to record additional impairment charges in the future. The Company owns excess real property whose carrying value may be subject to impairment given the protracted downturn in commercial real estate in recent years. The Company has excess real property that is classified as a “Level 3” classification under applicable accounting rules with respect to fair value guidance. Level 3 classifications are used in cases in which there is 9 Table of Contents limited or no market activity to determine the value of an asset or liability, thereby requiring the reporting entity to make estimates and assumptions related to the pricing of the asset or liability. The Company recorded a write-down of $21.4 million in 2010 and $26.3 million in 2009 on the carrying value of land that was formerly under contract to be sold in Miami, Florida, based on its analysis of an independent appraisal of the property, including the economic downturn and the decline in the fair value of the commercial real estate in Miami. The Company may need to record additional write-downs of excess property if its analysis indicates that its carrying value no longer reflects the fair value of any of the property. Any such write-downs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. The Company has $1.8 billion in total consolidated debt, which subjects the Company to significant financial risk. As of December 26, 2010, the Company had approximately $1.8 billion in total principal indebtedness outstanding. This level of debt increases the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. Higher leverage ratios could affect the Company’s future ability to refinance maturing debt or the ultimate structure of such refinancing. In addition, the Company’s credit ratings could affect its ability to refinance its debt. Covenants in the indenture governing the Company’s 11.50% Senior Secured Notes due 2017 (the “2017 Notes”) and its senior secured credit facility restrict the Company’s operations in many ways. The indenture governing the 2017 Notes and the senior secured credit facility contain various covenants that limit, subject to certain exceptions, the Company’s ability and/or its restricted subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur liens or additional debt or provide guarantees; • issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; • pay dividends or make distributions on capital stock or repurchase capital stock or repurchase outstanding notes or debentures prior to their stated maturity; • make loans, investments or acquisitions; • enter into agreements that restrict distributions from its subsidiaries; • create or permit restrictions on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or distributions or guarantee debt or create liens; • sell assets and capital stock of its subsidiaries; • enter into certain transactions with its affiliates; and • dissolve, liquidate, consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all its assets to another person. The restrictions contained in the indenture for the 2017 Notes and the senior secured credit facility could adversely affect the Company’s ability to: • finance its operations; • make needed capital expenditures; • make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into alliances; • withstand a future downturn in its business or the economy in general; • engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in its interest; and • plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies. 10 Table of Contents The Company’s ability to comply with covenants contained in the indenture for the 2017 Notes and the senior secured credit facility may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Even if the Company is able to comply with all of the applicable covenants, the restrictions on its ability to manage its business could adversely affect its business by, among other things, limiting its ability to take advantage of financings, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that the Company believes would be beneficial to it. Potential disruptions in the credit markets could adversely affect the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements and could adversely affect the Company’s access to capital or to obtain financing at reasonable rates and its ability to refinance existing debt at reasonable rates or at all. If internal funds are insufficient to fund the Company’s operations, the Company may be required to rely on the banking and credit markets to meet its financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as were experienced during 2008 and 2009, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to access additional funds in the capital markets or draw on its senior secured credit facility. There can be no assurance that continued or increased volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets will not impair the Company’s liquidity in future periods. If this should happen, any alternative credit arrangements may not be put in place without a potentially significant increase in the Company’s cost of borrowing. As of December 26, 2010, the Company had approximately $1.8 billion in total principal indebtedness, consisting of $875 million of publicly-traded senior secured notes and unsecured publicly-traded notes maturing in 2011, 2014, 2017, 2027 and 2029. The near-term 2011 notes totaled $18.1 million and the 2014 notes totaled $168.9 million. While cash flow should permit the Company to lower the amount of this debt before it matures, a significant portion of this debt will probably need to be refinanced in the future. Access to the capital markets for longer-term financing may be restricted if disruptions in the capital and credit markets as were experienced during 2008 and 2009 occur again. The Company requires newsprint for operations and, therefore, its operating results may be adversely affected if the price of newsprint increases. Newsprint is the major component of the Company’s cost of raw materials. Newsprint accounted for 9.2% of McClatchy’s operating expenses for fiscal 2010. Accordingly, earnings are sensitive to changes in newsprint prices. The price of newsprint has historically been volatile and may increase as a result of various factors, including: • declining newsprint supply from mill closures; • reduction in newsprint suppliers because of consolidation in the newsprint industry; • paper mills reducing their newsprint supply because of switching their production to other paper grades; and • a decline in the financial situation of newsprint suppliers. The Company has not attempted to hedge fluctuations in the normal purchases of newsprint or enter into contracts with embedded derivatives for the purchase of newsprint. If the price of newsprint increases materially, operating results could be adversely affected. If newsprint suppliers experience labor unrest, transportation difficulties or other supply disruptions, the Company’s ability to produce and deliver newspapers could be impaired and/or the cost of the newsprint could increase, both of which would negatively affect its operating results. 11 Table of Contents A portion of the Company’s employees are members of unions and if the Company experiences labor unrest, its ability to produce and deliver newspapers could be impaired. If McClatchy experiences labor unrest, its ability to produce and deliver newspapers could be impaired in some locations. The results of future labor negotiations could harm the Company’s operating results. The Company’s newspapers have not endured a labor strike for decades. However, management cannot ensure that a strike will not occur at one or more of the Company’s newspapers in the future. As of December 26, 2010, approximately 6.0% of full-time and part-time employees were represented by unions. Most of the Company’s union-represented employees are currently working under labor agreements, which expire in 2012. McClatchy faces collective bargaining upon the expirations of these labor agreements. Even if its newspapers do not suffer a labor strike, the Company’s operating results could be harmed if the results of labor negotiations restrict its ability to maximize the efficiency of its newspaper operations. Under the Pension Protection Act, the Company will be required to make greater contributions to its defined benefit pension plans in the next several years than previously required, placing greater liquidity needs upon its operations. The poor capital markets of 2008 had a significantly negative impact on the investment funds in the Company’s pension plan, which was partially offset by strong returns in the capital markets in 2009 and 2010. However, as a result of the plan’s lower assets, the projected benefit obligations of the Company’s qualified pension plan exceeded plan assets by $479.1 million as of December 26, 2010. The Company made an $8.2 million contribution to its retirement plan in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. In January 2011, McClatchy contributed company-owned real property valued at $49.6 million to its retirement plan that is expected to meet substantially all of the Company’s 2011 funding requirements. Nonetheless, the excess of benefit obligations over pension assets is expected to give rise to an increase in required pension contributions over the next several years. The Pension Relief Act of 2010 (PRA) provides relief in the funding requirements of the qualified defined benefit pension plan, and the Company has elected an option that allows the funding related to its 2009 plan year required contributions to be paid over 15 years (15-year-deferral relief option). Under the PRA, the Company may elect a 15-year-deferral relief option on one additional plan year in the future. However, even with the relief provided by the PRA, management expects future contributions to be substantially higher than the 2010 amounts. In addition, poor capital market performance and/or lower long-term interest rates may result in greater annual contributions. The Company has invested in certain internet ventures, but such ventures may not be as successful as expected, which could adversely affect the results of operations of the Company. The Company continues to evaluate its business and make strategic investments in digital ventures, either alone or with partners, to further its growth in its digital businesses. There can be no assurances that these investments or partnerships will result in advertising growth or will produce equity income or capital gains in future years. If the Company is not successful in growing its digital businesses, its business, financial condition and prospects will be adversely affected. The Company’s future growth depends to a significant degree upon the development of its digital businesses. The growth and success of its digital businesses over the long term depends on various factors, including, among other things the ability to: • continue to increase digital audiences; • attract advertisers to its websites; • maintain or increase the advertising rates on its websites; 12 Table of Contents • exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish its products and services from those of its competitors and develop new content, products and services; and • invest funds and resources in digital opportunities. If the Company is not successful in growing its digital businesses, its business, financial condition and prospects will be adversely affected. Circulation declines could adversely affect the Company’s circulation and advertising revenues. Advertising and circulation revenues are affected by circulation and readership levels of the Company’s newspapers. In recent years, newspapers have experienced difficulty maintaining or increasing print circulation levels because of a number of factors, including: • increased competition from other publications and other forms of media technologies available in various markets, including the internet and other new media formats that are often free for users; • continued fragmentation of media audiences; • a growing preference among some consumers to receive all or a portion of their news other than from a newspaper; • increases in subscription and newsstand rates; and • declining discretionary spending by consumers affected by negative economic conditions. These factors could also affect the Company’s newspapers’ ability to institute circulation price increases for print products. A prolonged reduction in circulation would have a material adverse effect on advertising revenues. To maintain the Company’s circulation base, it may be required to incur additional costs which it may not be able to recover through circulation and advertising revenues. Adverse results from litigation or governmental investigations can impact the Company’s business practices and operating results. From time to time, the Company and its subsidiaries are parties to litigation and regulatory, environmental and other proceedings with governmental authorities and administrative agencies. Adverse outcomes in lawsuits or investigations could result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition as well as our ability to conduct our businesses as they are presently being conducted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 