Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business The seasonality of our sales and economic events may adversely affect our financial results and our ability to service our debt. Our businesses experience seasonal business swings. We experience downturns in the autumn and winter months of the northern hemisphere, which encompasses the vast majority of our markets. This seasonality requires us to manage our cash flows over the course of the year. If our sales were to fall substantially below what we would normally expect during certain periods, our annual financial results would be adversely impacted and our ability to service our debt may also be adversely affected. Weather could adversely affect the demand for our products and decrease our net sales. Demand for our products is influenced by new home starts, remodeling and construction activity. Weather is an important variable affecting our financial performance as it significantly impacts construction activity. Spring and summer months in the U.S. and Europe represent the main construction season for new housing starts and remodeling, as well as increased construction in the commercial and institutional markets. However, adverse weather conditions, such as prolonged periods of cold or rain, blizzards, hurricanes and other severe weather patterns, could delay or halt construction and remodeling activity. For example, an unusually severe winter can lead to reduced construction activity and magnify the seasonal decline in our net sales and earnings during the winter months. In addition, a prolonged winter season can delay construction and remodeling plans and hamper the seasonal increase in our net sales and earnings during the spring months. Demand for building and home improvement products may depend on availability of financing. Many customers who purchase building and home improvement products and our other products depend on financing either by independent consumer finance companies or, to a lesser extent, by independent distributors in order to make purchases. Fluctuations in the prevailing interest rates could affect the availability and cost of financing to our customers. The lack of availability of consumer credit could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by downturns in the markets we serve. Demand in the building and home improvement product industries is influenced by new construction activity and the level of repair and remodeling activity. The level of new construction and repair and remodeling activity is affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including the overall strength of the U.S., U.K. and European economies (including confidence in these economies by our customers), the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets, institutional building activity, the age of existing housing stock, unemployment rates and interest rates. Any declines in new housing or commercial construction starts or demand for replacement building and home improvement products may adversely impact us, and there can be no assurance that any such adverse effects would not be material and would not continue for an indeterminate period of time. Further, while we attempt to minimize our exposure to economic or market fluctuations by serving a balanced mix of end markets and geographic regions, we cannot assure you that a significant or sustained downturn in a specific end market or geographic region would not have a material adverse effect on us. 8 Table of Contents The markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive. We compete against both large international and national rivals, as well as many regional competitors. Some of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Significant competition in any given market can result in substantial pressure on our pricing and profit margins, thereby adversely affecting our financial results. As a result of pricing pressures, we may in the future experience reductions in profit margins. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase the current market share of our products successfully in the future. The loss of any significant customer could adversely affect our business. We have certain customers, such as Lowe’s and Ferguson that are very important to our business. Ferguson accounted for 11.0% of our total sales in fiscal 2006. Our competitors may adopt more aggressive sales policies and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do, which could result in a loss of customers. The loss of one or more of our major customers or deterioration in our relationship with any of them could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. An increase in the price of raw materials, components, finished goods and other commodities could adversely affect our operations. We purchase most of the raw materials for our products on the open market, and rely on third parties for the sourcing of certain finished goods. Accordingly, our cost of products may be affected by changes in the market price of raw materials or sourced components or finished goods. Natural gas and electricity prices have historically been volatile, particularly in California and the U.K., where we have a significant manufacturing presence. We do not generally engage in commodity hedging transactions for raw materials. Significant increases in the prices of raw materials sourced components or finished goods or other commodities could require us to increase the prices of our products, which may reduce consumer demand for our products or make us more susceptible to competition. Furthermore, in the event we are unable to pass along increases in our operating costs to our customers, our margins and profitability may be adversely affected. We are exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. We have significant operations outside the U.S. We currently have operations in Europe, Canada and South America, with approximately 24% of our assets (excluding assets held for sale) located outside the U.S. as of the end of fiscal 2006. Further, certain of our businesses obtain raw materials and finished goods from foreign suppliers. Accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. These risks include: • the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the U.S. and the imposition of withholding requirements on foreign earnings; • the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of foreign labor regulations; • required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; and • changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets. Our business success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. We cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business as a whole. 9 Table of Contents We are subject to currency exchange rate and other related risks. We conduct operations in and generate sales from many areas of the world involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. We are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues. In addition, since our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our earnings. We cannot assure you that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. Actions of this nature, if they occur or continue for significant periods of time, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in any given period. Adverse investment returns and other factors may increase our pension liability and pension expense. We have defined benefit pension plans covering many of our U.S. and U.K. employees, former employees and retirees. Our pension plan assets are invested primarily in equity securities, fixed-income securities and short-term securities. At present, our U.S. aggregate pension plan assets exceed the present value of the accrued benefit liabilities, while the U.K. plan has liabilities that exceed their assets. Under applicable law, we are required to make cash contributions to underfunded pension plans to the extent necessary to comply with minimum funding requirements imposed by regulatory requirements. The amount of such required cash contributions is based on an actuarial valuation of the plans. The funding status of the plans can change as a result of changes in the investment returns on plan assets, discount rates, mortality rates of plan participants, and a number of other factors. We cannot provide assurance that the value of our pension plan assets or the investment returns on plan assets will continue to be sufficient in the future. It is possible that we could be required to make significant additional cash contributions to our plans, which would reduce the cash available for our business and other needs, or to incur a significant pension liability adjustment. Our financial statements are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and necessarily include amounts based on estimates and assumptions made by us or by our actuaries. Actual results could differ from these amounts. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions include allowances for doubtful accounts receivable, carrying values of long-lived assets, liabilities for litigation and claims, liabilities for self-insurance, liabilities for deferred taxes, reserves for future warranty costs, and pension plan liabilities, among others. We are subject to numerous asbestos claims that could adversely affect us. Zurn operates as one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. Zurn, along with many other unrelated companies, is a co-defendant in numerous asbestos related lawsuits pending in the U.S. Plaintiffs’ claims primarily allege personal injuries allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos used primarily in industrial boilers formerly manufactured by a segment of Zurn that has been accounted for as a discontinued operation. For further information, refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings. We are subject to environmental regulation and incur costs relating to environmental matters. Our past and present business operations and our past and present ownership and operation of real property are subject to extensive and changing federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, the generation, storage, use, transportation, handling and disposal of wastes (including solid and hazardous wastes) and the exposure to hazardous substances. If our operating units fail to completely comply with these laws and regulations, we 10 Table of Contents could be fined or otherwise sanctioned or we could incur liability for cleanup costs or other damages. Changes in environmental regulations or their interpretation, or other unanticipated events may also give rise to increased expenditures or liabilities. We are investigating and remediating contamination at a number of present and former operating sites and we have been named as a potentially responsible party at a number of Superfund sites pursuant to CERCLA, RCRA or comparable state statutes. Our actual costs to clean up these sites may exceed our current estimates due to factors beyond our control, such as the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions, changes in environmental laws and regulations and the insolvency of other responsible parties at the sites at which we are involved. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. We believe that a number of our U.S. and foreign patents, patent applications and registered trademarks are important to our success, potential growth and competitive position. Our actions to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights, however, may not prevent imitation of our products by others or prevent others from claiming violations of their trademarks and proprietary rights by us. Any infringement or related claims, even if not meritorious, may be costly and time consuming to defend, may distract management from our business and may result in the loss of significant financial and managerial resources. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on us. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified managerial, marketing and sales personnel. The market for these people is competitive. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to generate sales and to expand our operations successfully, and, in such event, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our success also depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our senior management team. The loss of any member of our senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business plan and could therefore have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Work stoppages and other labor problems could affect us. As of September 30, 2006, 7% of our employees were represented by labor unions. While we believe our relations with our employees are satisfactory, a lengthy work stoppage at any of our facilities could have a material adverse effect on us. The collective bargaining agreements with two local unions in North America (covering 117 employees) are due for renegotiation in fiscal 2010. We also have agreements covering employees in Italy, Malta and the U.K. One agreement expired in May 2003 (covering 198 employees), but remains valid until national representatives negotiate a new agreement; one agreement expires annually (covering 42 employees) and another agreement will expire in December 2007 (covering 119 employees). Negotiations for the extension of these agreements may result in modifications to the terms of these agreements, and these modifications could cause us to incur increased costs relating to our labor force. Our proposed merger with Apollo may not be consummated In the event that the merger agreement is not adopted by our stockholders or if the merger is not completed for any other reason, our stockholders will not receive any payment for their shares in connection with the merger. Instead, we will remain an independent public company and our common stock will continue to be listed on the NYSE. If the merger agreement is terminated, the agreement specifies that under certain circumstances, we will be obligated to pay a termination fee to Apollo which could range from $6 million to $25 million. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information and definitions related to our indebtedness. 11 Table of Contents We have substantial indebtedness and servicing our indebtedness reduces funds available to operate our business. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness could interfere with our ability to operate our business. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other general corporate purposes, including capital expenditures, research and development efforts and working capital; • require us to sell other securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, investing in new products or capital assets or taking advantage of business opportunities; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • place us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors. Our debt instruments contain covenants which will limit our ability to operate our business. Our financing arrangements, including our credit facilities and the indenture governing the senior notes, contain various provisions that limit management’s discretion by restricting our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt or enter into sale-and-lease-back transactions; • pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock; • issue preferred stock of subsidiaries; • make certain investments; • create liens to secure debt; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate with another company; and • transfer and sell assets. In addition, our credit facilities require that we meet specified financial ratios and tests. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or could otherwise restrict corporate activities. Upon our failure to comply with any of the covenants in our financing arrangements, the lenders under those agreements might be able (even without declaring a default) to cause us to use all of our available cash and free cash flow to service their indebtedness or otherwise prevent us from making payments of principal or interest on the senior notes. In addition, if following a default any of our lenders declares an event of default or accelerates our indebtedness, other creditors with cross default provisions in their debt instruments may be able to declare a default and accelerate their indebtedness. If any of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to make the required payments under our indebtedness. 12 Table of Contents To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the senior notes, and to fund operations will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors that are beyond our control. Our historical financial results have been, and we anticipate that our future financial results will be, subject to fluctuations. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facilities or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the senior notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to restructure or refinance any of our indebtedness on satisfactory terms, if at all, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more restrictive covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. 