ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Information: This report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements regarding the Company’s actual and expected financial performance and operations. These statements are based upon our current expectations and knowledge of factors impacting our business, including, without limitation, statements about our ability to consummate contemplated sales transactions for our assets or investments which may enable debt reduction on anticipated terms, our customers and the markets in which we operate, advertising revenues, the economy, our pension plans, including our assumptions regarding return on pension plan assets and assumed salary increases, newsprint costs, our restructuring plans, including projected costs and savings, amortization expense, stock option expenses, prepayment of debt, capital expenditures, litigation, sufficiency of capital resources, possible acquisitions and investments, our future financial performance and; our Company’s ability to achieve and maintain a share price and average price above $1.00 per share of its Class A Common Stock at the expiration of the six-month cure period. Such statements are subject to risks, trends and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are generally preceded by, followed by or are a part of sentences that include the words “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” or similar expressions. For all of those statements, we claim the protection 7 Table of Contents of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that the following important factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this document and in the documents which we incorporate by reference, could affect the future results of McClatchy and could cause those future results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements: the duration and depth of the economic recession; McClatchy may not generate cash from operations, or otherwise, necessary to reduce debt or meet debt covenants as expected; McClatchy may not consummate contemplated transactions to enable debt reduction on anticipated terms or at all; McClatchy may not achieve its expense reduction targets or may do harm to its operations in attempting to achieve such targets; McClatchy’s operations have been, and will likely continue to be, adversely affected by competition, including competition from internet publishing and advertising platforms; commencement by the NYSE of suspension and delisting procedures for failure to implement successfully a plan to correct non-compliance with the NYSE listing standards; even if such minimum price is achieved and maintained, the Company’s inability to continue to satisfy the NYSE’s other qualitative and quantitative listing standards for continued listing; the NYSE’s right to take more immediate listing action in the event that McClatchy’s stock trades at levels that are viewed as “abnormally low” on a sustained basis or based on other qualitative factors; payments may be required related to certain guarantees included in agreements with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation; increases in the cost of newsprint; bankruptcies or financial strain of its major advertising customers; litigation or any potential litigation; geo-political uncertainties including the risk of war; changes in printing and distribution costs from anticipated levels; changes in interest rates; changes in pension assets and liabilities; increased consolidation among major retailers in our markets or other events depressing the level of advertising; our inability to negotiate and obtain favorable terms under collective bargaining agreements with unions; competitive action by other companies; decreased circulation and diminished revenues from retail, classified and national advertising; and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The Company has significant competition in the market for news and advertising which may reduce its advertising and circulation revenues in the future. The Company’s primary source of revenue is advertising, followed by circulation revenues. In recent years, the advertising industry generally has experienced a secular shift toward internet advertising and away from other traditional media. In addition, the Company’s circulation has declined over the last two years, reflecting general trends in the newspaper industry including consumer migration toward the internet and other media for news and information. The Company has attempted to take advantage of the growth of online media and advertising by operating local internet sites in each of its daily newspaper markets, but faces increasing competition from other online sources for both advertising and circulation revenues. This increased competition has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results, including negatively impacting revenues and margins. Declines in general economic and business conditions subject the Company to risks of declines in advertising revenues. The United States economy is undergoing an extended period of economic uncertainty, which has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, limited access to the credit market, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending, and lower consumer net worth. The resulting pressure on the labor and retail markets and the downturn in consumer confidence have weakened the economic climate in most of the markets in which the Company does business and have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the Company’s advertising revenues. Classified advertising revenues have continued to decline since late 2006 and advertising results declined across the board in fiscal year 2008. A continued worsening in these economic conditions could further impact the Company’s business, reduce the Company’s advertising and other revenues and negatively impact the performance of its operations and its ability to meet debt covenants. In addition, these conditions could also impair the ability of those with whom the Company does business to satisfy their obligations to the Company. As a result, the Company’s results of operations may continue to be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents The economic downturn and the decline in the price of the Company’s publicly traded stock may result in goodwill and masthead impairment charges. The Company recorded masthead impairment charges of $59.6 million in 2008 and $3.0 billion of goodwill and masthead impairment charges in 2007 reflecting the economic downturn and the decline in the price of the Company’s publicly traded common stock. Should general economic, market or business conditions continue to decline, and continue to have a negative impact on the Company’s stock price, the Company may be required to record additional impairment charges. The Company may be de-listed from the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) which could cause trading in its stock to become illiquid and negatively affect the price of the Company’s Class A common stock. McClatchy was notified on February 4, 2009 by the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) that it is not in compliance with the NYSE’s continued listing standards. The NYSE’s notice indicated that on February 2, 2009, the Company’s average share price over the previous 30 trading days was $0.98, which is below the NYSE’s quantitative listing standards. Such standards require NYSE listed companies to maintain an average closing price of any listed security above $1.00 per share for any consecutive thirty trading-day period. McClatchy plans to notify the NYSE of its intent to cure this deficiency and has six months from the date of the NYSE notice to cure the non-compliance. However, should the Company be unsuccessful in curing its non-compliance or be de-listed for other reasons, its stock could be traded in an over-the-counter or pink sheet basis which would be less liquid than a more established stock exchange. Such limited trading could negatively impact the share price of the Company’s Class A common stock and lower the value of its equity. On February 26, 2009, the NYSE indicated that it had made an application to the Securities and Exchange Commission to suspend the share price requirement initially through June 30, 2009. The Company has $2.038 billion in total consolidated debt which subjects the Company to significant interest and credit risk. As of December 28, 2008, the Company had approximately $2.038 billion in total consolidated debt outstanding. This debt could increase the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. Debt service costs are subject to interest rate changes as well as any changes in the Company’s leverage ratio (ratio of debt to operating cash flow as defined in the Company’s credit agreement with its banks). Higher leverage ratios could increase the level of debt service costs and also affect the Company’s future ability to refinance certain maturing debt, or the ultimate structure of such refinancing. In addition, the Company’s credit ratings could affect its ability to refinance its debt on favorable terms. On September 17, 2008, Moody’s Investor Services downgraded the Company’s corporate credit rating to ‘B2’ from ‘Ba2’. On February 6, 2009, Standard & Poor’s lowered its corporate credit rating on the Company to ‘CCC+’ from ‘B’, with a negative rating outlook. The ratings on the Company’s bonds were lowered from ‘CCC+’ to ‘CCC-’. The Company expects that over the next several years its primary use of cash flow from operations will be to reduce debt. The national financial crisis and potential disruptions in the credit markets may adversely affect our business, including the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements and could adversely affect our access to capital. If internal funds are not available from our operations we may be required to rely on the banking and credit markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as have been experienced during 2008, could adversely affect our ability to draw on our bank revolving credit facility. Our access to funds under that credit facility is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facility to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Although the Company 9 Table of Contents believes that its operating cash flow and current access to capital and credit markets, including the Company’s existing credit facility, will give it the ability to meet its financial needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that continued or increased volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets will not impair the Company’s liquidity or increase its cost of borrowing. The Company requires newsprint for operations and, therefore, its operating results may be adversely affected if the price of newsprint increases. Newsprint is the major component of our cost of raw materials. Newsprint accounted for 12.7% of McClatchy’s operating expenses, excluding goodwill and masthead impairment, for fiscal 2008. Accordingly, earnings are sensitive to changes in newsprint prices. The Company has not attempted to hedge fluctuations in the normal purchases of newsprint or enter into contracts with embedded derivatives for the purchase of newsprint. If the price of newsprint increases materially, operating results could be adversely affected. If newsprint suppliers experience labor unrest, transportation difficulties or other supply disruptions, the Company’s ability to produce and deliver newspapers could be impaired and/or the cost of the newsprint could increase, both of which would negatively affect its operating results. A portion of the Company’s employees are members of unions and if the Company experiences labor unrest, its ability to produce and deliver newspapers could be impaired. If McClatchy experiences labor unrest, its ability to produce and deliver newspapers could be impaired. The results of future labor negotiations could harm the Company’s operating results. The Company’s newspapers have not endured a labor strike for decades. However, management cannot ensure that a strike will not occur at one or more of the Company’s newspapers in the future. As of December 28, 2008, approximately 5.8% of full-time and part-time employees were represented by unions. Most of the Company’s union-represented employees are currently working under labor agreements, which expire at various times through 2012. McClatchy faces collective bargaining upon the expirations of these labor agreements. Even if its newspapers do not suffer a labor strike, the Company’s operating results could be harmed if the results of labor negotiations restrict its ability to maximize the efficiency of its newspaper operations. Under the Pension Protection Act (PPA), the Company will be required to make greater cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans in the next several years than previously required, placing greater liquidity needs upon its operations. The poor capital markets of 2008 that have affected all investments impacted the funds in our pension plans and they had poor returns in 2008. As a result of the lower assets, the projected benefit obligations of our qualified pension plans exceed plan assets by $611 million as of the end of 2008 compared to an underfunded status of $66 million at the end of 2007. The amount of our underfunded status will be positively impacted by the freezing of the pension plan by an as yet undetermined amount and we have not considered future earnings on plan assets. Nonetheless, the excess of obligations over pension assets is expected to give rise to required pension contributions over the next several years. The PPA funding rules are likely to require the net liability at the end of 2009 to be funded with tax deductible contributions between 2010 and 2015, with approximately 8% to 10% coming due in 2010. While legislation has recently been enacted to give some relief in funding and there may be more related legislation, the contributions may place additional strain on the Company’s liquidity needs. The Company has invested in certain internet ventures, but such ventures may not be as successful as expected which could adversely affect the results of operations of the Company. The Company continues to evaluate its business and make strategic investments in digital ventures, either alone or with partners, to further its growth in its online businesses. There can be no assurances that these investments or partnerships will result in growth in advertising or will produce equity income or capital gains in future years. 10 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 