Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties below represent the risks that our management believes are material. If any of the events or developments discussed below actually occurs, the business, financial condition or results of operations of Thomson Reuters could be adversely affected. Other factors not presently known to us or that we presently believe are not material could also affect our future business and operations. Risks and uncertainties relating to our business and operations are also discussed in the materials that Thomson has filed with or furnished to securities regulatory authorities in Canada and the United States from time to time, including its current annual information form, which is contained in Exhibit 99.1, management’s discussion and analysis of Thomson for the year ended December 31, 2007 filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 20-F. Risks and uncertainties relating to our business and operations are also discussed in the materials that Reuters has filed with or furnished to the securities regulatory authorities in the United Kingdom and the United States from time to time. Risks Related to the Transaction Benefits from the Transaction may not be achieved to the extent, or within the time period currently expected, which could eliminate, reduce or delay the achievement of synergies expected to be generated by the Transaction. Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC operate as a unified group. In addition to the potential revenue growth generated by Thomson Reuters, the Transaction is expected to deliver synergies at an annual run rate in excess of $500 million by the end of the third year after closing from areas such as shared technology platforms, third party content and corporate services. To realize the expected benefits of the Transaction, management of Thomson Reuters must implement a business plan which successfully integrates the Thomson Reuters business. Thomson Reuters may encounter difficulties during the post-closing integration process that could eliminate, reduce or delay the realization of the synergies that are currently expected. Among other things, these difficulties could include: • unexpected integration issues, higher than expected integration costs and an overall post-closing integration process that takes longer than originally anticipated; • the inability to successfully integrate operations, technologies, products and services; • inconsistent and/or incompatible business practices, operating procedures, information systems, financial controls and procedures, cultures and compensation structures between the companies; • difficulty coordinating sales, distribution and marketing efforts to effectively promote Thomson Reuters products; -42- Table of Contents • loss of key employees; • modification or termination of existing agreements with customers and suppliers and delayed entry into new agreements with prospective customers and suppliers; and • the diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day business as a result of the need to deal with integration issues. As a result of these difficulties, the actual synergies generated by the Transaction may be less, and may take longer to realize, than is currently expected. The Transaction may not maximize the growth potential of, or deliver greater value for, Thomson Reuters beyond the level that either Thomson or Reuters could have achieved on its own. One of the principal reasons for the Transaction was to maximize the growth potential of Thomson Reuters beyond the level that either Thomson or Reuters could have achieved on its own. Achieving this growth potential is dependent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond the control of Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters may not be able to pursue successfully innovative product development opportunities or enhance the quality and competitiveness of Thomson Reuters product offerings to the extent anticipated. The inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated growth opportunities from the Transaction, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect upon the revenues, operating results and financial strength of Thomson Reuters. The value of Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares and Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares is related to the economic performance of Thomson Reuters. The dividends, capital returns and the value of Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares and Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares are related to the economic performance of the Thomson Reuters business. For example, economic returns on the shares of each company are dependent on the economic performance of Thomson Reuters and the Thomson Reuters board considers the perspective of Thomson Reuters as a whole in declaring dividends on Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares and Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares. The trading prices of the Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares and the Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares may not be the same and the difference between them may be material. Notwithstanding that the economic interests of the Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares and the Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares are aligned in accordance with the Equalization Ratio, the trading prices of the Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares and the Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares may not be the same (when adjusted for the applicable exchange rate) and the difference between them may be material. The difference may arise for various reasons, including the characteristics of the markets in which they trade, such as trading volumes and currencies. The DLC structure may be adversely affected by changes to legislation and regulations. The DLC structure has been developed on the basis of existing law and policies of regulatory authorities in Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States. Changes to such laws or policies (including changes to tax laws) may impact upon, or alter the rights, benefits or protections afforded to, each of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC and their respective shareholders under the DLC structure. The DLC structure involves risks and costs not associated with more common acquisition structures. The DLC structure is a relatively uncommon way of acquiring a company and it involves different issues and risks than those associated with other more common acquisition structures. The Transaction was implemented by means of contracts between Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC and provisions in their organizational documents and not by operation of a take-over bid for Reuters or a merger or -43- Table of Contents amalgamation of the two companies. The legal effect of these contractual rights may be different than the legal effect of a take-over bid, merger or amalgamation and there may be difficulties in enforcing them. In addition, certain of the contracts between Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC provide that they are enforceable only by the two companies and not directly by their shareholders. Nevertheless, shareholders of either Thomson Reuters Corporation or Thomson Reuters PLC might challenge the validity of the contracts or their lack of standing to enforce rights under these contracts, and courts may interpret or enforce these contracts in a manner inconsistent with the provisions and intentions of the companies expressed in the DLC Documents. There is uncertainty as to the enforceability of provisions of the DLC Documents, including those relating to an insolvency of one company or both companies. For example, in the event of an insolvency of Thomson Reuters PLC, Thomson Reuters Corporation must take actions to restore Economic Equivalence as between the shares of the two companies. There is no assurance that a court would interpret or enforce that obligation in a manner consistent with the terms of the DLC Documents and the intentions of the companies expressed therein. Thomson Reuters has two parent companies, both of which are publicly listed, and complies with both Canadian and UK corporate law and different regulatory and stock exchange requirements in Canada, the UK and the US. This will likely require more administrative time and cost than was the case for Thomson or Reuters. Each of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC is exposed to the credit risk of the other. In light of the Cross-Guarantees, each of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC are exposed to the credit risk of the other. For example, if Thomson Reuters PLC is unable or fails to pay its contractual indebtedness or other obligations, a creditor under a contract may require Thomson Reuters Corporation to pay all amounts due. Changes in the tax residence of Thomson Reuters Corporation or Thomson Reuters PLC could cause adverse tax consequences for Thomson Reuters. It is intended that Thomson Reuters Corporation will remain resident only in Canada for tax purposes and that Thomson Reuters PLC will remain resident only in the UK for tax purposes. However, if Thomson Reuters Corporation were to cease to be resident solely in Canada and/or Thomson Reuters PLC were to cease to be resident solely in the UK for tax purposes (including as a result of changes in applicable laws or in CRA and/or HMRC practice), this could cause adverse tax consequences for Thomson Reuters. If Thomson Reuters PLC were classified as a passive foreign investment company under US federal income tax laws, it could have adverse tax consequences for US holders of Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares (including those represented by Thomson Reuters PLC ADSs). Special rules apply to certain US shareholders that own shares in a non-US corporation that is classified as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”). Thomson Reuters does not believe that Thomson Reuters PLC will be a PFIC for the current taxable year and, based on the strategy for the Thomson Reuters business, does not expect Thomson Reuters PLC to become a PFIC in the foreseeable future. However, the application of the PFIC rules to the DLC structure is uncertain and involves some risk that the IRS will consider Thomson Reuters PLC to be a PFIC. The PFIC rules are extremely complex and could, if they apply, have significant adverse effects on the taxation of dividends received and gains realized by a US shareholder of Thomson Reuters PLC. Accordingly, US shareholders of Thomson Reuters PLC are urged to consult their tax advisers concerning the potential application of PFIC rules to their particular circumstances. See Item 10E. “Taxation” for further details on PFIC classification. US holders of Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares who do not hold their shares through Thomson Reuters PLC ADSs might not qualify for special reduced withholding rates on payments of future dividends from Thomson Reuters PLC. As a result of the Transaction, it is not entirely clear whether US shareholders of Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares would be able to qualify for special reduced withholding rates with respect to the payment of dividends from Thomson Reuters PLC. The ability of US holders of Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares represented by Thomson Reuters PLC ADSs to qualify for these special reduced withholding rates should not be affected by the Transaction, assuming Thomson Reuters PLC is not considered a PFIC. -44- Table of Contents Reuters Founders Share Company holds a Reuters Founders Share in each of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC and may be in a position to affect the governance and management of Thomson Reuters. Reuters Founders Share Company was established to safeguard the Reuters Trust Principles, including the independence, integrity and freedom from bias in the gathering and dissemination of information and news. Reuters Founders Share Company holds a Reuters Founders Share in each of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC. The interest of Reuters Founders Share Company in safeguarding the Reuters Trust Principles may conflict with other business objectives of Thomson Reuters, impose additional costs or burdens on Thomson Reuters or otherwise affect the management and governance of Thomson Reuters. In addition, the Reuters Founders Shares enable Reuters Founders Share Company to exercise extraordinary voting power to safeguard the Reuters Trust Principles and to thwart those whose holdings of voting shares of Thomson Reuters Corporation or Thomson Reuters PLC threaten the Reuters Trust Principles. As a result, Reuters Founders Share Company may prevent a change of control (including by way of a take-over bid or similar transaction) of Thomson Reuters in the future. The effect of these rights of Reuters Founders Share Company may be to limit the price that investors are willing to pay for Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares or Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares. Provisions in the DLC Documents that are designed to ensure that shareholders of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC are treated on an equivalent basis with respect to take-over bids and similar transactions may prevent or discourage take-over bids and similar transactions. Thomson Reuters believes that it is essential to the implementation and operation of the DLC structure that holders of Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares and Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares be treated on an equivalent basis with respect to any take-over bid or similar transaction for such shares. Accordingly, the DLC Documents contain provisions that are intended to impede a person from making a take-over bid or similar transaction for shares of one company without also making an equivalent take-over bid or similar transaction for shares of the other company. The effect of these provisions may be to limit the price that investors are willing to pay for Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares or Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares if these provisions are viewed as preventing or discouraging take-over bids or similar transactions for shares of either company. The rights and privileges of Thomson Reuters Corporation shareholders and Thomson Reuters PLC shareholders are governed by different laws and regulations. Ontario law and the Thomson Reuters Corporation Articles and the Thomson Reuters Corporation By-Laws govern Thomson Reuters Corporation and its relations with its shareholders. UK law and the Thomson Reuters PLC Articles govern Thomson Reuters PLC and its relations with its shareholders. Although the rights and privileges of shareholders of Thomson Reuters Corporation are comparable to those of shareholders of Thomson Reuters PLC, particularly taking into account the effects of the DLC structure, their respective rights and privileges differ in certain respects due to differences between Ontario law and regulations and UK law and regulations and between the Thomson Reuters Corporation Articles and the Thomson Reuters Corporation By-Laws and the Thomson Reuters PLC Articles. Risks Related to the Business and Operations of Thomson Reuters Thomson Reuters may be adversely affected by changes in the general economy. The performance of Thomson Reuters depends on the financial health and strength of its customers, which in turn is dependent on the general economies in its major markets in North America, Europe and Asia. A downturn in the financial markets, a recession in one or more of the countries in which Thomson Reuters operates or significant trading market disruptions or suspensions could adversely affect its business, in particular the financial information businesses of Thomson Reuters. On an unaudited pro forma consolidated basis, approximately 60% of Thomson Reuters revenues for the financial year ended December 31, 2007 were derived from financial information businesses. Cost-cutting by customers in response to a weak economic climate may also adversely affect Thomson Reuters financial results. -45- Table of Contents Thomson Reuters operates in highly competitive markets and may be adversely affected by this competition. The information and news industries are highly competitive and Thomson Reuters has established competitors. Many principal competitors have substantial financial resources, recognized brands, technological expertise and market experience. Thomson Reuters competitors are also expected to enhance continuously their products and services, develop new products and services and invest in technology to better serve the needs of their existing customers and to attract new customers. A number of Thomson Reuters competitors are expected to acquire additional businesses in key sectors that will allow them to offer a broader array of products and services. Thomson Reuters may also face competition from Internet service companies and search providers that could pose a threat to some of its businesses by providing more in-depth offerings, adapting their products and services to meet the demands of their customers or combining with one of their traditional competitors to enhance their products and services. Competition may require Thomson Reuters to reduce the price of its products and services or make additional capital investments that would adversely affect profit margins. If Thomson Reuters is unable or unwilling to do so, it may lose market share and its financial results may be adversely affected. Thomson Reuters may be adversely affected by changes in legislation and regulation. Laws relating to communications, data protection, e-commerce, direct marketing and digital advertising and the use of public records have become more prevalent in recent years. Existing and proposed legislation and regulations, including changes in the manner in which such legislation and regulations are interpreted by courts, in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and other jurisdictions may impose limits on Thomson Reuters collection and use of certain kinds of information and its ability to communicate such information effectively to its customers. It is difficult to predict in what form laws and regulations will be adopted or how they will be construed by the relevant courts, or the extent to which any changes might adversely affect Thomson Reuters. In addition, changes in tax laws and/or uncertainty over their application and interpretation may adversely affect the results of Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters operates in many countries worldwide and its earnings are subject to taxation in many different jurisdictions and at different rates. Thomson Reuters seeks to organize its affairs in a tax efficient manner, taking account of the jurisdictions in which it operates. Tax laws that apply to Thomson Reuters may be amended by the relevant authorities, for example, as a result of changes in fiscal circumstances or priorities. Such amendments, or their application to Thomson Reuters, may adversely affect its results. Increased accessibility to free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for the products and services of Thomson Reuters. In recent years, more public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information have become available, particularly through the Internet, and this trend is expected to continue. For example, some governmental and regulatory agencies have increased the amount of information they make publicly available at no cost. Public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for the products and services of Thomson Reuters. Although Thomson Reuters believes its information is more valuable and enhanced through analysis, tools and applications that are embedded into customers’ workflows, the financial results of Thomson Reuters may be adversely affected if its customers choose to use these public sources as a substitute for Thomson Reuters products or services. Thomson Reuters may be unable to derive fully the anticipated benefits from its existing or future acquisitions, joint ventures, investments or dispositions. Thomson Reuters has acquired, invested in and/or disposed of, and in the future may seek to acquire, invest in and/or dispose of, various companies and businesses. In the future, Thomson Reuters may not be able to successfully identify attractive acquisition opportunities or make acquisitions on terms that are satisfactory to it from a commercial perspective. In addition, competition for acquisitions in the industries in which Thomson Reuters operates is escalating, which could increase costs of acquisitions or cause Thomson Reuters to refrain from making -46- Table of Contents certain acquisitions. Thomson Reuters may also be subject to increasing regulatory scrutiny from competition and antitrust authorities. Achieving the expected returns and synergies from past and future acquisitions will depend in part upon Thomson Reuters ability to integrate the products and services, technology, administrative functions and personnel of these businesses into its segments in an efficient and effective manner. It cannot be assured that Thomson Reuters is able to do so or that its acquired businesses will perform at anticipated levels. If Thomson Reuters is unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses, the anticipated revenues and profits may be lower. Strategies of Thomson and Reuters have also historically resulted in decisions to dispose of assets or businesses that were no longer aligned with strategic objectives. Thomson Reuters has expended, and continues to expend, costs and management resources in an effort to complete these divestitures. Any failures or delays in completing divestitures could have an adverse effect on Thomson Reuters financial results and on its ability to execute its strategy. If Thomson Reuters is unable to develop new products, services, applications and functionalities to meet its customers’ needs, attract new customers or expand into new geographic markets, its ability to generate additional revenues may be adversely affected. The information and news services industries are undergoing rapid evolution. The growth strategy of Thomson Reuters involves developing new products, services, applications and functionalities to meet its customers’ needs for critical information solutions and maintaining a strong position in the sectors that it serves. Thomson Reuters needs to anticipate and respond to its customers’ needs in order to improve its competitiveness. In addition, Thomson Reuters plans to grow by attracting new customers and expanding into new geographic markets. It may take a significant amount of time and expense to develop new products, services, applications and functionalities to meet needs of customers, attract new customers or expand into new geographic markets. If Thomson Reuters is unable to do so, its ability to generate additional revenues may be adversely affected. Thomson Reuters relies heavily on network systems and the Internet and any failures or disruptions may adversely affect its ability to serve its customers. Thomson Reuters is dependent on the ability to handle rapidly substantial quantities of data and transactions on computer-based networks and the capacity, reliability and security of its electronic delivery systems and the Internet. Any significant failure or interruption of these systems, including operational services, loss of service from third parties, sabotage, break-ins, terrorist activities, human error, natural disaster, power or coding loss and computer viruses could cause Thomson Reuters systems to operate slowly or interrupt service for periods of time and could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of its operations. The ability to effectively use the Internet may be impaired due to infrastructure failures, service outages at third party Internet providers or increased government regulation. These events could adversely affect Thomson Reuters ability to store, handle and deliver data and services to customers. The continuing increase in the update rates of market data may impact product and network performance from time to time. Factors that have significantly increased the market data update rates include: • the emergence of proprietary data feeds from other markets; • high market volatility; • decimalization; • reductions in trade sizes resulting in more transactions; • new derivative instruments; • increased automatically-generated algorithmic and program trading; • market fragmentation resulting in an increased number of trading venues; and • multiple listings of options and other securities. -47- Table of Contents Changes in legislation and regulation pertaining to market structure and dissemination of market information may also increase update rates. While Thomson Reuters will implement a number of capacity management initiatives, there can be no assurance that it and its network providers will be able to accommodate accelerated growth of peak traffic volumes or avoid other failures or interruptions. Thomson Reuters is dependent on third parties for information and other services and may not be able to maintain agreements with these parties and the services provided by third parties may not be performed adequately, which may reduce profit margins or market share. Thomson Reuters obtains significant information through licensing arrangements with content providers. Some content providers may seek to increase licensing fees for providing their proprietary content. If Thomson Reuters is unable to renegotiate commercially acceptable licensing arrangements with these content providers or find alternative sources of equivalent content, it may be required to reduce profit margins or experience a reduction in its market share. Operating internationally involves challenges that Thomson Reuters may not be able to meet and that may adversely affect Thomson Reuters ability to grow. There are certain risks inherent in doing business internationally which may adversely affect Thomson Reuters ability to grow. These risks include difficulties in penetrating new markets due to established and entrenched competitors, difficulties in developing products and services that are tailored to the needs of local customers, lack of local acceptance or knowledge of Thomson Reuters products and services, lack of recognition of its brands, unavailability of joint venture partners or local companies for acquisition, instability of international economies and governments, exposure to adverse government action in countries where Thomson Reuters may conduct reporting activities, changes in laws and policies affecting trade and investment in other jurisdictions, and exposure to varying legal standards, including intellectual property protection laws. Adverse developments in any of these areas could cause Thomson Reuters actual results to differ materially from expected results. However, there are also advantages to operating internationally, including a proportionately reduced exposure to the market developments of a single country or region. Thomson Reuters may be unable to realize all of the anticipated cost savings and operating efficiencies from its initiatives designed to make it a more integrated group. Thomson Reuters pursues initiatives designed to make it a more integrated operating group and achieve targeted savings and operating efficiencies, similar to the THOMSONplus program and the Reuters Core Plus program (described below under Item 4A. “History and Development of the Company” and Item 4B. “Business Overview”). These programs involve investing in new revenue initiatives and transformation initiatives, including content and development transformation, common platform development, customer administration and data center rationalization. To accomplish these initiatives, costs must be incurred primarily related to technology, restructuring and consulting services. There is a risk that Thomson Reuters will not achieve the targeted savings and operating efficiencies as quickly as anticipated, or at all, and the future expenses associated with these initiatives may exceed expected levels. The goodwill of Thomson Reuters is key to its ability to remain a trusted source of information and news. The integrity of Thomson Reuters reputation is key to its ability to remain a trusted source of information and news. Failure to protect the Reuters or Thomson brands or failure to uphold the Reuters Trust Principles may adversely impact Thomson Reuters credibility as a trusted supplier of content and may have a negative impact on its information and news business. Thomson Reuters may be subject to impairment losses that would reduce its reported assets and earnings. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets comprise a substantial portion of the total assets of Thomson Reuters. Economic, legal, regulatory, competitive, contractual and other factors may affect the value of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. If any of these factors impair the value of these assets, accounting rules would require that Thomson Reuters reduce their carrying value and recognize an impairment charge, which would reduce its reported assets and earnings in the year the impairment charge is recognized. In particular, the determination of -48- Table of Contents the actual fair values of the assets and liabilities of Reuters as of April 17, 2008 will be completed after the closing of the Transaction and the actual allocation of the purchase price may result in materially different adjustments being expensed in Thomson Reuters statement of earnings from the estimated pro forma purchase price allocation discussed in Item 3A. “Selected Financial Data — Unaudited Canadian GAAP Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Statements of Thomson Reuters Corporation”, under Note 3(iii). Significant investments in technology by Thomson Reuters may not increase its revenues or decrease its operating costs, which may adversely affect its financial results. Thomson Reuters plans to continue to make significant investments in technology, including spending on computer hardware, software, electronic systems, telecommunications infrastructure and digitization of content. It cannot be assured that these significant investments in technology will be able to increase revenues or decrease operating costs and this may adversely affect Thomson Reuters financial results. The customers of Thomson Reuters may become more self-sufficient, which may reduce demand for its products and services and adversely affect its financial results. The customers of Thomson Reuters may decide to develop independently certain products and services that they currently obtain from Thomson Reuters, including through the formation of consortia. To the extent that customers become more self-sufficient, demand for the products and services of Thomson Reuters may be reduced which may adversely affect its financial results. The intellectual property rights of Thomson Reuters may not be adequately protected, which may adversely affect its financial results. Many of the products and services of Thomson Reuters are based on information delivered through a variety of media, including the Internet, software-based applications, books, journals, compact discs, dedicated transmission lines and handheld wireless devices. Thomson Reuters relies on agreements with its customers and patent, trademark, copyright and other intellectual property laws to establish and protect its proprietary rights in its products and services. Third parties may be able to copy, infringe or otherwise profit from the proprietary rights of Thomson Reuters without authorization and the Internet may facilitate these activities. The lack of specific legislation relating to the protection of intellectual property rights for content delivered through the Internet or other electronic formats creates an additional challenge for Thomson Reuters in protecting its proprietary rights in content delivered through these media. Thomson Reuters also conducts business in some countries where the extent of effective legal protection for intellectual property rights is uncertain. It cannot be assured that Thomson Reuters has adequate protection of its intellectual property rights. If Thomson Reuters is not able to protect its intellectual property rights, its financial results may be adversely affected. The credit ratings of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC may be downgraded, or adverse conditions in the credit markets may continue, which may impede Thomson Reuters access to the debt markets or raise its borrowing rates. Access to financing for Thomson Reuters depends on, among other things, suitable market conditions and the maintenance of suitable long-term credit ratings. The credit ratings of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC may be adversely affected by various factors, including increased debt levels, decreased earnings, declines in customer demands, increased competition, the deterioration in general economic and business conditions and adverse publicity. Any downgrades in the credit ratings of Thomson Reuters Corporation or Thomson Reuters PLC, or the continued adverse conditions in the credit markets, may impede Thomson Reuters access to the debt markets or raise its borrowing rates. -49- Table of Contents Thomson Reuters may operate in an increasingly litigious environment, which may adversely affect its financial results. Thomson Reuters may become involved in legal actions and claims arising in the ordinary course of business. Due to the inherent uncertainty in the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal proceeding could have a material adverse effect on the financial position and results of operations of Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters is significantly dependent on technology and the rights related to it, including rights in respect of business methods. This, combined with the recent proliferation of “business method patents” issued by the US Patent Office, and the increasingly litigious environment that surrounds patents in general, increases the possibility that Thomson Reuters could be sued for patent infringement. If such an infringement suit were successful, it is possible that the infringing product would be enjoined by court order and removed from the market and Thomson Reuters could be required to compensate the party bringing the suit either by a damages claim or through ongoing license fees or other fees, and such compensation could be significant, in addition to the legal fees that would be incurred defending such a claim. Currency fluctuations and interest rate fluctuations may have a significant impact on the reported revenues and earnings of Thomson Reuters. The financial statements of Thomson Reuters are expressed in US dollars and are, therefore, subject to movements in exchange rates on the translation of the financial information of businesses whose operational currencies are other than its reporting currency. Thomson Reuters receives revenue and incurs expenses in many currencies and is thereby exposed to the impact of fluctuations in various currency rates. To the extent that these currency exposures are not hedged, exchange rate movements may cause fluctuations in the consolidated financial statements of Thomson Reuters. In addition, an increase in interest rates from current levels could adversely affect the results of Thomson Reuters in future periods. If Thomson Reuters does not continue to recruit and retain high quality management and key employees, it may not be able to execute its strategy. The completion and execution of the strategy of Thomson Reuters depends on its ability to continue to recruit and retain high quality management and other employees across all of its businesses. Thomson Reuters competes with many businesses that are seeking skilled individuals, including those with advanced technological abilities. Thomson Reuters may not be able to continue to identify or be successful in recruiting or retaining the appropriate qualified personnel for its businesses and this may adversely affect its ability to execute its strategy. Thomson Reuters has significant funding obligations in respect of pension and post-retirement benefit arrangements that are affected by factors outside the control of Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters has significant funding obligations in respect of various pension and other post-retirement benefit arrangements that are affected by factors outside the control of Thomson Reuters. The valuations of material plans are determined by independent actuaries. Long-term rates of return for pension plans and post-retirement benefit arrangements are based on evaluations of historical investment returns and input from investment advisors. These valuations and rates of return require assumptions to be made in respect of future compensation levels, expected mortality, inflation, the expected long-term rate of return on the assets available to fund the plans, the expected social security costs and medical cost trends, along with the discount rate to measure obligations. These assumptions are reviewed annually. While Thomson Reuters believes that these assumptions are appropriate given current economic conditions, significant differences in results or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect pension plan and post-retirement benefit obligations and related future expenses for Thomson Reuters. Woodbridge controls Thomson Reuters and is in a position to affect Thomson Reuters governance and operations. Woodbridge has an economic and voting interest in Thomson Reuters of approximately 53%. For so long as Woodbridge maintains its controlling interest in Thomson Reuters, it will generally be able to approve matters submitted to a majority vote of Thomson Reuters -50- Table of Contents shareholders without the consent of other shareholders, including, among other things, the election of the Thomson Reuters board. In addition, Woodbridge may be able to exercise a controlling influence over the business and affairs of Thomson Reuters, the selection of its senior management, the acquisition or disposition of its assets, its access to capital markets, the payment of dividends and any change of control of Thomson Reuters, such as a merger or take-over. The effect of this control may be to limit the price that investors are willing to pay for Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares or Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares. In addition, a sale of shares by Woodbridge or the perception of the market that a sale may occur may adversely affect the market price of Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares and Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares. 