Risk Factors” in Item 1A, including in “IV. Operations and Research and Development Risks”, the risk factor entitled “We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively, and if we are unable to hire, retain or motivate qualified personnel, our ability to sell our products could be harmed.” ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and investors may lose all or part of their investment. This section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto, and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in this Form 10-K. I. Financial and Revenue Risks. We have a history of negative cash flow and losses, which is likely to continue if we are unable to increase our revenues and further reduce our costs. We have never been profitable. We have experienced operating losses in each quarterly and annual period since our inception in 1997, and we may continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. As of June 30, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $674.5 million. Also, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 and each of our prior fiscal years, we had negative operating cash flow, and we expect to continue to incur negative operating cash flow in future periods. There can be no assurance that our business will become profitable in the future or that additional losses and negative cash flows from operations will not be incurred. If these trends continue in the future, it could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. Due to insufficient cash generated from operations, we have funded our operations primarily through the sale of equity securities, debt securities, bank borrowings, equipment lease financings, acquisitions and other strategic transactions. Although we implemented cost reduction programs during the past several years, we continue to have significant fixed expenses, and we expect to continue to incur considerable manufacturing, sales and marketing, product development and administrative expenses. If we fail to generate higher revenues and increase our gross margins while containing our costs and operating expenses, our financial position will be 7 Table of Contents harmed significantly. Our revenues may not grow in the future, and we may never generate sufficient revenues to achieve profitability. If we do not reduce costs and improve our gross margins, our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely impacted. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on our ability to control costs and expenses in relation to sales and to increase our gross margin. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, our gross margin percentage was positive 5%, negative 3% and negative 25%, respectively. Because a significant portion of our manufacturing costs is relatively fixed, our inability to maintain appropriate manufacturing capacity in relation to our sales could negatively impact our gross margin. We may not achieve manufacturing cost levels that will allow us to achieve acceptable gross margins. We are working to minimize fixed costs through the extensive use of contract manufacturing and the relocation of most of our manufacturing operations into a central facility in Bangkok, Thailand. While this is an accepted model of manufacturing in many electronic industries, the use of this model is relatively untested within the optical industry. As such, we have faced and may face execution issues during the implementation period including difficulties managing our supply chain and deliveries to our customers. From a financial viewpoint, should these difficulties occur, we could see negative impacts to revenue, gross margin and inventory levels. For example, we experienced a shortfall in revenue during the quarter ended December 31, 2005, partly as the result of operational issues we experienced in transferring our manufacturing to lower-cost contract manufacturers. These operational issues included capacity constraints at our contract manufacturers, raw materials shortages, logistics issues and manufacturing yield issues for some of our new products. In addition, over our limited operating history, the average selling prices of our existing products have decreased, and we expect this trend to continue. However, our overall product mix has shifted toward products with higher levels of integration, which we typically sell at higher unit prices. Future price decreases may be due to a number of factors, including competitive pricing pressures, rapid technological change and sales discounts. Therefore, to improve our gross margin, we must develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis and reduce our costs of production. Moreover, as our average selling prices decline, we must increase our unit sales volume, or introduce new products, to maintain or increase our revenues. If our average selling prices decline more rapidly than our costs of production, our gross margin will decline, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to continue to generate positive gross margins our cash flows from operations would be negatively impacted, and we would be unable to achieve profitability. We may not realize the anticipated benefits from our restructuring efforts. As part of our cost reduction efforts, over the past several years we have implemented various restructuring programs to realign our resources in response to the changes in the industry and customer demand. These efforts have included transferring most of our manufacturing operations to lower-cost contract manufacturers. Our past restructuring programs may have a material effect on our financial position in the future as we pay severance to employees and rent for excess facilities. We may initiate future restructuring actions, which are likely to result in additional expenses that could affect our results of operations or financial position. There can be no assurance that we will realize the benefits we anticipate from our current or future restructuring programs or that such programs will reduce our operating expenses and improve our cost structure. We may have difficulty obtaining additional capital. Our balance of cash, cash equivalents and unrestricted short-term investments increased from $65.7 million at June 30, 2005 to $67.7 million at June 30, 2006. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, we 8 Table of Contents incurred net losses of $54.7 million and $108.4 million, respectively. There can be no assurance that our business will be profitable in the future or that additional losses and negative cash flows from operations will not be incurred. If these trends continue in the future, it could have an adverse affect on our financial condition. It may be difficult for us to raise additional capital, if and when it is required. In addition, the holders of the notes issued in the May 2005 private placement have imposed certain restrictive covenants, including limits on our future indebtedness and limits on our ability to incur future liens, and make certain restricted payments, which could make it more difficult for us to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes. If adequate capital is not available to us as required, or if it is not available on favorable terms, our business and financial condition would be adversely affected. Compliance with new rules and regulations concerning hazardous materials may be costly and time consuming, and may result in increased costs and a reduction in, or changes in the timing of, our expected revenues. We have completed the process of implementing programs to comply with the newly enacted Restrictions on Hazardous Substances, or RoHS, regulations, which became effective in July 2006 and required certain manufacturers, such as Avanex, to eliminate hazardous substances (e.g. lead, cadmium, mercury, etc.) from commercial products sold to customers in the European Union and Japan. Transitioning our products from non-compliant to RoHS-compliant has been complex, costly, and time consuming. In addition, we face the risk that, in order to minimize any exposure to excess non-RoHS compliant inventories, our customers, may reduce their inventory level from historical levels. While we expect that, once the transition is complete, our customers would restore inventories back to historical levels, such action by our customers and / or distributors could result in a reduction in expected revenue in fiscal 2007 due to the timing of these inventory level adjustments. Lastly, we also face the risk that, in transitioning our products to comply with these new regulations, we could ourselves be left with additional excess quantities of non-RoHS compliant inventory beyond the amount for which we have already recorded an inventory write-down. If any of these risks materialize, our revenues, results of operations, and financial position could be harmed. Our future revenues and operating results are inherently unpredictable, and as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated significantly from quarter-to-quarter in the past, and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Factors that are likely to cause these fluctuations, some of which are outside of our control, include, without limitation, the following: • the current economic environment and other developments in the telecommunications industry, including the severe business setbacks of customers or potential customers and the current perceived oversupply of communications bandwidth; • the mix of our products sold; • our ability to control expenses; • fluctuations in demand for and sales of our products, which will depend upon the speed and magnitude of the transition to an all-optical network, the acceptance of our products in the marketplace, and the general level of spending on infrastructure projects in the telecommunications industry; • cancellations of orders and shipment rescheduling; • changes in product specifications required by customers for existing and future products; • satisfaction of contractual customer acceptance criteria and related revenue recognition issues; • our ability to maintain appropriate manufacturing capacity through our contract manufacturers; • our ability to successfully complete a transition to an outsourced manufacturing model; • the ability of our outsourced manufacturers to timely produce and deliver subcomponents, and possibly complete products in the quantity and of the quality we require; 9 Table of Contents • the current practice of companies in the telecommunications industry of sporadically placing large orders with short lead times; • our ability to comply with new rules and regulations, such as newly enacted Restrictions on Hazardous Substances, or RoHS, regulations; • competitive factors, including the introduction of new products and product enhancements by competitors and potential competitors, pricing pressures, and the competitive environment in the markets into which we sell our photonic processing solutions and products, including competitors with substantially greater resources than we have; • our ability to effectively develop, introduce, manufacture, and ship new and enhanced products in a timely manner without defects; • the availability and cost of components for our products; • new product introductions that may result in increased research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses that are incurred in one quarter, with revenues, if any, that are not recognized until a subsequent quarter; • the unpredictability of customer demand and difficulties in meeting such demand; • revisions to our estimated reserves and allowances, as well as other accounting provisions or charges; • costs associated with, and the outcome of, any litigation to which we are, or may become, a party; and • customer perception of our financial condition and resulting effects on our orders and revenue. For example, we experienced a shortfall in revenue during the quarter ended December 31, 2005, partly as the result of operational issues we experienced in transferring our manufacturing to lower-cost contract manufacturers. These operational issues included capacity constraints at our contract manufacturers, raw material shortages, logistics issues and manufacturing yield issues for some of our new products. A high percentage of our expenses, including those related to manufacturing, engineering, sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative functions, are fixed in the short term. As a result, if we experience delays in generating and recognizing revenue, our quarterly operating results are likely to be seriously harmed. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. Our results for one quarter should not be relied upon as any indication of our future performance. It is possible that in future quarters our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock would likely decrease. A lack of effective internal control over financial reporting could result in an inability to accurately report our financial results, which could lead to a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, deficiencies in our internal controls. For example, as more fully described in Item 9A “Controls and Procedures,” as of June 30, 2006, our management concluded that we did not maintain effective internal controls over the following: • Company level controls; • Preparation and review procedures over account reconciliations and related journal entries; • Controls over accounts receivable and warranty reserves; • Controls over inventory; 10 Table of Contents • Controls over pension accounting; and • Controls over stock-based compensation. Our management determined that these control deficiencies were considered material weaknesses that could result in a material misstatement to annual or interim financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. As a result, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of June 30, 2006 using the criteria set forth in the Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). A failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, including a failure to implement corrective actions to address the control deficiencies identified above, could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements or otherwise cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. This, in turn, could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results and our stock price, and we could be subject to stockholder litigation. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq, has required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more time consuming and costly. In addition, we incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We also expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board or as an executive. Our stock price is highly volatile. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly since our initial public offering in February 2000, and is likely to remain volatile in the future. For example, during fiscal 2006, our common stock has closed as low as $0.62 and as high as $3.29 per share. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many events or factors, including the following: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • significant developments in the businesses of telecommunications companies; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations or financial results of telecommunications-related companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of technology innovations, new products, or significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • any deviation from projected growth rates in revenues; • any loss of a major customer or a major customer order; • the ability to meet our debt obligations; • additions or departures of key management or engineering personnel; • any deviations in our net revenue or in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; • activities of short sellers and risk arbitrageurs; • future sales of our common stock or the availability of additional financing; 11 Table of Contents • volume fluctuations, which are particularly common among highly volatile securities of telecommunications-related companies; and • material weaknesses in internal controls. In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many high technology companies, which often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As long as we continue to depend on a limited customer base and a limited number of products, there is substantial risk that our quarterly results will fluctuate. In July 2003, we issued an aggregate of 56,844,376 shares of our common stock to Alcatel and Corning Incorporated in connection with our acquisitions of the optical components businesses of Alcatel and Corning. Alcatel owned shares of Avanex common stock representing 14% of the outstanding shares of Avanex common stock as of September 22, 2006, and as of that date, Corning no longer held shares of Avanex common stock. In connection with these acquisitions, we entered into a stockholders’ agreement with Alcatel and Corning. Pursuant to the stockholders’ agreement, we registered 56,844,376 shares of common stock on behalf of Alcatel and Corning in July 2004. Certain restrictions on transfer continue to apply to Alcatel. From January 1, 2006 through June 30, 2006, Alcatel was permitted to sell one-third of its remaining shares, and from July 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006, Alcatel will be permitted to sell another one-third of its remaining shares. After January 1, 2007, Alcatel will no longer be subject to such selling restrictions. Notwithstanding such selling restrictions, Alcatel is free to sell any of its shares when the sales price is at least $2.00 per share. If Alcatel or our other stockholders, including our convertible note holders, sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, it could cause the market price of our common stock to fall, and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital through public offerings or other sales of our capital stock. If the investors in our May 2005 financing (certain terms of which were amended in November 2005) continue to convert their notes or exercise their warrants, it will continue to have a dilutive effect upon our stockholders. In May 2005 we issued notes and warrants to certain institutional investors, and in November 2005 certain terms of such convertible note financing were amended. Pursuant to the terms of the amended and restated notes, the holders of such notes may convert the notes into shares of common stock at any time prior to their maturity at a conversion price of $0.90 per share, subject to broad-based anti-dilution provisions. The anti-dilution provisions also provide for an adjustment for stock splits and certain other situations specified in the notes. Subject to certain conditions, at any time after May 19, 2007, we can automatically convert all of the outstanding notes into common stock if the weighted average price of the common stock of Avanex equals or exceeds 175% of the conversion price for a specified period. The warrants are exercisable for a term of 3 years at an exercise price of $1.13 per share, subject to broad-based anti-dilution provisions similar to the provisions set forth in the notes. If the institutional investors convert the notes or exercise the warrants, we will issue shares of our common stock and such issuances will be dilutive to our stockholders. For example, since January 2006, we have issued approximately 33.2 million shares of common stock upon conversion of $30.0 million principal amount of notes and approximately 440,000 shares upon exercise of warrants. If the institutional investors were to convert the remaining unconverted notes in full at the current conversion price we would be obligated to issue an additional 5.6 million shares of common stock, and if such investors were to exercise the warrants in full at the current exercise price we would be obligated to issue 8.3 million shares of common stock, for an aggregate of 13.9 million shares of Avanex common stock. These 13.9 million shares represent approximately 7% of the outstanding shares of common stock (assuming such conversion and exercise) as of September 22, 2006. Because the conversion price of the notes and the exercise price of the warrants may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with the provisions of the notes and the warrants, the number of shares that could actually be issued may be greater than the amount described above. In addition, if such institutional investors or our other 12 Table of Contents stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market during a short period of time, our stock price may decline significantly. In addition, in March 2006 we issued warrants to purchase initially up to an aggregate of 7.2 million shares of common stock to certain institutional investors that are exercisable for a term of 4 years at an exercise price of $2.73 per share, subject to broad-based anti-dilution provisions. If the institutional investors exercise the warrants, we will issue shares of our common stock and such issuances will be dilutive to our stockholders. Because the exercise price of the warrants may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with the provisions of the warrants, the number of shares that could actually be issued may be greater than the amount described above. We substantially increased our outstanding indebtedness with the issuance of certain senior convertible notes and we may not be able to pay our debt and other obligations. In May 2005 we issued notes in the aggregate principal amount of $35.0 million in a private placement to certain institutional investors. As of June, 2006, $4.6 million remained outstanding under the notes, net of prepaid interest that is carried as note discount. The notes accrue interest at a rate of 8% per annum, subject to adjustment, with accrued interest payable quarterly in arrears in cash, and with interest for the first two years pre-paid to such investors on the closing of the transaction. By issuing the notes we increased our indebtedness substantially. In addition, the holders of the notes have imposed certain restrictive covenants, including limits on our future indebtedness and limits on our ability to incur future liens and make certain restricted payments. Upon a change of control (as defined in the notes), the holders of the notes will have certain redemption rights. An event of default would occur under the notes for a number of reasons, including our failure to pay when due any principal, interest or late charges on the notes, certain defaults on our indebtedness, certain events of bankruptcy and our breach or failure to perform certain representations and obligations under the notes. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, our obligations under the notes may become due and payable in accordance with the terms thereof, and the investors will have the right to proceed against the security interest granted in the collateral described below. Our obligations under the notes are secured by collateral, which includes substantially all of our assets, substantially all of the assets of our domestic subsidiaries, and a pledge of 65% of the capital stock of our non-U.S. subsidiaries. In addition, our obligations under the notes are guaranteed by our domestic subsidiaries. As a result, the issuance of the notes may or will: • make it more difficult for us to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes; • make it more difficult for us to be acquired; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations and other capital resources to debt service; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business or industry conditions; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage to any of our competitors that have less debt. If we are unable to satisfy our payment obligations under the notes or otherwise are obliged to repay the notes prior to the due date, we could default on such notes, in which case our available cash could be depleted, perhaps seriously, and our ability to fund operations could be materially harmed. In addition, if we are not able to satisfy our obligations under the notes, the note holders could exercise their rights as secured creditors, which may include taking control of the collateral and selling it to satisfy our obligations, which would have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. 13 Table of Contents II. Market and Competitive Risks. Market conditions in the telecommunications industry may significantly harm our financial position. In the past several years, there has been a significant reduction in spending in the telecommunications industry. Certain large telecommunications companies who were customers or potential customers of ours have suffered severe business setbacks and face uncertain futures. There is currently a perception that an oversupply of communications bandwidth exists. This perceived oversupply, coupled with the current economic environment, may lead to the continuation of lower telecommunications spending, and our customers may continue to cancel, defer or significantly reduce their orders for our products. We sell our products primarily to a few large customers in the telecommunications industry. Two customers (including sales to their contract manufacturers) accounted for an aggregate of 27% and 11% of our net revenue, respectively, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. We expect that the majority of our revenues will continue to depend on sales of our products to a small number of customers. If current customers do not continue to place significant orders, or if they cancel or delay current orders, we may not be able to replace those orders. In addition, any negative developments in the business of existing customers could result in significantly decreased sales to these customers, which could seriously harm our revenues and results of operations. We have experienced, and in the future we may experience, losses as a result of the inability to collect accounts receivable, as well as the loss of ongoing business from customers experiencing financial difficulties. If our customers fail to meet their payment obligations, we could experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of amounts reserved. Because of our reliance on a limited number of customers, any decrease in revenues from, or loss of, one or more of these customers without a corresponding increase in revenues from other customers would harm our operating results. Except for Alcatel, our customers are under no obligation to buy significant quantities of our products, and may cancel or delay purchases with minimal advance notice to us. Our customers typically purchase our products pursuant to individual purchase orders. While we have executed long-term contracts with some of our customers, and may enter into additional long-term contracts with other customers in the future, these contracts do not obligate our customers to buy significant quantities of our products, except for our supply agreement and frame purchase agreement with Alcatel, which will expire in October 2007. Our customers may cancel, defer or decrease purchases without significant penalty and with little or no advance notice. Further, certain of our customers have a tendency to purchase our products near the end of a fiscal quarter. Cancellation or delays of such orders may cause us to fail to achieve that quarter’s financial and operating goals. Decreases in purchases, cancellations of purchase orders, or deferrals of purchases may significantly harm our business, particularly if they are not anticipated. We experience intense competition with respect to our products. We believe that our principal competitors in the optical systems and components industry include Bookham Technology, CyOptics, DiCon Fiberoptics, Eudyna, Finisar, Fujitsu, Furukawa, Hitachi Cable, JDS Uniphase, NEC, Oplink Communications, Opnext, Optium, Intel, and Sumitomo. We may also face competition from companies that expand into our industry in the future. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result, some of these competitors are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale, and support of their products. In addition, our competitors that have larger market capitalization or cash reserves are better positioned than we are to acquire other companies in order to gain new technologies or products that may displace our product lines. Consolidation in the optical systems and components industry could intensify the competitive pressures that we face because these consolidated competitors may have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. 14 Table of Contents Some existing customers and potential customers, as well as suppliers and potential suppliers, are also our competitors. These customers and suppliers may develop or acquire additional competitive products or technologies in the future, which may cause them to reduce or cease their purchases from us or their supply to us, as the case may be. Further, these customers may reduce or discontinue purchasing our products if they perceive us as a serious competitive threat with regard to sales of products to their customers. Additionally, suppliers may reduce or discontinue selling materials to us if they perceive us as a serious competitive threat with regard to sales of products to their customers. As a result of these factors, we expect that competitive pressures will intensify and may result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share. Competition in the optical systems and components industry has contributed to substantial price-driven competition. As a result, sales prices for specific products have decreased over time at varying rates, in some instances significantly. Price pressure is exacerbated by the rapid emergence of new technologies and the evolution of technical standards, which can greatly diminish the value of products relying on older technologies and standards. In addition, the current economic and industry environment in the telecommunications sector has resulted in pressure to reduce prices for our products, and we expect pricing pressure to continue for the foreseeable future, which may continue to adversely affect our operating results. Reduced spending by our customers has caused and may continue to cause increased price competition, resulting in a decline in the prices we charge for our products. If our customers and potential customers continue to constrain their spending, or if the prices we charge continue to decline, our revenues and margins may be adversely affected. We will lose market share and may not be successful if our customers do not qualify our products to be designed into their products and systems or if our customers significantly delay purchasing our products. In the telecommunications industry, service providers and optical systems manufacturers often undertake extensive qualification processes prior to placing orders for large quantities of products such as ours, because these products must function as part of a larger system or network. Once they decide to use a particular supplier’s product or component, these potential customers design the product into their system, which is known as a “design-in” win. Suppliers whose products or components are not designed in are unlikely to make sales to that company until the adoption of a future redesigned system at the earliest, which could occur several years after the last design-in win. If we fail to achieve design-in wins in potential customers’ qualification processes, we may lose the opportunity for significant sales to such customers for a lengthy period of time. The long sales cycles for sales of our products to customers may cause operating results to vary from quarter to quarter, which could continue to cause volatility in our stock price, and may prevent us from achieving profitability. The period of time between our initial contact with certain of our customers and the receipt of an actual purchase order from such customers often spans a time period of six to nine months, and sometimes longer. During this time, customers may perform, or require us to perform, extensive and lengthy evaluation and testing of our products and our manufacturing processes before purchasing our products. While our customers are evaluating our products before they place an order with us, we may incur substantial sales and marketing and research and development expenses, expend significant management efforts, increase manufacturing capacity and order long-lead-time supplies. For example, one of our largest customers required us to perform extensive and lengthy evaluation and testing of a proposed product. After such extensive work, we failed to be designed-in for that product. If we increase capacity and order supplies in anticipation of an order that does not materialize, our gross margins will decline and we will have to carry and write off excess inventory. Even if we receive an order, if we are required to add additional manufacturing capacity in order to service the customer’s requirements, such manufacturing capacity may be underutilized in a subsequent quarter, especially if an order is delayed or cancelled. Either situation could cause our results of operations to be below the expectations of investors or public market analysts, which could, in turn, cause the price of our common stock to decline. 15 Table of Contents If the communications industry does not continue to evolve and grow steadily, our business may not succeed. Future demand for our products is uncertain and will depend to a great degree on the speed of the widespread adoption of optical networks. If the transition occurs too slowly or ceases altogether, the market for our products and the growth of our business will be significantly limited. Our future success depends on the continued growth and success of the telecommunications industry, including the continued growth of the Internet as a widely used medium for commerce and communication and the continuing demand for increased bandwidth over communications networks. If the Internet does not continue to expand as a widespread communication medium and commercial marketplace, the need for significantly increased bandwidth across networks and the market for optical transmission products may not develop. As a result, it would be unlikely that our products would achieve commercial success. The rate at which telecommunications service providers and other optical network users have built new optical networks or installed new systems in their existing optical networks has fluctuated in the past, and these fluctuations may continue in the future. Sales of our components depend on sales of fiber optic telecommunications systems by our systems-level customers, which are shipped in quantity when telecommunications service providers add capacity. Systems manufacturers compete for sales in each capacity deployment. If systems manufacturers that use our products in their systems do not win a contract, their demand for our products will decline, reducing our future revenues. Similarly, a telecommunications service provider’s delay in selecting systems manufacturers for a deployment could delay our shipments and revenues. III. Acquisition and Integration Risks. Difficulties in integrating our acquisitions of the optical components businesses of Alcatel, Corning and Vitesse have and could adversely impact our business. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant costs and commit significant management time integrating and restructuring the operations, technology, development programs, products, information systems, customers and personnel of the businesses acquired from Alcatel, Corning and Vitesse. These costs have been and will likely continue to be substantial and include costs for: • converting, integrating, upgrading and managing information systems, including extremely complex and time- consuming integration of data from Alcatel and Corning’s incompatible enterprise resource planning systems with our system; • integrating and reorganizing operations, including combining teams, facilities and processes in various functional areas; and • professionals and consultants involved in completing the integration process. Acquisitions and investments may adversely affect our business. We regularly review acquisition and investment prospects that would complement our existing product offerings, augment our market coverage, secure supplies of critical materials or enhance our technological capabilities. Acquisitions or investments have resulted in, and in the future could result in, a number of financial consequences, including without limitation: • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities; • reduced cash balances and related interest income; • higher fixed expenses, which require a higher level of revenues to maintain gross margins; • the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; • restructuring actions, which could result in charges that have a material effect on our results of operations and our financial position; 16 Table of Contents • loss of customers, suppliers, distributors, licensors or employees of the acquired company; • amortization expenses related to intangible assets; and • one-time write-offs of large amounts. Acquisitions may involve numerous other risks, such as integration and operational risks. IV. Operations and Research and Development Risks. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our prospects and our operations. We are in the optical systems and components industry. We were first incorporated in October 1997. Because of our limited operating history, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge in our industry and affect our business. The revenue and income potential of the optical systems and components industry, and our business in particular, are unproven. As a result of our limited operating history, we have limited financial data that can be used to evaluate our business. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and challenges we might encounter because we are in a new and rapidly evolving industry. We face various risks related to our manufacturing operations that may adversely affect our business. We may experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations or the manufacturing operations of our third party manufacturers, and, as a result, product shipments to our customers could be delayed beyond the shipment schedules requested by our customers, which would negatively affect our business. Furthermore, even if we are able to timely deliver products to our customers, we may be unable to recognize revenue because of our revenue recognition policies. In the past, we have experienced disruptions in the manufacture of some of our products due to changes in our manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in the shipment of our products and deferral of revenue recognition. Any disruptions in the future could adversely affect our revenues, gross margins and results of operations. Changes in our manufacturing processes or those of our third party manufacturers, or the inadvertent use of defective materials by our third party manufacturers or us, could significantly reduce our manufacturing yields and product reliability. Because a significant portion of our manufacturing costs are relatively fixed, manufacturing yields may have a significant effect on our results of operations. Lower than expected manufacturing yields could delay product shipments and further impair our gross margins. For example, we experienced a shortfall in revenue during the quarter ended December 31, 2005, partly as the result of operational issues we experienced in transferring our manufacturing to lower-cost contract manufacturers. These operational issues included capacity constraints at our contract manufacturers, raw materials shortages, logistics issues and manufacturing yield issues for some of our new products. We may need to develop new manufacturing processes and techniques that will involve higher levels of automation to improve our gross margins and achieve the targeted cost levels of our customers. If we fail to effectively manage this process or if we experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, our shipments of products to our customers could be delayed. We face risks related to our concentration of research and development efforts on a limited number of key industry standards and technologies, and our future success depends on our ability to develop and successfully introduce new and enhanced products that meet the needs of our customers in a timely manner. In the past, we have concentrated our research and development efforts on a limited number of technologies that we believed had the best growth prospects. If we are unable to develop commercially viable products using these technologies, or these technologies do not become generally accepted, our business will likely suffer. 17 Table of Contents The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introduction, changes in customer requirements, and evolving industry standards. Our future performance will depend upon the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address these changes. We may not be able to develop the underlying core technologies necessary to create new or enhanced products, or to license or otherwise acquire these technologies from third parties. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: • changing product specifications and customer requirements; • difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel; • difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; • changing market or competitive product requirements; • unanticipated engineering complexities, and • failure to compete with new product releases by our competitors. Our industry has increased its focus on products that transmit voice, video and data traffic over shorter distances and are offered at lower cost than the products that we offer to our telecommunications customers for transmission of information over longer distances. If we are unable to develop products that meet the requirements of potential customers of these products, our business will suffer. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We cannot assure that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, or on a timely basis. In addition, the introduction of new and enhanced products may cause our customers to defer or cancel orders for existing products. To the extent customers defer or cancel orders for existing products due to the expectation of a new product release or if there is any delay in development or introduction of our new products or enhancements of our products, our operating results would suffer. Further, we cannot assure that our new products will gain market acceptance or that we will be able to respond effectively to competitive products, technological changes or emerging industry standards. Any failure to respond to technological change would significantly harm our business. If we are unable to forecast component and material requirements accurately or if we are unable to commit to deliver sufficient quantities of our products to satisfy customers’ needs, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Our customers typically require us to commit to delivering certain quantities of our products to them (in guaranteed safety stock, guaranteed capacity or otherwise) without committing themselves to purchase such products, or any quantity of such products. Therefore, wide variations between estimates of our customers’ needs and their actual purchases may result in: • a surplus and potential obsolescence of inventory, materials and capacity, if estimates of our customers’ requirements are greater than our customers’ actual need; or • a lack of sufficient products to satisfy our customers’ needs, if estimates of our customers’ requirements are less than our customers’ actual needs. We use a rolling three-month to twelve-month demand forecast based on anticipated and historical product orders to determine our component and material requirements. In addition, due to increased outsourcing, our procurement lead times have lengthened, which can result in higher inventory levels and greater risk of excess and obsolete inventory. It is very important that we accurately predict both the demand for our products and the lead times required to obtain the necessary components and materials. It is very difficult to develop accurate 18 Table of Contents forecasts of product demand, especially given the current uncertain conditions in the telecommunications industry. Order cancellations and lower order volumes by our customers have in the past created excess inventories. For example, the inventory write-offs taken in the years ended, June 30, 2006, June 30, 2005, and June 30, 2004, were primarily the result of our inability to anticipate decreases in demand for certain of our products and variations in product mix ordered by our customers. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005, respectively, we recorded write-downs of $12.8 million and $8.2 million for excess and obsolete inventory. If we fail to accurately predict both the demand for our products and the lead times required to obtain the necessary components and materials in the future, we could incur additional excess and obsolete inventory write-offs. If we underestimate our component and material requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt our manufacturing and delay delivery of our products to our customers. Any of these occurrences would negatively affect our results of operations. Network carriers and telecommunication system integrators historically have required that suppliers commit to provide specified quantities of products over a given period of time. If we are unable to commit to deliver sufficient quantities of our products to satisfy a customer’s anticipated needs, we may lose the opportunity to make significant sales to that customer over a lengthy period of time. In addition, we may be unable to pursue large orders if we do not have sufficient manufacturing capacity to enable us to provide customers with specified quantities of products. If we cannot deliver sufficient quantities of our products, we may lose business, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If our customers do not qualify our manufacturing processes they may not purchase our products, and our operating results could suffer. Certain of our customers will not purchase our products prior to qualification of our manufacturing processes and approval of our quality assurance system. The qualification process determines whether the manufacturing line meets the quality, performance and reliability standards of our customers. These customers may also require that we, and any manufacturer that we may use, be registered under international quality standards, such as ISO 9001. In August 2000, we successfully passed the ISO 9001 registration audit and received formal registration of our quality assurance system at our Fremont California facility, and we have passed subsequent reviews as well. In addition, in fiscal year 2006 our Bangkok, Thailand site obtained TL-9000 certification. Delays in obtaining customer qualification of our manufacturing processes or approval of our quality assurance system may cause a product to be removed from a long-term supply program and result in significant lost revenue opportunity over the term of that program. We depend upon a limited number of contract manufacturers to manufacture a majority of our products, and our dependence on these manufacturers may result in product delivery delays, may harm our operations or have an adverse effect upon our business. We rely on a limited number of outsourced manufacturers to manufacture a substantial majority of our components, subassemblies and finished products. In particular, one contract manufacturer, Fabrinet, currently manufactures products the sale of which constitutes a significant majority of our net revenue. We intend to develop further our relationships with these manufacturers so that they will eventually manufacture many of our high volume key components and subassemblies, and possibly a substantial portion of our finished products, in the future. The qualification of these independent manufacturers under quality assurance standards is an expensive and time-consuming process. Our independent manufacturers have a limited history of manufacturing optical subcomponents, and have no history of manufacturing our products on a turnkey basis. Any interruption in the operations of these manufacturers, or any deficiency in the quality or quantity of the subcomponents or products built for us by these manufacturers, could impede our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our customers. As a result, we may lose existing or potential customers. In fact, we experienced a shortfall in revenue during the quarter ended December 31, 2005, partly as the result of operational issues we experienced in transferring our manufacturing to lower-cost contract manufacturers. These operational issues included capacity 19 Table of Contents constraints at our contract manufacturers, raw materials shortages, logistics issues and manufacturing yield issues for some of our new products. We have limited experience in working with outsourced manufacturers, and do not have contracts in place with many of these manufacturers. As a result, we may not be able to effectively manage our relationships with these manufacturers. If we cannot effectively manage our manufacturing relationships, or if these manufacturers fail to deliver components in a timely manner, we could experience significant delays in product deliveries, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Increased reliance on outsourced manufacturing, and the ultimate disposition of our manufacturing capacity in the future, may result in impairment expense relating to our long-lived assets in future periods, which would have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, for a period of time as we transfer production of certain products to these third party manufacturers and as our customers qualify such third party manufacturers, we incur fixed and variable costs at both locations. Our products may have defects that are not detected until full deployment of a customer’s network, which could result in a loss of customers and revenue and damage to our reputation. Our products are designed to be deployed in large and complex optical networks and must be compatible with existing and future components of such networks. Our products can only be fully tested for reliability when deployed in networks for long periods of time. Our products may not operate as expected, and our customers may discover errors, defects, or incompatibilities in our products only after they have been fully deployed and are operating under peak stress conditions. If we are unable to fix errors or other problems, we could experience: • loss of customers or customer orders; • loss of or delay in revenues; • loss of market share; • loss or damage to our brand and reputation; • inability to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; • diversion of development resources; • increased service and warranty costs; • legal actions by our customers; and • increased insurance costs. We may be required to indemnify our customers against certain liabilities arising from defects in our products, which liabilities may also include the following costs and expenses: • costs and expenses incurred by our customers or their customers to fix the problems; or • costs and expenses incurred by our customers or their customers to replace our products, or their products which incorporate our products, with other product solutions. While we carry insurance policies covering this type of liability, these policies may not provide sufficient protection should a claim be asserted. To date, product defects have not had a material negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations; however, we cannot be certain that they will not have a material negative effect on us in the future. We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively, and if we are unable to hire, retain, or motivate qualified personnel, our ability to sell our products could be harmed. Our future success depends, in part, on certain key employees and on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. We recently hired a new Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and a new Senior 20 Table of Contents Vice President of Manufacturing and Operations. In addition, we recently made other significant changes in our executive management teams, and there can be no assurance that these changes will be successful. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineering, sales or marketing personnel, may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. None of our officers or key employees has an employment agreement for a specific term, and these employees may terminate their employment at any time. For example, several of our executive officers left Avanex in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006, including two chief financial officers, our vice president of sales and our chief operating officer. We do not have key person life insurance policies covering any of our employees. Our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. Competition for highly skilled personnel is frequently intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area. We may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. In addition, we implemented restructuring programs designed to attempt to improve our financial performance. Among other things, we moved substantially all of our manufacturing operations to lower cost locations. As a result, our headcount in the United States and Europe has been substantially reduced and may be reduced further in the future. To date, such actions have not resulted in substantial work stoppages. Decreases in labor productivity, however, whether formalized by a work stoppage, or strike, or decreased productivity due to morale issues could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. We face various risks that could prevent us from successfully manufacturing, marketing and distributing our products internationally. As a result of the opening of our operations center in Thailand and our research and development office in Shanghai, we expanded our international operations, including expansion of overseas product manufacturing, and we may continue to expand internationally in the future. Further, we have increased international sales and intend to further increase our international sales and the number of our international customers. We have also initiated significant restructuring programs overseas, and may initiate additional restructuring programs overseas in the future. Our international operations have required and will continue to require significant management attention and financial resources. For instance, we have incurred, and may continue to incur, startup costs to open our operations center in Thailand and our research and development office in Shanghai, and may incur costs in transferring operations to Thailand. We may not be able to maintain international demand for our products. We currently have limited experience in manufacturing, marketing and distributing our products internationally, particularly from our new operations center in Thailand. In addition, international operations are subject to inherent risks, including, without limitation, the following: • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • difficulties inherent in managing operations and employees in remote foreign operations; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations with personnel who have expertise in optics; • import or export licensing and product certification requirements; • tariffs, duties, price controls or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade barriers imposed by foreign countries; • potential adverse tax consequences; • seasonal reductions in business activity in some parts of the world; • burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, particularly with respect to taxes, intellectual property, license requirements, employment matters and environmental requirements; • the impact of recessions in economies outside of the United States; 21 Table of Contents • unexpected changes in regulatory or certification requirements for optical systems or networks; and • political and economic instability, terrorism and war. Historically our international revenues and expenses have been denominated predominantly in U.S. dollars; however, as a result of the acquisitions of the optical components businesses of Alcatel and Corning, a portion of our international revenues and expenses are now denominated in foreign currencies. Therefore, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could have a negative impact on the profitability of our global operations, which would seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. V. Intellectual Property and Litigation Risks. Current and future litigation against us could be costly and time consuming to defend. We are regularly subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. Litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be unable to protect our proprietary technology, which could significantly impair our ability to compete. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also rely on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and controlled access to and distribution of our technology, documentation and other confidential information. We have numerous patents issued or applied for in the United States and abroad, of which some may be jointly filed or owned with other parties. Further, we license certain intellectual property from third parties, including Alcatel and Corning, that is critical to our business, and we also license intellectual property to other parties. We cannot assure you that any patent applications or issued patents will protect our proprietary technology, or that any patent applications or patents issued will not be challenged by third parties. Further, we cannot assure you that parties from whom we license intellectual property will not violate their agreements with us; that their patent applications, patents and other intellectual property will protect our technology, products and business; or that their patent applications, patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged by third parties. Our intellectual property also consists of trade secrets, requiring more monitoring and control mechanisms to protect. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we take will prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technology. Further, other parties may independently develop similar or competing technology or design around any patents that may be issued or licensed to us. We use various methods to attempt to protect our intellectual property rights. However, we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property. In particular, the laws in foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as the laws in the United States. We face risks with regard to our third-party intellectual property licenses. From time to time we may be required to license technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements. We cannot assure you that third-party licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The inability to obtain a necessary third-party license required to develop new products and product enhancements could require us to substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards, or of greater cost, either of which could prevent us from operating our business. For example, Alcatel currently holds patent cross licenses with various third parties that may be necessary for us to operate our business. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain these patent licenses from these third parties, or that 22 Table of Contents we will be able to obtain these licenses on favorable terms. If we are not able to obtain licenses from these third parties, then we may be subject to litigation to defend against infringement claims from these third parties. Further, Alcatel has cross licenses with various third parties, which when combined with their own intellectual property, may permit these thirds parties to compete with us. We may become subject to litigation or claims from or against third parties regarding intellectual property rights, which could divert resources, cause us to incur significant costs, and restrict our ability to utilize certain technology. We may become a party to litigation in the future to protect our intellectual property or we may be subject to litigation to defend against infringement claims of others. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling, incorporating or using our products that use the challenged intellectual property; • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; • redesign the products that use the technology; or • indemnify certain customers against intellectual property claims asserted against them. If we are forced to take any of these actions, our business may be seriously harmed. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights in order to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of competitors. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of our technical and management personnel. VI. Other Risks. Our business and future operating results may be adversely affected by events that are outside of our control. Our business and operating results are vulnerable to interruption by events outside of our control, such as earthquakes, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures and uncertainties arising out of terrorist attacks throughout the world, including the continuation or potential worsening of the current global economic environment, the economic consequences of additional military action and associated political instability, and the effect of heightened security concerns on domestic and international travel and commerce. We cannot be certain that the insurance we maintain against fires, floods and general business interruptions will be adequate to cover our losses for such events in any particular case. In addition, we handle hazardous materials as part of our manufacturing activities and are subject to a variety of governmental laws and regulations related to the use, storage, recycling, labeling, reporting, treatment, transportation, handling, discharge and disposal of such hazardous materials. Although we believe that our operations conform to presently applicable environmental laws and regulations, we may incur costs in order to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations, including costs associated with permitting, investigation and remediation of hazardous materials and installation of capital equipment relating to pollution abatement, production modification and/or hazardous materials management. In addition, we currently sell products that incorporate firmware and electronic components. The additional level of complexity created by combining firmware and electronic components with our optical components requires that we comply with additional regulations, both domestically and abroad, related to power consumption, electrical emissions and 23 Table of Contents homologation. Any failure to successfully obtain the necessary permits or comply with the necessary laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law, as well as our 8% senior secured convertible notes, could delay or prevent a change of control of us. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions allow us to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of our common stock and impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for our stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. In addition, Alcatel owned shares of Avanex common stock representing 14% of the outstanding shares of Avanex common stock as of June 30, 2006. Pursuant to the stockholders’ agreement entered into by Avanex and Alcatel, Alcatel is generally required to vote on all matters as recommended by the board of directors of Avanex, except for proposals relating to certain acquisition transactions between Avanex and certain competitors of Alcatel. The concentration of ownership of our shares of common stock, combined with the voting requirements contained in the stockholders’ agreement, could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, unless the transaction is approved by our board of directors. Finally, certain provisions of our 8% senior secured convertible notes may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition because, upon a change of control (as defined in the notes), the holders of the notes will have certain redemption rights. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 