ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could have a materially adverse impact on our operations. The risks described below highlight some of the factors that have affected, and in the future could affect, our operations. You should carefully consider these risks. These risks are not the only ones we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or that we currently deem immaterial also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the events or circumstances described in the followings risks occurs, our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or any combination of the foregoing, could be materially and adversely affected. Our risks are described in detail below; however, the more significant risks we face can be summarized into several broad categories, including: The future evolution of the technology industry in which we operate is difficult to predict, highly competitive and requires continual innovation, strategic planning, capital investment, demand planning and space utilization management to remain viable. We face on-going challenges to develop new services and products to maintain current customers and obtain new ones, whether in a cost-effective manner or at all. In addition, technological advantages typically devalue rapidly creating constant pressure on pricing and cost structures and hinder our ability to maintain or increase margins. We are dependent on numerous suppliers, vendors and other third-party providers across a wide spectrum of products and services to operate our business. These include real-estate, network capacity and access points, network equipment and supplies, power and other vendors. In many cases the suppliers of these products and services are not only vendors, they are also competitors. While we maintain contractual agreements with these suppliers, we have limited ability to guarantee they will meet their obligations, or that we will be able to continue to obtain the products and services necessary to operate our business in sufficient supply, or at an acceptable cost. - 6 - - Our business model involves designing, deploying, and maintaining a complex set of network infrastructures at considerable capital expense. We invest significant resources to help maintain the integrity of our infrastructure and support our customers; however, we face constant challenges related to our network infrastructure, including capital forecasting, demand planning, space utilization management, physical failures, obsolesce, maintaining redundancies, security breaches, power demand, and other risks. Our financial results have fluctuated over time and we have a history of losses, including in each of the past three years. We have also incurred significant charges related to impairments and restructuring efforts, which, along with other factors, may contribute to volatility in our stock price. Risks Related to our Industry We cannot predict with certainty the future evolution of the market for technology and products, and may be unable to respond effectively and on a timely basis to rapid technological change. Our industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, industry standards and customer needs, as well as by frequent new product and service introductions. New technologies and industry standards have the potential to replace or provide lower cost alternatives to our services. The adoption of such new technologies or industry standards could render our existing services or products obsolete and unmarketable to a sufficiently large number of customers. Our failure to anticipate the prevailing standard, to adapt our technology to any changes in the prevailing standard or the failure of a common standard to emerge could materially and adversely affect our business. Our pursuit of necessary technological advances may require substantial time and expense, and we may be unable to successfully adapt our network and services to alternative access devices and technologies. If the Internet becomes subject to a form of central management, or if NSPs establish an economic settlement arrangement regarding the exchange of traffic between Internet networks, the demand for our IP services could be materially and adversely affected. Likewise, technological advances in computer processing, storage, capacity, component size or advances in power management could change which could result in a decreased demand for our data center services. If we are unable to develop new and enhanced services and products that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to improve the performance and features of our existing services and products or adapt our business model to keep pace with industry trends, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our industry is constantly evolving. The process of expending research and development to create new services and products, and the technologies that support them, is expensive, time and labor intensive and uncertain. We may fail to understand the market demand for new services and products or not be able to overcome technical problems with new services. The demand for top research and development talent is high, and there is significant competition for these scarce resources. Our future success may depend on our ability to respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers by expending research and development in a cost-effective manner to acquire talent, develop and introduce new services, products and product upgrades on a timely basis. New product development and introduction involves a significant commitment of time and resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges, including: ● sourcing, identifying, obtaining, and maintaining qualified R&D staff with the appropriate skill and expertise; ● managing the length of the development cycle for new products and product enhancements, which historically has been longer than expected; ● adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to technological developments by our competitors and customers services and products ● entering into new or unproven markets where we have limited experience; ● managing new product and service strategies and integrating those with our existing services and products; ● incorporating acquired products and technologies; ● trade compliance issues affecting our ability to ship new products to international markets; ● developing or expanding efficient sales channels; and ● obtaining required technology licenses and technical access from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to enable the development and deployment of interoperable products. In addition, if we cannot adapt our business models to keep pace with industry trends, our revenue could be negatively impacted. If we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new services, products and product upgrades are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, we may lose market share, resulting in a decrease in our revenues and earnings. - 7 - - Our capital investment strategy for data center expansion may contain erroneous assumptions causing our return on invested capital to be materially lower than expected. Our strategic decision to invest capital in expanding our data center space in 2010 and beyond is based on significant assumptions relative to expected growth of this market, our competitor’s plans, current and expected occupancy rates and similar factors. We have no way of ensuring the data or models used to deploy capital into existing markets, or to create new markets, will be accurate. Errors or imprecision in these estimates, especially those related to customer demand, could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results and have a material negative impact on revenue in future periods. Our management of existing data center space or estimation of future data center space needs may be inaccurate, leading to lost revenue through missed sales opportunities or additional expenses through unnecessary carrying costs for our data center space. Adding data center space involves significant capital outlays well ahead of planned usage. We strive to maintain accurate records related to data center space by classification; however, we may not be able to ensure accuracy of existing data center space nor be able to accurately project future space needs due to significant estimates and assumptions required for these projections. Errors or imprecision in these estimates could cause actual results to differ materially for expected results and correspondingly have a material negative impact on revenue in future periods. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. The IP services and data center services markets are highly competitive, as evidenced by recent declines in pricing for Internet connectivity services and the significant capital invested in data center expansions by our competitors. We expect competition to continue to intensify in the future, and we may not have the financial resources, technical expertise, sales and marketing abilities, capital or support capabilities to compete successfully. Our competitors currently include: NSPs that offer Internet access; global, national and regional NSPs and ISPs; providers of specific applications or service offerings such as content delivery, security or storage; software-based and other Internet infrastructure providers and manufacturers; and colocation and data center providers. In addition, NSPs and ISPs may make technological advancements, such as the introduction of improved routing protocols to enhance the quality of their services, which could negatively impact the demand for our services and products. In addition, we expect that we will face additional competition as we expand our product offerings, including competition from technology and telecommunications companies. A number of telecommunications companies, NSPs and ISPs have offered or expanded their network services. Further, the ability of some of these potential competitors to bundle other services and products with their network services could place us at a competitive disadvantage. Various companies also are exploring the possibility of providing, or are currently providing, high-speed, intelligent data services that use connections to more than one network or use alternative delivery methods, including the cable television infrastructure, direct broadcast satellites and wireless local loop. Many of our existing and future competitors may have greater market presence, engineering and marketing capabilities and financial, technological and personnel resources than we have. As a result, our competitors may have significant advantages over us and may be able to respond more quickly to emerging technologies and ensuing customer demands. Increased competition and technological advancements by our competitors could materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to retain existing customers or add new customers may cause declines in revenue. In addition to adding new customers, we must sell additional services to existing customers as well as encourage them to increase their usage levels to increase our revenue. If our existing and prospective customers do not perceive our services to be of sufficiently high value and quality, we may not be able to retain our current customers or attract new customers. Our customers have no obligation to renew their contracts for our services after the expiration of their initial commitment, and these service agreements may not be renewed at the same or higher price or level of service, if at all. Moreover, under some circumstances, some of our customers have the right to cancel their service agreements prior to the expiration of the terms of their agreements. Due to the significant upfront costs of managing data centers, if our customers fail to renew or cancel their service agreements, we may not be able to recover the initial costs associated with the expansion of our facilities. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including: ● their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our services; ● our ability to provide features and functionality demanded by our customers; ● the prices of our services and products as compared with those of our competitors; ● mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base; and ● reduction in our customers’ spending levels. - 8 - - If our customers do not renew their service agreements with us or if they renew on less favorable terms, our revenue may decline and our business may suffer. Similarly, our customer agreements often provide for minimum commitments that may be significantly below our customers’ historical usage levels. Consequently, even if we have agreements with our customers to use our services, these customers could significantly curtail their usage without incurring any incremental fees under our agreements. In this event, our revenue would be lower than expected and our operating results could suffer. We have a long sales cycle for our services and products and the implementation efforts required by customers to activate our services and products can be substantial. Our services and products are complex and require substantial sales efforts and technical consultation to implement. A customer’s decision to use datacenter space or acquire IP services typically involves a significant commitment of resources. Some customers may be reluctant to enter into an agreement with us due to their inability to accurately forecast future demand, delay in decision-making or inability to obtain necessary internal approvals to commit resources. We may expend time and resources pursuing a particular sale or customer that does not result in revenue. Delays due to the length of our sales cycle may harm our ability to meet our forecasts and materially and adversely affect our revenues and operating results. We may lose customers if they elect to develop IP or content delivery services or products internally. Our customers and potential customers may decide to develop their own IP or content delivery services or products rather than outsource to services providers like us. These in-house services or products could be perceived to be superior to our services and products. In addition, our customers could decide to host their Internet applications internally, bypassing outside vendors like us. This is particularly true as our customers increase their operations and expend greater resources on delivering their content using third-party services. If we fail to offer IP, data center or CDN services that compete favorably with in-sourced services, if we fail to differentiate our services and products or if competitors introduce new products or services that compete with or surpass the quality or the price/performance of our services, we may lose customers or fail to attract customers that may consider pursuing this in-sourced approach, and our business and financial results would suffer as a result. In addition, our customers’ business models may change in ways that we do not anticipate and these changes could reduce or eliminate our customers’ needs for our services or products. If this occurred, we could lose customers or potential customers, and our business and financial results would suffer. As a result of these or similar potential developments, in the future it is possible that competitive dynamics in our market may require us to reduce our prices, which could harm our revenue, gross margin and operating results. Pricing pressure may continue to decrease our revenue and threaten the attractiveness of our premium-priced IP services. Pricing for Internet connectivity services has declined significantly in recent years and may continue to decline. We currently charge, and expect to continue to charge, premium prices for our high-performance IP services compared to the prices charged by our competitors for their connectivity services. By bundling their services and reducing the overall cost of their service offerings, certain of our competitors may be able to provide customers with reduced communications costs in connection with their Internet connectivity services or private network services, thereby significantly increasing the pressure on us to decrease our prices. Increased price competition, significant price deflation and other related competitive pressures has eroded, and could continue to erode, our revenue and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations if we are unable to control or reduce our costs. Because we rely on NSPs to deliver our services and have agreed with some of these providers to purchase minimum amounts of service at predetermined prices, our profitability could be adversely affected by competitive price reductions to our customers even if accompanied with an increased number of customers. In light of economic factors and technological advances, companies that require Internet connectivity have evaluated and will continue to evaluate the cost of such services, particularly high performance connectivity services such as those we currently offer. Consequently, existing and potential customers may be less willing to pay premium prices for high performance Internet connectivity services and may choose to purchase lower-quality services at lower prices, which could materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, prices for content delivery services have similarly fallen in recent years from technological improvements and intensified competition and may continue to fall in the future. If the price that we are able to charge customers to deliver their content falls to a greater extent than we anticipate, if we overestimate future demand for our services or if our costs to deliver our services do not fall commensurate with any future price declines, we may not be able to achieve acceptable rates of return on our infrastructure investments, and our gross profit and results of operations may suffer dramatically. We may acquire other businesses, and these acquisitions involve integration and other risks that could harm our business. We may pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses, products, services and technologies to expand our geographic footprint, enhance our existing services, expand our service offerings or enlarge our customer base. If we complete future acquisitions, we may be required to incur or assume additional debt, make capital expenditures or issue additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock as consideration, which would dilute our existing stockholders’ ownership interest and may adversely affect our results of operations. - 9 - - If we fail to identify and acquire needed companies or assets, if we acquire the wrong companies or assets or if we fail to address the risks associated with integrating an acquired company, we would not be able to effectively manage our growth through acquisitions which could adversely affect our results. If governments modify or increase regulation of the Internet, or goods or services necessary to operate the Internet or our data centers, our services could become more costly. International bodies and federal, state and local governments have adopted a number of laws and regulations that affect the Internet and are likely to continue to seek to implement additional laws and regulations. In addition, federal and state agencies are actively considering regulation of various aspects of the Internet, including taxation of transactions, imposition of access fees for VoIP, enhanced data privacy and retention legislation and various energy regulations. In addition, laws relating to the liability of private network operators and information carried on or disseminated through their networks are unsettled, both in the United States and abroad. The adoption of any future laws or regulations might decrease the growth of the Internet, decrease demand for our services, impose taxes or other costly technical requirements, regulate the Internet or otherwise increase the cost of doing business on the Internet. Any of these actions could significantly harm our customers or us. Moreover, the nature of any new laws and regulations and the interpretation of applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing intellectual property ownership and infringement, copyright, trademark, trade secret, obscenity, libel, employment, personal privacy and other issues are uncertain and developing. Additionally, potential laws and regulations not specifically directed at the Internet, but targeted at goods or services necessary to operate the Internet, could have a negative impact on us. Of specific concern are the legal, political and scientific developments regarding climate change. These factors may impact the delivery of our services or products by driving up the cost of power, which is a significant cost of operating our data centers and other service points. We cannot predict the impact, if any, that future regulation or regulatory changes may have on our business. Risks Related to our Business We depend on third-party suppliers for key elements of our network infrastructure. If we are unable to obtain these items on a cost-effective basis, or at all, or if such services are interrupted, limited or terminated, our growth prospects and business operations may be adversely affected. In delivering our services, we rely on a number of Internet networks, many of which are built and operated by third parties. To provide high performance connectivity services to our customers through our network access points, we purchase connections from several NSPs. We can offer no assurances that these NSPs will continue to provide service to us on a cost-effective basis or on otherwise competitive terms, if at all, or that these providers will provide us with additional capacity to adequately meet customer demand or to expand our business. Consolidation among NSPs limits the number of vendors from which we obtain service, possibly resulting in higher network costs to us. We may be unable to establish and maintain relationships with other NSPs that may emerge or that are significant in geographic areas, such as Asia, India and Europe, in which we may locate our future network access points. Any of these situations could limit our growth prospects and materially and adversely affect our business. We also depend on other companies to supply various key elements of our infrastructure, including the network access loops between our network access points and our NSP, local loops between our network access points and our customers’ networks and certain end-user access networks. Pricing for such network access loops and local loops has risen significantly over time and operators of these networks may take measures, such as the deployment of a variety of filters, that could degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of our or our customers’ access to certain of these end-user access networks by restricting or prohibiting the use of their networks to support or facilitate our services, or by charging increased fees to us, our customers or end-users in connection with our services. Some of our competitors have their own network access loops and local loops and are, therefore, not subject to the same or similar availability and pricing issues. In addition, we currently purchase routers and switches from a limited number of vendors. We do not carry significant inventories of the products we purchase, and we have no guaranteed supply arrangements with our vendors. A loss of a significant vendor could delay any build-out of our infrastructure and increase our costs. If our limited source of suppliers fails to provide products or services that comply with evolving Internet standards or that interoperate with other products or services we use in our network infrastructure, we may be unable to meet all or a portion of our customer service commitments, which could materially and adversely affect our results. We depend on third-party suppliers for key elements of our data center infrastructure. If we are unable to obtain datacenter facilities on a cost-effective basis, or at all, our growth prospects and business operations may be adversely affected. In establishing data center facilities, we rely on a number of vendors to provide physical space, convert or build space to data center specifications, provide power, internal cabling and wiring, climate control and system redundancy. Physical space is typically obtained through long-term lease arrangements, while multiple other vendors are utilized to perform leasehold improvements necessary to make the physical space available for occupancy. The demand for premium data center space in several key markets has outpaced supply over recent years and the imbalance is projected to continue over the near term. This has increased, and will continue to increase, our costs to add data center space. If we are not able to contain data center expansion costs, or are not able to pass these costs on to our customers, our results will be adversely affected. - 10 - - Our business operations depend on contracts with vendors and suppliers who may not meet their contractual obligations. We maintain contracts with third-party vendors that govern our IP capacity, P-NAPs, data center space and various other services and products. Tracking, monitoring and managing these contract and vendor relationships is critical to our business operations; however, we have limited control over the performance of these contracts by the vendors related to the terms, conditions or contractual obligations contained therein. Even if these contracts contain terms favorable to us in the event of a breach, there is no guarantee the damages due us under the contract would cover the losses suffered or would even be paid. Also, each contract contains specific terms and conditions that may change over time based on contract expiration, assignment, assumption or renegotiation. There is no guarantee that these changes would be favorable to us, and to the event they were not, our operations could be materially impacted. In addition, these contracts may contain clauses, provisions, triggers, rights, options or obligations that result in favorable or non-favorable impacts on us depending on actions taken, or not taken. While we intend to pursue all contractual provisions favorable to our business, the appropriate actions under a particular contract may require estimates, judgments and assumptions to be made concerning future events for which we have limited basis for estimation. We cannot guarantee that we will take the appropriate action under a particular contract to maximize the benefit to us, which could have a material, adverse impact on operations. Our inability to renew our data center leases on favorable terms could negatively impact our financial results. Our leased data centers have lease terms that expire between 2010 and 2023. The majority of these leases provide us with the opportunity to renew the lease at our option for periods generally ranging from five to 10 years. Many of these options however, if renewed, provide that rent for the renewal period will be equal to the fair market rental rate at the time of renewal. If the fair market rental rates are significantly higher than our current rental rates, we may be unable to offset these costs by charging more for our services, which could have a negative impact on our financial results. Conversely, if rental rates drop significantly in the near term, we would not be able to take advantage of the drop in rates until the expiration of the lease as we would be bound by the terms of the existing lease agreement. If we are unable to deploy new service points (network access points and/or data center space) or do not adequately control expenses associated with the deployment of new service points, our results of operations could be adversely affected. As part of our strategy, we may continue to expand our network access points and/or data center space, particularly into new geographic markets. We face various risks associated with identifying, obtaining and integrating new service points, negotiating leases for data centers on competitive terms, cost estimation errors or overruns, delays in connecting with local exchanges, equipment and material delays or shortages, the inability to obtain necessary permits on a timely basis, if at all, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and all of which could delay the deployment of new service points. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to open and operate new service points on a timely or profitable basis. Deployment of new service points will increase operating expenses, including expenses associated with hiring, training, retaining and managing new employees, provisioning capacity from NSPs, purchasing new equipment, implementing new systems, leasing additional real estate and incurring additional depreciation expense. In addition, delays in opening and operating new service points could have a material, negative impact on our financial results. Any failure of the physical infrastructure in our data service centers could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could harm our business reputation, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business depends on providing customers with highly-reliable service. We must protect our infrastructure and our customers’ data and their equipment located in our data centers. The services we provide in each of our data centers are subject to failure resulting from numerous factors, including: ● human error; ● physical or electronic security breaches; ● fire, earthquake, hurricane, flood, tornado and other natural disasters; ● improper building maintenance by the landlords of the buildings in which our data centers are located; ● water damage, extreme temperatures, fiber cuts; ● power loss or equipment failure; ● sabotage and vandalism; and ● failures experienced by underlying service providers upon which our business relies. - 11 - - Problems at one or more of the data centers operated by us or any of our colocation providers, whether or not within our control, could result in service interruptions or significant equipment damage. Most of our customers have service level agreements that require us to meet minimum performance obligations. As a result, service interruptions or equipment damage in our data centers could impact our ability to maintain performance obligations in our service level agreements to these customers and we could face claims related to such failures. We have in the past given credits to our customers as a result of service interruptions due to equipment failures. Because our data centers are critical to many of our customers’ businesses, service interruptions or significant equipment damage in our data centers also could result in lost profits or other indirect or consequential damages to our customers. We cannot guarantee that a court would enforce any contractual limitations on our liability in the event that a customer brings a lawsuit against us as the result of a problem at one of our data centers. Any loss of services, equipment damage or inability to meet performance obligations in our service level agreements could reduce the confidence of our customers and could result in lost customers or an inability to attract new customers, which would adversely affect both our ability to generate revenues and our operating results. Furthermore, we are dependent upon NSPs and telecommunications carriers in the United States, Europe and Asia-Pacific region, some of whom have experienced significant system failures and electrical outages in the past. Users of our services may experience difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems and services. If, for any reason, these providers fail to provide the required services, our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. A failure in the redundancies in our network operations centers, network access points or computer systems could cause a significant disruption in our IP services which could impact our ability to service our customers. While we maintain multiple layers of redundancy in or operating facilities, if we experience a problem at our network operations centers, including the failure of redundant systems, we may be unable to provide IP services to our customers, provide customer service and support or monitor our network infrastructure or network access points, any of which would seriously harm our business and operating results. Also, because we provide continuous Internet availability under our SLAs, we may be required to issue a significant amount of customer credits as a result of such interruptions in service. These credits could negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. In addition, interruptions in service to our customers could potentially harm our customer relations, require us to issue credits, expose us to potential lawsuits or necessitate additional capital expenditures. A significant number of our network access points are located in facilities owned and operated by third parties. In many of those arrangements, we do not have property rights similar to those customarily possessed by a lessee or subtenant but instead have lesser rights of occupancy. In certain situations, the financial condition of those parties providing occupancy to us could have an adverse impact on the continued occupancy arrangement or the level of service delivered to us under such arrangements. Our network and software are subject to potential security breaches and similar threats that could result in liability and harm our reputation. A number of widespread and disabling attacks on public and private networks have occurred. The number and severity of these attacks may increase in the future as network assailants take advantage of outdated software, security breaches or incompatibility between or among networks. Computer viruses, intrusions and similar disruptive problems could cause us to be liable for damages under agreements with our customers, and our reputation could suffer, thereby deterring potential customers from working with us. Security problems or other attacks caused by third parties could lead to interruptions and delays or to the cessation of service to our customers. Furthermore, inappropriate use of the network by third parties could also jeopardize the security of confidential information stored in our computer systems and in those of our customers and could expose us to liability under unsolicited commercial e-mail, or “spam,” regulations. In the past, third parties have occasionally circumvented some of these industry-standard measures. We can offer no assurance that the measures we implement will not be circumvented. Our efforts to eliminate computer viruses and alleviate other security problems, or any circumvention of those efforts, may result in increased costs, interruptions, delays or cessation of service to our customers, and negatively impact hosted customers’ on-line business transactions. Affected customers might file claims against us under such circumstances, and our insurance may not be adequate to cover these claims. The increased use of high-power density equipment may limit our ability to fully utilize our data centers. Customers continue to increase their use of high-power density equipment, which has significantly increased the demand for power. The current demand for electrical power may exceed our designed capacity in these facilities. As electrical power, rather than space, is typically the primary factor limiting capacity in our data centers, our ability to fully utilize our data centers may be limited in these facilities. If we are unable to adequately utilize our data centers, our ability to grow our business cost-effectively could be materially and adversely affected. - 12 - - Our business could be harmed by prolonged electrical power outages or shortages, increased costs of energy or general availability of electrical resources. Our data centers and P-NAPs are susceptible to regional costs and supply of power, electrical power shortages, planned or unplanned power outages and availability of adequate power resources. Power outages could harm our customers and our business. While we attempt to limit exposure to system downtime by using backup generators, uninterruptible power systems and other redundancies, we may not be able to limit our exposure entirely. Even with these protections in place we have experienced power outages in the past and may in the future. In addition, our energy costs have increased and may continue to increase for a variety of reasons including increased pressure on legislators to pass green legislation. As energy costs increase, we may not be able to pass on to our customers the increased cost of energy, which could harm our business and operating results. In each of our markets, we rely on utility companies to provide a sufficient amount of power for current and future customers. Because we rely on third parties to provide power, we cannot ensure that these third parties will deliver such power in adequate quantities or on a consistent basis. At the same time, power and cooling requirements are growing on a per-unit basis. As a result, some customers are consuming an increasing amount of power per cabinet. We do not have long-term power agreements in all our markets for long-term guarantees of provisioned amounts and may face power limitations in our centers. This limitation could have a negative impact on the effective available capacity of a given data center and limit our ability to grow our business, which could have a negative impact on our relationships with our customers as well as our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to our Capital Stock and Other Business Risks We have a history of losses and may not sustain profitability. We have a history of quarterly and annual period net losses, including for each of three years in the period ended December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was $1,036.5 million. Considering the competitive and evolving nature of the industry in which we operate, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, and our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, including our ability to raise additional funds. We may incur additional goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges, restructuring charges or both. As more fully described in notes 8 and 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, we have recently recorded significant impairment and restructuring charges and made changes in estimates that resulted in acceleration of amortization expense related to certain intangible assets. The assumptions, inputs and judgments used in performing the valuation analysis and assessments are inherently subjective and reflect estimates based on known facts and circumstances at the time the valuation is performed. The use of different assumptions, inputs and judgments or changes in circumstances could materially affect the results of the valuation and assessments. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results could differ from our estimates. When circumstances warrant, we may elect to exit certain business activities or change the manner in which we conduct ongoing operations. When we make such a change, we will estimate the costs to exit a business or restructure ongoing operations. The components of the estimates may include estimates and assumptions regarding the timing and costs of future events and activities that represent our best expectations based on known facts and circumstances at the time of estimation. Should circumstances warrant, we will adjust our previous estimates to reflect what we then believe to be a more accurate representation of expected future costs. Because our estimates and assumptions regarding impairment and restructuring charges include probabilities of future events, such as expected operating results, future economic conditions, the ability to find a sublease tenant within a reasonable period of time or the rate at which a sublease tenant will pay for the available space, such estimates are inherently vulnerable to changes due to unforeseen circumstances that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Adverse changes in any of these factors could result in an additional impairment and restructuring charges in the future. Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and likely will continue to fluctuate, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock. We have experienced fluctuations in our results of operations on a quarterly and annual basis. Fluctuation in our operating results may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We expect to experience continued fluctuations in our operating results in the foreseeable future due to a variety of factors, including: ● competition and the introduction of new services by our competitors; ● continued pricing pressures resulting from competitors’ strategies or excess bandwidth supply; ● fluctuations in the demand and sales cycle for our services; ● fluctuations in the market for qualified sales and other personnel; ● the cost and availability of adequate public utilities, including power; ● our ability to obtain local loop connections to our network access points at favorable prices; ● general economic conditions; and ● any impairments or restructurings charges that we may incur in the future. - 13 - - In addition, fluctuations in our results of operations may arise from strategic decisions we have made or may make with respect to the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures such as those associated with the expansion of our data center facilities, the deployment of additional network access points and the terms of our network connectivity purchase agreements. A relatively large portion of our expenses are fixed in the short-term, particularly with respect to lease and personnel expense, depreciation and amortization and interest expense. Our results of operations, therefore, are particularly sensitive to fluctuations in revenue. We can offer no assurance that the results of any particular period are an indication of future performance in our business operations. Fluctuations in our results of operations could have a negative impact on our ability to raise additional capital and execute our business plan. Our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our stock. Failure to sustain or increase our revenues may cause our business and financial results to suffer. We have considerable fixed expenses, and we expect to continue to incur significant expenses, particularly with the expansion of our data center facilities. We incur a substantial portion of these expenditures upfront, and are only able to recover these costs over time. We must, therefore, at least sustain or generate higher revenues to maintain profitability. Although revenue from our data center services segment is growing, this segment has lower margins than our IP services segment. If we are unable to increase our margins in the data center services segment, our business may suffer. Numerous factors could affect our ability to increase revenue, either alone or in combination with other factors, including: ● failure to increase sales of our services and products; ● pricing pressures; ● significant increases in bandwidth and data center costs or other operating expenses; ● failure of our services or products to operate as expected; ● loss of customers or inability to attract new customers or loss of existing customers at a rate greater than our increase in new customers; ● inability of customers to pay for services and products on a timely basis or at all or failure to continue to purchase our services and products in accordance with their contractual commitments; or ● network failures and any breach or unauthorized access to our network. Our common stockholders may experience significant dilution, which could depress the market price of our common stock. Holders of our stock options may exercise those options to purchase our common stock, which would increase the number of shares of our common stock that are outstanding in the future. As of December 31, 2009, options to purchase an aggregate of 4.3 million shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $7.16 were outstanding. Also, the vesting of 1.1 million outstanding shares of restricted stock will increase the weighted average number of shares used for calculating diluted net loss per share. Greater than expected capital requirements could require us to obtain additional financing through the issuance of securities, which could be in the form of common stock or preferred stock or other securities having greater rights than our common stock. The issuance of our common stock or other securities, whether upon the exercise of options, the future vesting and issuance of stock awards to our executives and employees or in financing transactions, could depress the market price of our common stock by increasing the number of shares of common stock or other securities outstanding on an absolute basis or as a result of the timing of additional shares of common stock becoming available on the market. Any failure to meet our debt obligations and other long-term commitments would damage our business. As of December 31, 2009, our total long-term debt, including capital leases, was $23.2 million. If we use more cash than we generate in the future, our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our future operations by increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions and by limiting or prohibiting our ability to obtain additional financing for future capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes. In addition, if we are unable to make interest or principal payments when due, we would be in default under the terms of our long-term debt obligations, which would result in all principal and interest becoming due and payable which, in turn, would seriously harm our business. We also have other long-term commitments for operating leases and service contracts totaling $226.7 million over the next 15 years with a minimum of $36.2 million payable in 2010. If we are unable to make payments when due, we would be in breach of contractual terms of the agreements, which may result in disruptions of our services which, in turn, would seriously harm our business. - 14 - - Our existing credit agreement puts limitations upon us. Our existing credit agreement, which expires in September 2011, puts operating and financial limitations on us and requires us to meet certain financial covenants. These limitations may negatively impact our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by limiting or prohibiting us from engaging in certain transactions. Our credit agreement contains certain covenants, including those that limit our ability to incur further indebtedness, make acquisitions or investments, make certain capital expenditures and create liens on our assets, in addition to covenants that require us to maintain minimum liquidity levels. If we do not satisfy these covenants, we would be in default under the credit agreement. Any defaults, if not waived, could result in our lender ceasing to make loans or extending credit to us, accelerating or declaring all or any obligations immediately due or taking possession of or liquidating collateral. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance the credit agreement on terms that are acceptable to us, which could materially and adversely impact our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Finally, our ability to access the capital markets may be limited at a time when we would like or need to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to pursue expansion opportunities and maintain our desired level of revenue growth in the future. Our ability to use U.S. net operating loss carryforwards might be limited. As of December 31, 2009, we had net operating loss carryforwards of $179.5 million for U.S. federal tax purposes. These loss carryforwards expire between 2020 and 2026. To the extent these net operating loss carryforwards are available, we intend to use them to reduce the corporate income tax liability associated with our operations. Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in stock ownership. To the extent our use of net operating loss carryforwards is significantly limited, our income could be subject to corporate income tax earlier than it would if we were able to use net operating loss carryforwards, which could result in lower profits. Our stock price may be volatile. The market for our equity securities has been extremely volatile. Our stock price could suffer in the future as a result of any failure to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors about our results of operations from quarter to quarter. The following factors could cause the price of our common stock in the public market to fluctuate significantly: ● actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly and annual results of operations; ● changes in market valuations of companies in the Internet connectivity and services industry; ● changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; ● fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; ● future issuances of common stock or other securities; ● the addition or departure of key personnel; and ● announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances. We previously identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Although we have remediated this weakness, any additional control deficiencies could cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations or prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial reports or avoiding or detecting fraud. We must maintain effective internal controls to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and prevent fraud. These controls are designed and implemented to help ensure reliable financial statement reporting, including accurate reserves, estimates, judgments and disclosures. In connection with our evaluation of internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2007, we identified a material weakness related to effective controls over the analysis of requests for sales credits and billing adjustments. We remediated this weakness during the year ended December 31, 2008; however, any additional control deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we may identify in the future could require us to incur significant costs, expend significant time and management resources or make other changes. Any delay or failure to design and implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation or operation may cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations or prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial reports or avoiding or detecting fraud. Our business requires the continued development of effective and efficient business support systems to support our customer growth and related services. The growth of our business depends on our ability to continue to develop effective, efficient business support policies, processes and systems. This is a complicated undertaking requiring significant resources and expertise. Business support systems are needed for: ● sourcing, evaluating and targeting potential customers and managing existing customers; - 15 - - ● implementing customer orders for services; ● delivering these services; ● timely billing for these services; ● budgeting, forecasting, tracking and reporting our results of operations; and ● providing technical and operational support to customers and tracking the resolution of customer issues. If the number of customers that we serve or our services portfolio increases, we may need to develop additional business support systems on a schedule sufficient to meet proposed service rollout dates. The failure to continue to develop effective and efficient business support systems could harm our ability to implement our business plans and meet our financial goals and objectives. We depend upon our key employees and may be unable to attract or retain sufficient numbers of qualified personnel. Our future performance depends upon the continued contributions of our executive management team and other key employees. To the extent we are able to expand our operations and deploy additional network access points, we may need to increase our workforce. Accordingly, our future success depends on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain highly skilled management, technical, sales, research and development, marketing and customer support personnel. Competition for qualified employees is intense, and we compete for qualified employees with companies that may have greater financial resources than we have. Our employment security plan with our executive officers provides that either party may terminate their employment at any time. Consequently, we may not be successful in attracting, hiring, training and retaining the people we need, which would seriously impede our ability to implement our business strategy. Additionally, changes in our senior management team during the past several years, both through voluntary and involuntary separation, have resulted in loss of valuable company intellectual capital and in paying significant severance and hiring costs. With reduced staffing, or staffing new to the organization, we may not be able to maintain an adequate separation of duties in key areas of monitoring, oversight and review functions and may not have adequate succession plans in place to mitigate the impact of future personnel losses. If we continue to experience similar levels of turnover in our senior management team, the execution of our corporate strategy could be affected and the costs of such changes could negatively impact our operations. Our international operations may not be successful. We have limited experience operating internationally and have only recently begun to achieve some success in our international operations. We currently have network access points or CDN POPs in Amsterdam, Hong Kong, London, Mumbai, Singapore, Sydney and Toronto. We also participate in a joint venture with NTT-ME Corporation and Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation, or NTT Holdings, that operates network access points in Tokyo and Osaka, Japan. We may develop or acquire network access points or complementary businesses in additional international markets. The risks associated with expansion of our international business operations include: ● challenges in establishing and maintaining relationships with foreign customers as well as foreign NSPs and local vendors, including data center and local network operators; ● challenges in staffing and managing network operations centers and network access points across disparate geographic areas; ● potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than the laws in the United States; ● challenges in reducing operating expense or other costs required by local laws, and longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; ● exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; ● costs of customizing network access points for foreign countries and customers; ● compliance with requirements of foreign laws, regulations and other governmental controls, including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that may reduce the flexibility of our business operations or favor local competition; We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to address the risks associated with our international operations, which may limit our international sales growth and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. - 16 - - If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, we may lose rights to some of our most valuable assets. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property law, nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to protect our proprietary rights. We also utilize unpatented proprietary know-how and trade secrets and employ various methods to protect such intellectual property. We believe our intellectual property rights are significant and that the loss of all or a substantial portion of such rights could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We can offer no assurance that our intellectual property protection measures will be sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, the laws of many foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States. From time-to-time, third parties have or may assert infringement claims against us or against our customers in connection with their use of our products or services. In addition, we rely on the intellectual property of others. We may desire or be required to renew or to obtain licenses from these other parties to further develop and market commercially-viable products or services effectively. We can offer no assurance that any necessary licenses will be available on reasonable terms, or at all. We may face litigation and liability due to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. The Internet services industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. From time-to-time, third parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. Any claims that our services or products infringe or may infringe proprietary rights of third parties, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could significantly impact our operating results. In addition, our customer agreements generally provide for us to indemnify our customers for expenses and liabilities resulting from claimed infringement of patents or copyrights of third parties, subject to certain limitations. If an infringement claim against us were to be successful, and we were not able to obtain a license to the relevant technology or a substitute technology on acceptable terms or redesign our services or products to avoid infringement, our ability to compete successfully in our market would be materially impaired. We are currently subject to a securities class action lawsuit and a derivative action lawsuit, the unfavorable outcomes of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In November 2008, a putative securities class action lawsuit was filed against us and our former chief executive officer and in November 2009, a putative derivative lawsuit was filed purportedly on our behalf against certain of our directors and officers. While we are, and will continue to, vigorously contest these lawsuits, we cannot determine the final resolution of these lawsuits or when they might be resolved. In addition to the expenses incurred in defending this litigation and any damages that may be awarded in the event of an adverse ruling, our management’s efforts and attention may be diverted from the ordinary business operations to address these claims. Regardless of the outcome, this litigation may have a material adverse impact on our results because of defense costs, including costs related to our indemnification obligations, diversion of resources and other factors. We discuss these lawsuits further in “Legal Proceedings” below. We may become involved in other litigation that may adversely affect us. In the ordinary course of business, we are or may become involved in litigation, administrative proceedings and governmental proceedings. Such matters can be time-consuming, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. The results of any such actions could have a material adverse impact on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company. These provisions are intended to protect stockholders’ interests by providing our board of directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. Such provisions include a board of directors that is classified so that only one-third of directors stand for election each year. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. - 17 - - 