Item 1A. Risk Factors Changes in interest rates could reduce income, cash flows and asset values. The Company’s income and cash flows and the value of assets depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors which are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence not only the interest received on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, but will also affect the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits and the value of its investment portfolio. If the rate of interest paid on deposits and other borrowings increases more than the rate of interest earned on loans and other investments, net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. The Company’s earnings also could be adversely affected if the rates on its loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on its deposits and other borrowings. Economic conditions either nationally or locally in areas in which the Company’s operations are concentrated may adversely affect its business. Deterioration in local, regional, national or global economic conditions could cause the Company to experience a reduction in deposits and new loans, an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, all of which could adversely affect performance and financial condition. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services locally. Therefore, it is particularly vulnerable to adverse local economic conditions. The financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if the allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses or if the Company is required to increase its allowance. Despite the Company’s underwriting criteria, it may experience loan delinquencies and losses. In order to absorb losses associated with nonperforming loans, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions, and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Determination of the allowance inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Company to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. At any time, there are likely to be loans in the portfolio that will result in losses but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem credits. The Company cannot be sure that it will be able to identify deteriorating credits before they become nonperforming assets or that it will be able to limit losses on those loans that are identified. The Company may be required to increase its allowance for loan losses for any of several reasons. Regulators, in reviewing the loan portfolio as part of a regulatory examination, may request that the Company increase its allowance for loan losses. Changes in economic conditions affects borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Company’s control, may require an increase in its allowance. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses; the Company will need additional increases in its allowance for loan losses. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital and may materially affect the results of operations in the period in which the allowance is increased. Competition may decrease growth or profits. The Company faces substantial competition in all phases of its operations from a variety of different competitors, including commercial banks, credit unions, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and money market funds. There is very strong competition among financial services providers in the Company’s principal service area. Competitors may have greater resources, higher lending limits or larger branch systems than does the Company. Accordingly, they may be able to offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Company can. In addition, some of the financial services organizations with which the Company competes are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on federally insured financial institutions. As a result, those non-bank competitors may be able to access funding and provide various services more easily or at less cost than the Company, adversely affecting its ability to compete effectively. 12 The Company may be adversely affected by government regulation. The banking industry is heavily regulated. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect the federal deposit insurance funds and consumers, not shareholders. Changes in the laws, regulations, and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may increase the Company’s cost of doing business or otherwise adversely affect it and create competitive advantages for others. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and the Company cannot predict the ultimate effect of these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on its profitability or financial condition. The Company relies on its management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely affect its operations. The Company is, and will continue to be, dependent upon the services of its management team. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel could have an adverse effect on its business and financial condition because of their skills, knowledge of the Company’s market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Environmental liability associated with lending activities could result in losses. In the course of normal business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing its loans. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, it could be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether the Company knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if the Company arranges for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, it may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site even if it neither owns nor operates the disposal site. Environmental laws may require it to incur substantial expenses and may materially limit use of properties the Company acquires through foreclosure, reduce their value or limit its ability to sell them in the event of a default on the loans they secure. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase its exposure to environmental liability. Failure to implement new technologies in operations may adversely affect growth or profits. The market for financial services, including banking services and consumer finance services, is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in telecommunications, data processing, computers, automation, internet-based banking and telebanking. The Company’s ability to compete successfully in its markets may depend on the extent to which it is able to exploit such technological changes. However, the Company can provide no assurance that it will be able to properly or timely anticipate or implement such technologies or properly train its staff to use such technologies. Any failure to adapt to new technologies could adversely affect its business, financial condition or operating results. An investment in the Company’s common stock is not an insured deposit. The Company’s stock price is subject to market forces that could have an adverse affect to its stocks market value. The Company’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, or any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company’s common stock is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. 13 The Company’s legal lending limits are relatively low and this may restrict its ability to compete for larger customers. At December 31, 2011, the Company’s lending limit per borrower was approximately $8.5 million or approximately 15% of its unimpaired capital. Accordingly, the size of loans that the Company can offer to potential borrowers, without participation by other lenders, is less than the size of loans that many of its competitors with larger capitalization are able to offer. The Company’s legal lending limit also impacts the efficiency of its lending operation because it tends to lower its average loan size, which means it has to generate a higher number of transactions to achieve the same portfolio volume. The Company may engage in loan participations with other banks for loans in excess of its legal lending limits. However, there can be no assurance that such participations will be available at all or on terms which are favorable to the Company and its customers. The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. Although the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of these information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage its reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject it to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose it to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Rapid growth could require the Company to raise additional capital. The Company is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. As a financial holding company, the Company seeks to maintain capital sufficient to meet the “well-capitalized” standard set by regulators. The Company anticipates that its current capital resources will satisfy its capital requirements for the foreseeable future. The Company may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support continued growth, whether such growth occurs internally or through acquisitions. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of the Company’s control, and on the Company’s financial performance. Accordingly, there can be no assurance of the Company’s ability to expand its operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. As such, the Company may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter term securities than desired or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease profitability and significantly reduce financial flexibility. In the event current sources of liquidity, including internal sources, do not satisfy the Company’s needs, the Company would be required to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, the Company’s credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of the Company’s long- or short-term financial prospects if the Company incurs large credit losses or if the level of business activity decreases due to economic conditions. Market conditions may adversely affect fee based investment business. The Company receives fee based revenues from commissions on the sale of securities and investment advisory fees. In the event of decreased stock market activity, the volume of trading executed by its Wealth Management subsidiary will in all likelihood decrease resulting in decreased commission revenue on purchases and sales of securities. In addition, investment advisory fees, which are generally based on a percentage of the total value of an investment portfolio, will decrease in the event of decreases in the values of the investment portfolios as a result of overall market declines. 14 Available Information The Company files reports, proxy and information statements and other information electronically with the SEC. You may read and copy any materials that the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F. Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549 on official business days between the hours of 10:00am and 3:00pm EST. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. The SEC’s website address is http://www.sec.gov. Copies of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with the SEC may be obtained without charge by writing to Peoples Financial Services Corp., 82 Franklin Avenue, Hallstead, PA 18822, Attn: Investor Relations or through the Company’s website at http://www.peoplesnatbank.com. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 