RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY Technology changes as required by our customers could limit and impair our ability to produce products. We are predominantly dependent on LCD and touch based technologies. We are continuing to develop our expertise and broaden our product line in newer LCD products and multi-touch technologies. As we continue to participate in developing solutions for future technological applications for our customers such as software configuration tools and digital signage and smart vending, and in the future organic light emitting diode (“OLED”), transmissive, flexible LCDs and 3D, the need for us to be able to provide a value-added component to the technology remains a critical capability. The loss or interruption of supply from our key parts suppliers could limit our ability to manufacture our products. We purchase certain materials and components for our products from various suppliers, some of which are located outside of the U.S. We are obtaining all our LCD displays from four sources, namely AUO Optronics, Samsung Display, LG Display and Che Mei Display. We are obtaining all our LCD chassis subassembly boards primarily from three sources, HT Precision Technologies (“HTP”), Axiomtek Display Systems (“ADS”) and Sampo and final assembly also from HTP and ADS. Any loss or interruption of supply from our key parts suppliers may require us to find new suppliers. The number of suppliers for certain electronic components and raw materials is limited. We could experience production or development delays while we seek new suppliers and could have difficulty finding new suppliers, which would substantially impair our operating results and business. Our growth could be impaired if we are not able to continue to develop and maintain the success of our Asian subcontract relationships. Our Asian subcontract relationships for LCD video displays and chassis are an important part of our revenue and earnings plan. If we are unable to continue to successfully execute this strategy with our current LCD subcontractors, HTP and ADS, we may not be able to maintain our revenues and earnings as expected. Please see additional detail regarding our suppliers provided in the MANUFACTURING AND ASSEMBLY section on page 3. The loss of our either of our two largest customers would reduce our revenues and our profitability. Our largest customer, Spielo Manufacturing ULC of Lottomatica, accounted for 30%, 12% and 21% of total revenues in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and 20% and 8% of total accounts receivable as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The second largest customer, Aristocrat Technologies Ltd., Pty., accounted for 15%, 22% and 29% of the total revenue in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and 29% and 41% of the total accounts receivable as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. A loss of either customer would significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. -5- TABLE OF CONTENTS The goodwill of our American Gaming & Electronics acquisition in 2000 could become impaired. The Company is required to measure the potential impairment of the goodwill related to our 2000 acquisition of American Gaming & Electronics per FASB ASC 350-20, Goodwill Subsequent Measurement, at least annually. The goodwill amount on our balance sheet at December 31, 2012 and 2011 is $1,329,000. The measurement of the American Gaming & Electronics reporting unit Fair Value requires certain management assumptions regarding future sales, gross margins, operating expense, effective tax rates, and net working capital requirements. The 2012 year end analysis assumed that AGE would have significant sales from the Illinois Video Lottery terminal market in addition to its usual replacement kit, parts, and service distribution activities. The analysis also requires the Company to determine appropriate discount rates for the next five years, the perpetuity growth and discount rate, and the perpetuity tax rate. To the extent that the indicated Fair Value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying value, then there is no indicated impairment. Conversely, in the event that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its indicated Fair Value, then some level of goodwill impairment has potentially occurred and additional analysis is necessary to quantify the level of impairment (i.e. Step II), if any. The Company passed the step I test at December 31, 2012 and 2011; therefore there was no impairment. However, there is no certainty in future periods that the Fair Value of the American Gaming & Electronics reporting unit will exceed its carrying value. Intense competition in our industry could impair our ability to grow and achieve profitability. We may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors. The market for our products and services is intensely competitive and constantly attracts new competitors even as others leave the industry due to low barriers, except for VGT, to entry to our business. We expect this competition to further intensify in the future. Some of our competitors are large companies with greater financial, marketing and product development resources. In addition, new competitors may enter our key markets. This may place us at a disadvantage in responding to our competitors’ pricing strategies, technological advances and other initiatives. The ability to assist our Illinois VGT customers to obtain financing may affect our VGT sales and profitability. Our Illinois VGT customers require significant financing in order to purchase our VGT equipment. Due to the high initial cost of VGT equipment, approximately seventy percent of our sales are dependent upon their ability to obtain financing. The Company has been successful to date in helping them to obtain financing from the equipment supplier and other independent sources, such as Firestone Financial. However, there is no certainty that the Company will be able to continue to receive adequate additional financing for our VGT customers in the future. The gaming business is heavily regulated and we depend on our ability to obtain/maintain regulatory approvals. The manufacture and distribution of parts for gaming machines are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign regulations, and the governments of the various gaming jurisdictions amend these regulations from time to time. Virtually all of these jurisdictions require licenses, permits, documentation of qualification, including evidence of financial stability, and other forms of approval for manufacturers and distributors of gaming machines and for their key personnel. The revocation or denial of a license in a particular jurisdiction could adversely affect our ability to obtain or maintain licenses in other jurisdictions. Also, there is always the potential that laws and regulations could be changed or repealed, even after their adoption. These changes could affect our business and results of operations. The loss of our bank line would severely limit our ability to fund operations. Our current bank line expires August 21, 2016 and requires the Company to maintain certain financial covenants. The Company fully intends to maintain compliance with the covenants under its bank line and expects it will be able to do so. If unsuccessful, the Company would be severely limited in its ability to fund operations. -6- TABLE OF CONTENTS The market price for our shares is susceptible to significant changes in market price. Historically, the volume of trading of our shares has been small. As a result, larger than average buy or sell orders on a given day, or news about us or the gaming industry, has had and may in the future have a significant impact on the trading price for our shares. The current economic conditions might cause sales to decline without warning making it difficult to reduce costs fast enough to maintain profitability. The Company is concerned that our customers and their customers business might decline more than they currently are forecasting making it difficult for us to reduce our expenses as fast as our sales decline. In addition, the Company has made a conscious decision to increase its investment in engineering for the next year, which may affect its profitability. Although the Company will make every effort to keep our other expenses in line with current sales, we could experience periods where the sales decline occurs so rapidly that we are unprofitable for a period of time. Available Information The Company files reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission and files all required reports under the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Because we want to provide you with more meaningful and useful information, this Annual Report includes forward-looking statements that reflect our current expectations and projections about our future results, performance, prospects and opportunities. You can find many of these statements by looking for words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “estimate” and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities in 2012 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to the factors described under the heading “Risk Factors” above. We caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Except as otherwise required by federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or any other reason after the date of this Annual Report. 