Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves risk. You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before investing in our common stock. If We Do Not Generate Sufficient Cash Flow, We May Not Be Able to Implement Our Growth Strategy. The rate of our expansion will depend on, among other factors, the availability of adequate capital, which in turn will depend in large part on cash flow generated by our business and the availability of equity and debt capital. The cost of opening new stores or expanding, remodeling and relocating existing stores — which is at the heart of our growth strategy — may increase in the future compared to historical costs. There can be no assurance that our business will generate adequate cash flow or that we will be able to obtain equity or debt capital on acceptable terms, or at all. Moreover, our senior credit facility contains provisions that restrict the amount of debt we may incur in the future. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient capital, we may be unable to open additional stores or expand, remodel and relocate existing stores as planned, which may adversely affect our growth strategy resulting in a decrease in net sales. There can be no assurances that we will be able to achieve our current plans for the opening of new stores and the expansion, remodeling or relocation of existing stores. 10 Table of Contents If We Are Unable to Profitably Open and Operate New Stores at a Rate that Exceeds Planned Store Closings, We May Not Be Able to Adequately Execute Our Growth Strategy, Resulting in a Decrease in Net Sales and Net Income. A key element of our growth strategy is to open new stores, both in existing markets and in new geographic markets that we select based on customer data and demographics. During fiscal 2012, we opened 42 new stores and we closed 28 stores. Our future operating results will depend to a substantial extent on whether we are able to continue to open and operate new stores successfully at a rate that exceeds our planned store closings. Our ability to open new stores and to expand, remodel and relocate existing stores depends on a number of factors, including the prevailing conditions in the commercial real estate market and our ability to: • Maintain or obtain adequate capital resources for leasehold improvements, fixtures and inventory on acceptable terms; • locate and obtain favorable store sites and negotiate acceptable lease terms; • construct or refurbish store sites; • obtain and distribute adequate product supplies to our stores; • maintain adequate warehousing and distribution capability at acceptable costs; • hire, train and retain skilled managers and personnel; and • continue to upgrade our information and other operating systems to control the anticipated growth and expanded operations. There also can be no assurance that we will be able to open, expand, remodel and relocate stores at the anticipated rate, if at all. Furthermore, there is no assurance that new stores that we open will generate net sales levels necessary to achieve store-level profitability. New stores that we open in our existing markets may draw customers away from our existing stores and may have lower net sales growth compared to stores opened in new markets. Every year we decide to close certain stores based on a number of factors, including planned location of new stores nearby, excessive rent or other operating cost increases, inadequate profitability, and other reasons. Store closings have the effect of reducing net sales. If we are not able to open new stores at a pace that exceeds the closing of existing stores we will not achieve our planned revenue growth. New stores also may face greater competition and have lower anticipated net sales volumes relative to previously opened stores during their comparable years of operations. New stores opened in new markets, where we are less familiar with the target customer and less well known, may face different or additional risks and increased costs compared to stores operated in existing markets. Also, stores opened in off-mall locations may require greater marketing costs in order to attract customer traffic. These factors, together with increased pre-opening expenses at our new stores, may reduce our average store contribution and operating margins. If we are unable to profitably open and operate new stores and maintain the profitability of our existing stores, our net income could suffer. The success of our growth plan will be dependent on our ability to promote and/or recruit a sufficient number of qualified district managers, store managers and sales associates to support the expected growth in the number of our stores. In addition, the time and effort required to train and supervise a large number of new managers and associates may divert resources from our existing stores and adversely affect our operating and financial performance. Our operating expenses would also increase as a result of any increase in the minimum wage or other factors that would require increases in the compensation paid to our employees. Our Success Depends Upon our Marketing, Advertising and Promotional Efforts. If We are Unable to Implement them Successfully, or if Our Competitors are More Effective Than We Are, Our Revenue May Be Adversely Affected. We use marketing and promotional programs to attract customers to our stores and to encourage purchases by our customers. We use various media for our promotional efforts, including print, database marketing, email communications and other electronic communications such as paid search advertising and online social networks. If we fail to choose the appropriate medium for our efforts, or fail to implement and execute new marketing opportunities, our competitors may be able to attract some of our customers. Changes in the amount and degree of promotional intensity or merchandising strategy by our competitors could cause us to have difficulties in retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. We May Not Be Able to Successfully Anticipate Consumer Trends and Our Failure to Do So May Lead to Loss of Consumer Acceptance of Our Products Resulting in Reduced Net Sales. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing merchandise trends and consumer demands in a timely manner. While we devote considerable effort and resources to shape, analyze and respond to consumer preferences, consumer spending patterns and preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and can change rapidly. Our product introductions and product improvements, along with our other marketplace initiatives, are designed to capitalize on customer or consumer trends. In order to remain successful, we must anticipate and react to these trends and develop new products or processes to address them. If we fail to identify and respond to emerging trends, consumer acceptance of the merchandise in our stores and our image with our customers may be harmed, which could reduce customer traffic in our stores and materially adversely affect our net sales. Additionally, if we misjudge market trends, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns, which would have a negative impact on our gross profit and cash flow. Conversely, shortages of items that prove popular could reduce our net sales. In addition, a major shift in consumer demand away from home décor could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Our Results Could be Negatively Impacted if our Merchandise Offering Suffers a Substantial Impediment to its Reputation Due to Real or Perceived Quality Issues. Maintaining, promoting and growing our merchandise offering will depend largely on the success of our design, merchandising, and marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high quality client experience. If we fail to achieve these objectives, our public image and reputation could be tarnished by negative publicity. If our merchandise offerings do not meet applicable safety standards or customer expectations regarding safety, we could experience lost sales and increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. All of our vendors must comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. Events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns with respect to our products could expose us to government enforcement action or private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. In addition, negative customer perceptions regarding the safety of the products we sell could cause our customers to seek alternative sources for their needs, resulting in lost sales. In those circumstances, it may be difficult and costly for us to regain customer confidence. We Face an Extremely Competitive Specialty Retail Business Market, and Such Competition Could Result in a Reduction of Our Prices and a Loss of Our Market Share. The retail market is a highly competitive market. We compete against a diverse group of retailers, including specialty stores, department stores, discount stores, catalog and Internet-based retailers, which sell similar lines of merchandise to those carried by us. Our competitors, many of which are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than us, include HomeGoods, Bed, Bath & Beyond, Cost Plus World Market, Hobby Lobby, Pier 1 Imports, Target, Ebay, Amazon.com and Overstock.com. Our “brick-and-mortar” stores and our kirklands.com website also compete with the ever-increasing number of Internet retail websites offering home décor and gift merchandise. The availability of home décor and gift merchandise from various competitors on the Internet could result in increased price competition as our customers are more readily able to comparison shop, which could reduce our sales, prices and margins and adversely affect our results of operations. Competitors may have greater financial, distribution, logistics, marketing and other resources available to them and may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the design, sourcing, distribution, marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Our competitors may also be able to increase sales in their new and existing markets faster than we do by emphasizing different distribution channels than we do. If we are unable to overcome these potential competitive disadvantages, such factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product Liability Claims Could Adversely Affect Our Reputation. We may be subject to product liability claims if customers are harmed by the products that we sell. Claims, recalls or actions could be based on allegations that, among other things, the products sold by us are misbranded, contain contaminants or impermissible ingredients, provide inadequate instructions regarding their use or misuse, or include inadequate warnings concerning flammability or interactions with other substances. A significant product liability judgment or a widespread product recall may negatively impact the sales and profitability of the affected merchandise or all of our merchandise. Weather Conditions Could Adversely Affect Our Sales and/or Profitability by Affecting Consumer Shopping Patterns. Our operating results may be adversely affected by severe or unexpected weather conditions. Frequent or unusual snow, ice or rain storms or extended periods of unseasonable temperatures in our markets could adversely affect our performance by affecting customer shopping patterns or diminishing demand for seasonal merchandise. Our Performance May be Affected by General Economic Conditions. Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending. Some of the factors that have had, and may in the future have, an impact on discretionary consumer spending include national or global economic downturns, an increase in consumer debt (and a corresponding decrease in the availability of affordable consumer credit), reductions in net worth based on recent severe market declines, softness in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, changes in taxation, increases in fuel and energy prices, fluctuation in interest rates, low consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors. Specialty retail is a cyclical industry that is heavily dependent upon the overall level of consumer spending. Purchases of home décor and gifts tend to be highly correlated with cycles in consumers’ disposable income and trends in the housing market. A weak retail environment could impact customer traffic in our stores and also adversely affect our net sales. Because of the seasonality of our business, economic downturns, increased sourcing costs, or scarcity in equipment during the last quarter of our fiscal year could adversely affect us to a greater extent than if such downturns occurred at other times of the year. As purchases of home décor items may decline during recessionary periods, a prolonged recession, including any related decrease in consumers’ disposable incomes, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Should credit markets tighten or turmoil in the financial markets continue or increase, our ability to access funds, refinance our existing indebtedness (if necessary), enter into agreements for new indebtedness or obtain funding through the issuance of our securities would be adversely impacted. The impact of any such credit crisis or market turmoil on our major suppliers cannot be predicted. The inability of key suppliers to access liquidity, or the insolvency of key suppliers, could lead to their failure to deliver our merchandise. Worsening economic conditions could also result in difficulties for financial institutions (including bank failures) and other parties with whom we do business, which could potentially impair our ability to access financing under existing arrangements or to otherwise recover amounts as they become due under our other contractual arrangements. Additionally, both as a result and independent of the current financial crisis in the United States, material fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a negative impact on our business. Changes in Accounting and Tax Rules and Regulations May Adversely Affect our Operating Results. Our operating results and financial position could be negatively impacted by changes to accounting rules and regulations or new interpretations of existing accounting standards. Our effective income tax rate could be impacted by changes in accounting standards as well as changes in tax laws or the interpretations of these tax laws by courts and taxing authorities which could negatively impact our financial results. Our Freight Costs and thus Our Cost of Goods Sold are Impacted by Changes in Fuel Prices. Our freight cost is impacted by changes in fuel prices through surcharges. Fuel prices and surcharges affect freight costs with respect to both on inbound freight from vendors to our distribution center and outbound freight from our distribution center to our stores. Increased fuel prices or surcharges may increase freight costs and thereby increase our cost of goods sold. New Legal Requirements Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. Our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected by new legal requirements, including health care reform and proposed climate change and other environmental legislation and regulations. In 2010, the Patient Protection Act and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law in the U.S. This legislation expands health care coverage to many uninsured individuals and expands coverage to those already insured. The changes required by this legislation could cause us to incur additional health care and other costs. However, we do not expect any material short-term impact on our financial results as a result of the legislation and are currently assessing the extent of any long-term impact. Concern over climate change, including global warming, has led to legislative and regulatory initiatives directed at limiting greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions. If domestic or international laws or regulations were expanded to require GHG emission reporting or reduction by us or our third-party manufacturers, or if we engage third-party contract manufacturers in countries that have existing GHG emission reporting or reduction laws or regulations, we would need to expend financial and other resources to comply with such regulations and/or monitor our third-party manufacturers’ compliance with such regulations. In addition, we cannot control the actions of our third-party manufacturers or the public’s perceptions of them, nor can we assure that these manufacturers will conduct their businesses using climate change proactive or sustainable practices. Violations of climate change laws or regulations by third parties with whom we do business could result in negative public perception of us and/or delays in shipments and receipt of goods, and could subject us to fines or other penalties, any of which could restrict our business activities, increase our operating expenses or cause our sales to decline The costs and other effects of new legal requirements cannot be determined with certainty. Additional laws may directly or indirectly affect our production, distribution, packaging, cost of raw materials, fuel, ingredients or water, any of which could impact our business and financial results. In addition, our efforts to comply with new legislation or regulations may increase our costs. The Market Price for Our Common Stock Might Be Volatile and Could Result in a Decline in the Value of Your Investment. The price at which our common stock trades may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to our operating results, general trends and prospects for the retail industry, announcements by our competitors, analyst recommendations, our ability to meet or exceed analysts’ or investors’ expectations, the condition of the financial markets and other factors. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock notwithstanding our actual operating performance. 13 Table of Contents Our Comparable Store Net Sales Fluctuate Due to a Variety of Factors. Numerous factors affect our comparable store net sales results, including among others, weather conditions, retail trends, the retail sales environment, economic conditions, the impact of competition and our ability to execute our business strategy efficiently. Our comparable store net sales results have historically experienced fluctuations, including declines in some fiscal periods. Our comparable store net sales may not increase from quarter to quarter, or may decline. As a result, the unpredictability of our comparable store net sales may cause our revenues and operating results to vary quarter to quarter, and an unanticipated decline in revenues or comparable store net sales may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. Failure to Protect the Integrity and Security of Individually Identifiable Data of Our Customers and Employees Could Expose Us to Litigation and Damage Our Reputation; The Expansion of Our e-Commerce Business Has Inherent Cybersecurity Risks That May Result in Business Disruptions. We receive and maintain certain personal information about our customers and employees in the ordinary course of business. Our use of this information is regulated at the international, federal and state levels, as well as by certain third-parties with whom we contract for such services. If our security and information systems are compromised or our business associates fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as operations, results of operations, and financial condition and could result in litigation or the imposition of penalties. As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, we may incur additional costs to ensure we remain in compliance. Certain aspects of the business, particularly our website, heavily depend on consumers entrusting personal financial information to be transmitted securely over public networks. We have experienced increasing e-commerce sales over the past several years, which increases our exposure to cybersecurity risks. We invest considerable resources in protecting the personal information of our customers but are still subject to the risks of security breaches and cyber incidents resulting in unauthorized access to stored personal information. Any breach of our cybersecurity measures could result in violation of privacy laws, potential litigation, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, all of which could have a negative impact on our financial results and our reputation. In addition, a privacy breach could cause us to incur significant costs to restore the integrity of its system and could result in significant costs in government penalties and private litigation. We Depend on a Number of Vendors to Supply Our Merchandise, and Any Delay in Merchandise Deliveries from Certain Vendors May Lead to a Decline in Inventory Which Could Result in a Loss of Net Sales. We purchase our products from approximately 260 vendors with which we have no long-term purchase commitments or exclusive contracts. Historically, we have retained our vendors and we have generally not experienced difficulty in obtaining desired merchandise from vendors on acceptable terms. However, our arrangements with these vendors do not guarantee the availability of merchandise, establish guaranteed prices or provide for the continuation of particular pricing practices. Our current vendors may not continue to sell products to us on current terms or at all, and we may not be able to establish relationships with new vendors to ensure delivery of products in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us. In addition, a period of unfavorable financial performance may make it difficult for some of our vendors to arrange for the financing or factoring of their orders with manufacturers, which could result in our inability to obtain desired merchandise from those vendors. We may not be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on terms acceptable to us in the future. Also, our business would be adversely affected if there were delays in product shipments to us due to freight difficulties, strikes or other difficulties at our principal transport providers or otherwise. We have from time to time experienced delays of this nature. We are also dependent on vendors for assuring the quality of merchandise supplied to us. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise in the future or the loss of one or more of our vendors and our failure to replace any one or more of them may harm our relationship with our customers resulting in a loss of net sales. We Are Dependent on Foreign Imports for a Significant Portion of Our Merchandise, and Any Changes in the Trading Relations and Conditions Between the United States and the Relevant Foreign Countries May Lead to a Decline in Inventory Resulting in a Decline in Net Sales, or an Increase in the Cost of Sales Resulting in Reduced Gross Profit. Most of our merchandise is purchased through vendors in the United States who import the merchandise from foreign countries, primarily China. Our vendors are subject to the risks involved with relying on products manufactured abroad, and we remain subject to those risks to the extent that their effects are passed through to us by our vendors or cause disruptions in supply. These risks include changes in import duties, quotas, loss of “most favored nation” trading status with the United States for a particular foreign country, work stoppages, delays in shipments, first cost price increases, freight cost increases, exchange rate fluctuations, terrorism, war, economic uncertainties (including inflation, foreign government regulations and political unrest), trade restrictions (including the United States imposing antidumping or countervailing duty orders, safeguards, remedies or compensation and retaliation due to illegal foreign trade practices) and other factors relating to foreign trade, including costs and uncertainties associated with efforts to identify and disclose sources of “conflict minerals” used in products that the Company causes to be manufactured and potential sell-through difficulties and reputational damage that may be associated with the inability of the Company to determine that such products are classified as “DRC conflict-free.” If any of these or other factors were to cause a disruption of trade from the countries in which the suppliers of our vendors are located, our inventory levels may be reduced or the cost of our products may increase. 14 Table of Contents Historically, instability in the political and economic environments of the countries in which our vendors obtain our products has not had a material adverse effect on our operations. However, we cannot predict the effect that future changes in economic or political conditions in such foreign countries may have on our operations. Although we believe that we could access alternative sources in the event of disruptions or delays in supply due to economic, political or health conditions in foreign countries, such disruptions or delays may adversely affect our results of operations unless and until alternative supply arrangements can be made. In addition, merchandise purchased from alternative sources may be of lesser quality or more expensive than the merchandise we currently purchase abroad. Countries from which our vendors obtain these products may, from time to time, impose new or adjust prevailing quotas or other restrictions on exported products, and the United States may impose new duties, quotas and other restrictions on imported products. This could disrupt the supply of such products to us and adversely affect our operations. The United States Congress periodically considers other restrictions on the importation of products obtained for us by vendors. The cost of such products may increase for us if applicable duties are raised or import quotas with respect to such products are imposed or made more restrictive. We are also subject to the risk that the manufacturers abroad who ultimately manufacture our products may employ labor practices that are not consistent with acceptable practices in the United States. In any such event we could be hurt by negative publicity with respect to those practices and, in some cases, face liability for those practices. Our Success Is Highly Dependent on Our Planning and Control Processes and Our Supply Chain, and Any Disruption in or Failure to Continue to Improve These Processes May Result in a Loss of Net Sales and Net Income. An important part of our efforts to achieve efficiencies, cost reductions and net sales growth is the continued identification and implementation of improvements to our planning, logistical and distribution infrastructure and our supply chain, including merchandise ordering, transportation and receipt processing. In addition, recent increases in energy prices have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in increased merchandise and freight costs, which cannot readily be offset through higher prices because of competitive factors. A significant portion of the distribution of products to our stores is coordinated through our distribution facility in Jackson, Tennessee. We depend on the orderly operation of this receiving and distribution facility, which depends on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management. We cannot assure that events beyond our control, such as disruptions due to fire or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements or shipping problems, will not result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores. We also cannot guarantee that our insurance will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us, in the event our distribution center is shut down for any reason. Any significant disruption in the operations of this distribution facility would have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain proper inventory levels in our stores which could result in a loss of net sales and net income. Our Business Is Highly Seasonal and Our Fourth Quarter Contributes a Disproportionate Amount of Our Net Sales, Net Income and Cash Flow, and Any Factors Negatively Impacting Us During Our Fourth Quarter Could Reduce Our Net Sales, Net Income and Cash Flow, Leaving Us with Excess Inventory and Making It More Difficult for Us to Finance Our Capital Requirements. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, substantial seasonal fluctuations in our net sales and operating results, which are typical of many specialty retailers and common to most retailers generally. Due to the importance of the fall selling season, which includes Thanksgiving and Christmas, the last quarter of our fiscal year has historically contributed, and is expected to continue to contribute, a disproportionate amount of our net sales, net income and cash flow for the entire fiscal year. We expect this pattern to continue during the current fiscal year and anticipate that in subsequent fiscal years, the last quarter of our fiscal year will continue to contribute disproportionately to our operating results and cash flow. Any factors negatively affecting us during the last quarter of our fiscal year, including unfavorable economic or weather conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, reducing our cash flow, leaving us with excess inventory and making it more difficult for us to finance our capital requirements. We May Experience Significant Variations in Our Quarterly Results. Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly based upon such factors as the timing of new store openings, pre-opening expenses associated with new stores, the relative proportion of new stores to mature stores, net sales contributed by new stores, increases or decreases in comparable store net sales, adverse weather conditions, shifts in the timing of holidays, the timing and level of markdowns, changes in fuel and other shipping costs, changes in our product mix and actions taken by our competitors. 15 Table of Contents Our Hardware and Software Systems Are Vulnerable to Damage that Could Harm Our Business. We rely upon our existing information systems for operating and monitoring all major aspects of our business, including sales, warehousing, distribution, purchasing, inventory control, merchandise planning and replenishment, as well as various financial functions. These systems and our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • fire, flood and other natural disasters; • power loss, computer systems failures, internet and telecommunications or data network failure, operator negligence, improper operation by or supervision of employees, physical and electronic loss of data or security breaches, misappropriation and similar events; and • computer viruses and malicious attacks and security breaches. Any disruption in the operation of our information systems, the loss of employees knowledgeable about such systems or our failure to continue to effectively modify such systems could interrupt our operations or interfere with our ability to monitor inventory, which could result in reduced net sales and affect our operations and financial performance. We also need to ensure that our systems are consistently adequate to handle our anticipated store growth and are upgraded as necessary to meet our needs. The cost of any such system upgrades or enhancements would be significant. If our systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to manage inventories or process guest transactions, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We Depend on Key Personnel, and if We Lose the Services of Any Member of Our Senior Management Team, We May Not Be Able to Run Our Business Effectively. We have benefited substantially from the leadership and performance of our senior management team. Our success will depend on our ability to retain our current senior management members and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and there can be no assurances that we will be able to retain our personnel. The loss of a member of senior management would require the remaining executive officers to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. Our Charter and Bylaw Provisions and Certain Provisions of Tennessee Law May Make It Difficult in Some Respects to Cause a Change in Control of Kirkland’s and Replace Incumbent Management. Our charter authorizes the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, the Board of Directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could materially adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. Holders of the common stock do not have preemptive rights to subscribe for a pro rata portion of any capital stock which may be issued by us. In the event of issuance, such preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of Kirkland’s. Although we have no present intention to issue any new shares of preferred stock, we may do so in the future. Our charter and bylaws contain certain corporate governance provisions that may make it more difficult to challenge management, may deter and inhibit unsolicited changes in control of Kirkland’s and may have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium over the prevailing market price of our common stock in the event of an attempted hostile takeover. First, the charter provides for a classified Board of Directors, with directors (after the expiration of the terms of the initial classified board of directors) serving three year terms from the year of their respective elections and being subject to removal only for cause and upon the vote of 80% of the voting power of all outstanding capital stock entitled to vote (the “Voting Power”). Second, our charter and bylaws do not generally permit shareholders to call, or require that the Board of Directors call, a special meeting of shareholders. The charter and bylaws also limit the business permitted to be conducted at any such special meeting. In addition, Tennessee law permits action to be taken by the shareholders by written consent only if the action is consented to by holders of the number of shares required to authorize shareholder action and if all shareholders entitled to vote are parties to the written consent. Third, the bylaws establish an advance notice procedure for shareholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring other business before meetings of the shareholders. Only those shareholder nominees who are nominated in accordance with this procedure are eligible for election as directors of Kirkland’s, and only such shareholder proposals may be considered at a meeting of shareholders as have been presented to Kirkland’s in accordance with the procedure. Finally, the charter provides that the amendment or repeal of any of the foregoing provisions of the charter mentioned previously in this paragraph requires the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the Voting Power. In addition, the bylaws provide that the amendment or repeal by shareholders of any bylaws made by our Board of Directors requires the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the Voting Power. 16 Table of Contents Furthermore, Kirkland’s is subject to certain provisions of Tennessee law, including certain Tennessee corporate takeover acts that are, or may be, applicable to us. These acts include the Investor Protection Act, the Business Combination Act and the Tennessee Greenmail Act, and these acts seek to limit the parameters in which certain business combinations and share exchanges occur. The charter, bylaws and Tennessee law provisions may have an anti-takeover effect, including possibly discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. Concentration of Ownership among Our Existing Directors, Executive Officers, and Their Affiliates May Prevent New Investors from Influencing Significant Corporate Decisions. As of the date of this filing, our current directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 19% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these shareholders are able to exert significant influence over the outcome of most corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, which may have the effect of delaying or precluding a third party from acquiring control of us. If We Fail to Maintain an Effective System of Internal Control, We May Not be Able to Accurately Report Our Financial Results. We maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting, but there are limitations inherent in internal control systems. If we are unable to maintain adequate and effective internal control over financial reporting, our financial reporting could be adversely affected. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be appropriate relative to their costs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 