risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Investors should also refer to our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for future periods and current reports on Form 8-K as we file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and to other materials we may furnish to the public from time to time. Item 1. Business. General We are a fully integrated, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, that acquires or develops government facilities, which are leased either directly to government entities or private companies who operate the facilities on behalf of government entities. We lease our facilities under long-term, non-cancelable, triple-net leases (leases where the tenant is required to pay all operating expenses, taxes, insurance, maintenance, structural and non-structural repairs and other costs). 2 Table of Contents We were formed in February 1998 as a Maryland REIT and we changed our name from Correctional Properties Trust to CentraCore Properties Trust on December 20, 2005. We have historically focused on acquiring and developing correctional facilities but have also recently expanded our scope to include essential purpose government real estate projects outside the corrections sector, including mental health and higher education facilities. Our current tenants operate detention facilities under management services or operating agreements with various federal, state and local governmental authorities, including: Immigration and Customs Enforcement Oklahoma Department of Corrections Karnes County, Texas Essex County, New Jersey Lea County, New Mexico Union County, New Jersey California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation New Jersey Department of Corrections United States Marshals Service As of March 9, 2006, we owned and leased thirteen correctional and detention facilities in nine states. The aggregate purchase price of our facilities was approximately $263.6 million. Eleven of our facilities are located in eight states and leased to The GEO Group, Inc., or GEO (NYSE: GGI) or its subsidiary. These facilities represented 91% of our rental income for the year ended December 31, 2005. One of our facilities, which represented 9% of our rental income for the year ended December 31, 2005, is located in the State of New Jersey and leased to and operated by Community Education Centers, Inc., or CEC. Our most recently acquired facility is located in the state of California and leased to and operated by Cornell Companies, Inc., or CRN (NYSE: CRN). As of March 9, 2006, the aggregate design capacity of our facilities was 7,556 beds. The location and mailing address of our principal executive offices is 11376 Jog Road, Suite 101, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida 33418. Our telephone number is (561) 630-6336. As of March 9, 2006, we had five employees. In this annual report, unless stated otherwise or unless the content requires otherwise, references to “we,” “us,” “our,” “Company” or “CentraCore Properties” mean CentraCore Properties Trust and its subsidiaries. Recent Events and 2005 Overview Name Change. Effective at the close of business on December 20, 2005, we changed our name from Correctional Properties Trust to CentraCore Properties Trust. Our common stock continues to trade under the symbol “CPV” but under the new CUSIP number 15235H107. In connection with our name change, our website changed to www.CentraCorePropertiesTrust.com. Additionally, in December 2005, we relocated our offices to 11376 Jog Road, Suite 101, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, 33418. We chose CentraCore Properties Trust as our new name because our focus is real estate, which is central to the delivery of core governmental services. Mesa Verde Acquisition. On January 5, 2006, we completed the acquisition of the Mesa Verde Correctional Facility for $16.3 million plus transaction costs. The Mesa Verde Correctional Facility is a 400-bed, minimum-security correctional facility located in Bakersfield, California, and was acquired from Correctional Institution, LLC, an unrelated party. We drew $16.3 million from our existing credit facility to complete the acquisition; however, the property is not subject to a mortgage. Simultaneous with the acquisition, we leased the Mesa Verde Correctional Facility to Cornell Companies, Inc, or CRN. We executed a triple-net lease with CRN, expiring July 31, 2015, with annual rental payments of $1,708,200 (or approximately 10.48 percent of the facility purchase price of $16.3 million) with no annual lease escalator during the initial four and one-half years of the lease, and annual rental payments of $1,963,116 (or approximately 12.04 percent of the facility purchase price of $16.3 million) with no annual lease escalator for the following five years of the lease term. The lease includes a provision under which the lease payment will be increased by up to $50,000 annually during the initial term of the lease if the population housed in the Mesa Verde Correctional Facility is increased. 3 Table of Contents CRN is operating the Mesa Verde Facility on behalf of the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation housing adult, male inmates. CRN has the one-time right to terminate the lease effective July 31, 2010, without cost, if California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation elects not to renew the current operating contract beyond the initial period. Extension of the McFarland Facility Lease. Effective January 1, 2006, we amended the terms of the lease agreement with GEO, relating to the McFarland Community Correctional Facility in McFarland, California. Pursuant to the terms of the amended lease, the annual cash-rent payments are fixed at $950,000 with no annual lease escalator and the amended lease expiration date is March 31, 2016. GEO was awarded a new operating contract on the McFarland Community Correctional Facility with an initial term of five years beginning January 1, 2006, with two five-year renewal options by the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation. GEO has a one-time right to terminate the lease agreement effective 90 days following the expiration of the initial term of the new operating contract, at no cost, if the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation elects not to exercise its option to extend the current operating contract beyond the initial term. Lawton Facility Expansion. On May 27, 2005, we amended the terms of our lease agreement with GEO, dated January 15, 1999, relating to the Lawton Correctional Facility in Lawton, Oklahoma. Pursuant to this first amendment to the lease agreement, we completed the acquisition of an existing 300-bed expansion to the Lawton Correctional Facility from GEO. The acquisition was completed using cash on hand, and no debt was incurred. However, the facility is subject to a mortgage under our existing bank credit facility. The purchase price was $3.5 million. The amended lease also provided for us to fund up to $23 million for a new 600-bed build-to-suit expansion being constructed onto the existing medium-security prison. The acquired 300-bed expansion is leased to GEO at an initial annual rate of $332,500 (or 9.5 percent of our purchase price of $3.5 million). The new 600-bed expansion will also be leased to GEO at an initial annual rate of 9.5 percent of our total costs when it is completed. The amended lease provides a maturity date of 10 years on the entire facility and will commence when the new 600-bed expansion is completed, which is expected to be in the second half of 2006, but no later than the outside date of December 4, 2006 as per the terms of the amended lease. Under the amended lease, rent escalates on an annual basis by an amount equal to increases, if any, in the CPI, subject to a maximum increase of 4.0% per annum. Business and Growth Strategies Operating and Investment Philosophy. Our business objectives are to maximize funds from operations and cash available for distribution to shareholders. We strive to achieve these objectives by: • pursuing investment opportunities with private prison owners and operators and government entities for the financing, development, acquisition and lease back of correctional and detention facilities and other essential purpose government facilities including mental health and higher education facilities; • working with tenants to identify opportunities to expand existing and newly acquired facilities; and • structuring facility leases to include rent escalation provisions which provide for annual increases in rent. Acquisition Opportunities. We believe that, because of the increasing demand for additional prison beds and the lack of capital available to finance new facilities, opportunities exist to finance, acquire or develop correctional and detention facilities from or on behalf of private prison owners and operators and various government entities. We may acquire from both private prison owners and operators and government entities additional correctional and detention facilities that meet our investment guidelines, as described in this report. In addition, we have the right to acquire and lease back to GEO any correctional or detention facilities which GEO acquires or has the right to acquire. This right expires the earlier to occur of the expiration or termination of all leases between us and GEO or April 2013, and is subject to time constraints on each specific property and subject to exceptions where the sale or transfer of ownership of a facility is restricted under a facility operating agreement or governmentally assisted financing arrangement. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions that further diversify our investments with respect to tenant base, underlying government entity and geographic location. 4 Table of Contents We believe that opportunities may exist to finance, acquire or develop correctional facilities from or on behalf of other private prison owners and operators and various government entities. Currently, less than 8% of all adult prison beds in the United States are privately managed. Historically, government entities have used various methods of construction financing to develop new correctional and detention facilities, including, but not limited to the following: (i) one-time general revenue appropriations by the government agency for the cost of the new facility, (ii) general obligation bonds that are secured by either a limited or unlimited tax levied by the issuing government entity or (iii) lease revenue bonds secured by an annual lease payment that is subject to annual or bi-annual legislative appropriation of funds. These jurisdictions are often not in a position to appropriate funds or obtain financing to construct a new correctional or detention facility because of other fiscal demands or requirements for public approval. Accordingly, we believe that, in an attempt to address fiscal pressures of matching revenue collections with projected expenses, these government entities may consider private financing, development, and ownership of new correctional and detention facilities and sale and leaseback transactions or other financing alternatives with respect to existing correctional and detention facilities. We believe that these situations may enable us to finance, acquire and develop correctional or detention facilities from and on behalf of governmental agencies at all levels, including those which might not be the subject of a private management contract. We have previously submitted, and intend to submit future proposals, under which we will finance and develop new real estate facilities which will be leased directly to the government or to companies which will operate the facilities on behalf of the government. These proposals also include the expansion of facilities we currently own, as well as the refurbishment or remodeling of facilities we acquire. Expansion Opportunities. We believe that there may be opportunities for expansion of our existing correctional facilities which could result in increased cash flows from operating activities and property values. We may use our capital to provide expansion space as requested by our tenants and expect that any such expansion of our facilities would result in correspondingly higher rental payments. Alternatively, a tenant may provide the capital for expansion, which should result in enhanced property values. There may also be instances where a tenant makes capital improvements to facilities we own which we then acquire from the tenant, and increase the rental payments accordingly. Rent Escalations. All of our leases contain rent escalation provisions except for the McFarland Facility and the Mesa Verde Facility leases. • GEO. The base rent for the first year of each facility leased to GEO before January 1, 2000 was equal to 9.5% of the facility purchase price. After the first year, minimum rent escalates by the greater of 3.0% or the increase in the Consumer Price Index, or CPI, with a maximum increase of 4.0% for the first two annual anniversaries of the effective date of each lease and, for each successive annual anniversary for the remaining term of each lease, by an amount equal to increases, if any, in the CPI, subject to a maximum increase of 4.0% per annum throughout the term of the leases. The base rent for the first year of the Jena Juvenile Justice Center in Jena, Louisiana leased to GEO was equal to 11.0% of the facility purchase price with a fixed 4.0% annual escalator. The base rent for the first year of the 300-bed expansion to the Lawton Correctional Facility leased to GEO was equal to 9.5% of the purchase price for the expansion. After the first year, minimum rent escalates by an amount equal to increases, if any, in the CPI, subject to a maximum increase of 4.0% per annum throughout the term of the lease. Pursuant to the terms of the amended lease on the McFarland Facility, effective January 1, 2006, the annual base rent is fixed at $950,000 with no annual lease escalator. The average remaining life on the eleven leases with GEO as of March 9, 2006, is approximately 2.7 years (or 4.8 years assuming the new 10-year lease term on the entire Lawton Facility to the year 2016 were already effective). • CEC. On May 29, 2003, we acquired Delaney Hall. The initial base rent rate was $2.31 million per annum or 11.0% of the facility purchase price. Following the first year and continuing during the term of the lease, base rent increases by 3.0% annually on each anniversary. • Cornell Companies, Inc. On January 5, 2006, we acquired Mesa Verde Correctional Facility. The initial annual base rent rate was $1,708,200 (or approximately 10.48% of the facility purchase price of $16.3 million) with no annual lease escalator. After four and one-half years, annual base rent increases to $1,963,116 (or 12.04% of the facility purchase price of $16.3 million) for the following five years of the lease term with no annual lease 5 Table of Contents escalator. CRN has a one-time right to terminate the lease effective July 31, 2010, without cost, if California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation elects not to renew the current operating contract beyond the initial period. The Operating Partnership The Operating Partnership. Substantially all of our assets are held by, and our operations conducted through, CPT Operating Partnership L.P., the operating partnership. We are the sole general partner of the operating partnership and have the exclusive power under the governing partnership agreement to manage and conduct the business of the operating partnership. Our board of trustees manages our affairs by directing the affairs of the operating partnership. Our direct and, through CPT LP, indirect percentage interest in the operating partnership, is 100%. The operating partnership makes regular quarterly cash distributions to its partners, including us and CPT LP, in proportion to their percentage interests in the operating partnership. We, in turn, pay cash distributions to our shareholders in an amount per common share equal to the amount distributed by the operating partnership. Currently, we and CPT LP are the only partners in the operating partnership and possess the power unilaterally to amend and restate the governing partnership agreement. While there are no present plans to issue units to a private prison owner, we may pursue potential acquisitions which, if successful, could involve the issuance of units as a component of the consideration for the acquisitions. Structure of the Company The following diagram sets forth the structure of the Company. (1) Following the consummation of our initial public offering, WCC RE Holdings, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of The GEO Group, was merged with and into WCC RE Holdings LLC, or “WCCRE LLC”, which was formed as a wholly-owned subsidiary of The GEO Group, with WCCRE LLC being the surviving entity. 6 Table of Contents (2) The operating partnership leases the following facilities to The GEO Group: the Queens Facility, the Aurora Facility, the Hobbs Facility, the Karnes Facility, the Lawton Facility, the McFarland Facility and the Jena Facility, and leases the Delaney Hall Facility to CEC and the Mesa Verde Facility to CRN. See “The Facilities.” (3) The operating partnership leases the following facilities to WCCRE LLC, each of which was in turn subleased to The GEO Group: the Broward Facility, the Central Valley Facility, the Golden State Facility and the Desert View Facility. See “The Facilities.” (4) The provisions of some existing facility operating agreements between The GEO Group and the respective contracting government entities afford the governmental entity the right to assume a lease of the respective facility (or designate another facility operator to assume the lease of the respective facility) at a fixed rental rate in the event of the early termination of the facility operating agreement if specified events occur. In these instances, The GEO Group has entered into a sublease for the subject facility with WCCRE LLC, with WCCRE LLC as the sublessor and The GEO Group as the sublessee. The contracting governmental entity has the right to assume the rights of The GEO Group under this sublease on early termination of the operating agreement for the relevant facility. However, even if a government entity elects to exercise its right to assume a sublease relating to a facility, The GEO Group is nevertheless liable to us under the master lease relating to the facility. See “Subleases.” (5) Correctional Properties Prison Finance LLC (formerly known as Correctional Properties North Carolina Prison Finance LLC), or CPPF LLC, is a wholly owned subsidiary of ours. CPPF LLC is a Delaware limited liability company formed to acquire and own the previously owned Mountain View and Pamlico Facilities and issue the Bonds which were used to pay for those acquisitions. On November 4, 2004, we sold the Mountain View and Pamlico Facilities to the State of North Carolina. (6) Public Properties Development & Leasing LLC is a Delaware limited liability company, and it is a wholly owned subsidiary of ours. Relationship With The GEO Group The GEO Group, or GEO, is a leading developer and manager of privatized correctional and detention facilities in the United States and abroad. GEO was founded in 1984 as a division of The Wackenhut Corporation, a leading provider of professional security services, to capitalize on emerging opportunities in the private correctional services market. According to industry reports, GEO is the second largest provider of privatized correctional and detention services in the United States and one of the largest providers of such services abroad, based upon the number of beds under management. As of December 31, 2005, GEO had 58 correctional and detention facilities under contract or award, with an aggregate design capacity of approximately 48,000 beds. Until he resigned in May 2002, one of our current trustees, Richard Wackenhut, had served on the board of directors of The GEO Group while also serving on our Board of Trustees. George Wachenhut, who had served on the board of directors of The GEO Group until May 2002, had served as a trustee on our Board of Trustees until September 2004. And two of our current trustees (Messrs. Jones and Travisono), the former of whom is our President and CEO, previously served as executive officers or directors of GEO prior to our initial public offering on April 28, 1998. In connection with the closing of our initial public offering on April 28, 1998, we and GEO, entered into a series of transactions which were designed to transfer ownership of eight correctional and detention facilities having an aggregate design capacity of 3,154 beds from GEO to us. The sale of these initial facilities was intended to provide a vehicle for possible future acquisitions of other facilities which GEO owns or has a right to acquire, in addition to other facilities we may acquire, and to enable us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. In addition, during the period October 1998 to January 2000, we acquired from GEO three additional facilities for an aggregate purchase price equal to $109.4 million. As a result, we currently lease eleven correctional facilities to GEO under long-term, triple-net leases. The average remaining life on these eleven leases as of March 9, 2006, is approximately 2.7 years. Under the terms of any lease between us and GEO relating to a facility purchased from GEO, GEO has a thirty-day right of first refusal on the proposed sale of the facility by us. 7 Table of Contents In connection with our initial public offering in 1998, we entered into a Right to Purchase Agreement with GEO. Under this agreement, we have the right to acquire and lease back to GEO any correctional or detention facilities which GEO acquires or has the right to acquire. This right expires the earlier to occur of the expiration or termination of all leases between us and GEO or April 2013, and is subject to time constraints on each specific property and subject to exceptions where the sale or transfer of ownership of a facility is restricted under a facility operating agreement or governmentally assisted financing arrangement. Under the terms of the Right to Purchase Agreement, we may purchase a particular facility at any time until the earlier of: • in the case of a newly developed facility, four years from the receipt of a certificate of occupancy for the facility or (b) in the case of an already operating facility, four years from the date the facility is acquired by GEO or the party from which GEO has the right to acquire the facility; or • six months after the facility attains an occupancy level of 75% of the number of beds authorized under the certificate of occupancy for the facility, subject to certain limited exceptions. The purchase price for each purchased facility will equal 105% (or other lower percentage as may be agreed to by GEO) of the aggregate costs related to the acquisition, development, design, construction, equipment and start-up of the relevant facility. GEO has agreed that, with respect to goods or services provided by GEO, these costs will not exceed the costs which would be paid if these goods and services had been purchased from a third party in an arm’s length transaction. In the case of any facility acquired after April 2003, the initial annual rental rate will be the fair market rental rate as mutually agreed upon by us and GEO or as determined by binding arbitration if the parties cannot reach an agreement. 8 Table of Contents Our Facilities The thirteen facilities owned by us at March 9, 2006, which we refer to in this annual report as “our facilities,” were purchased for an aggregate cash purchase price of approximately $263.6 million. We lease eleven of these facilities to GEO or its subsidiary, one of these facilities to Community Education Centers, Inc. and one of these facilities to Cornell Companies, Inc. These thirteen facilities are located in nine states and have an aggregate design capacity of 7,556 beds. The following table sets forth certain information with respect to these facilities as of March 9, 2006 except for the occupancy rate which was as of January 31, 2006. Date Design Expiration Facility was Capacity of Operating Acquired by and Facility Underlying Agreement Facility and the Lease Type of Contracting Security Occupancy Opening Operating Renewal Location Company Expiration Facility Entity Level (1) Rate (2) Date Agreement (3) Options THE GEO GROUP FACILITIES: Aurora April 1998 April 2008 BICE BICE (4) Minimum/ 300/91 % May March — Processing Center, Detention Medium 1987 2006 or the Aurora Facility Facility, Aurora, CO McFarland Community April 1998 March 2016 (7) Pre-Release CDOCR (6) Minimum/ 224/93 % February June Two Correctional Medium 1988 2010 (7) Five-Year Facility, or the McFarland Center Facility, McFarland, CA Queens Private April 1998 April 2008 USMS USMS (5) Minimum/ 200/98 % March June One Correctional Detention Medium 1997 2006 (5) One-Year Facility, Facility or the Queens Facility, New York, NY Central Valley April 1998 April 2008 Adult CDOCR Minimum/ 550/98 % December December — Community Correctional Medium 1997 2007 Correctional Facility Facility, or the Central Valley Facility, McFarland, CA Golden State April 1998 April 2008 Adult CDOCR Minimum/ 550/97 % December December — Community Correctional Medium 1997 2007 Correctional Facility Facility, or the Golden State Facility, McFarland, CA Desert View April 1998 April 2008 Adult CDOCR Minimum/ 550/98 % December December — Community Correctional Medium 1997 2007 Correctional Facility Facility, or the Desert View Facility, Adelanto, CA Broward Transition April 1998 April 2008 BICE BICE (8) Non- 300/128% (8) February September Two Center, Detention Secured 1998 2006 One-Year or the Broward Facility County Facility, Broward County, FL Karnes County April 1998 April 2008 Adult Karnes Multi- 480/108 % January 2026 — Correctional Center, Correctional County Security 1996 or the Karnes Facility Facility, Karnes City, TX 9 Table of Contents Date Design Expiration Facility was Capacity of Operating Acquired by and Facility Underlying Agreement Facility and the Lease Type of Contracting Security Occupancy Opening Operating Renewal Location Company Expiration Facility Entity Level (1) Rate (2) Date Agreement (3) Options Lawton January 1999 January 2009 Adult ODOC(10) Medium 1,800/99 % December June Two Correctional (9 ) Correctional 1998 2006 One- Facility, Facility Year or the Lawton Facility, Lawton, OK Lea County October 1998 January 2009 Adult Lea Multi- 1,200/102 % May June Annual Correctional (11 ) Correctional County Security 1998 2006 Facility, Facility or the Hobbs Facility, Hobbs, NM Jena Juvenile January 2000 January 2010 Juvenile None Multi- 276/0% (12) June None (12) None Justice Center, Correctional Security 1999 or the Jena Facility Facility, Jena, LA FACILITY LEASED TO CEC: Delaney Hall May 2003 May 2013 Adult (13 ) Minimum 726/99 % March (13 ) (13 ) or the Delaney Correctional 2000 Hall Facility, Facility Newark, NJ FACILITY LEASED TO CORNELL COMPANIES, INC.: Mesa Verde January 2006 July 2015 Adult CDOCR Minimum 400/(14 ) 1988 June Two Correctional (14 ) Correctional 2010 Five-Year Facility Facility or the Mesa Verde Facility, Bakersfield, CA Total Facilities 13 7,556/94 % (1) Each facility is identified according to the level of security maintained as follows: non-secured facilities are facilities which are access controlled residential facilities; minimum security facilities are facilities having open-housing within an appropriate designated and patrolled institutional perimeter; medium security facilities are facilities having either cells, rooms or dormitories, a secure perimeter, and some form of external patrol; maximum security facilities are facilities having single occupancy cells, a secure perimeter and external patrol or devices; and multi-security facilities are facilities with various components of the previously described security levels. (2) Design capacity measures the number of beds, and, accordingly, the number of inmates each facility is designed to accommodate. Occupancy rate measures the percentage of the number of beds which a facility is designed to accommodate which are occupied at any given time or for which payment has been guaranteed by the contracting governmental entity. The facility operating agreement with respect to any facility may provide for occupancy less than the facility design capacity. While the design capacity of each of the Central Valley Community Correctional Facility, the Golden State Community Correctional Facility and the Desert View Community Correctional Facility is 550, the facility operating agreement for each such facility provides for the use and occupancy of only 500 beds per facility. The occupancy rates presented are as of January 31, 2006. We believe design capacity and occupancy rate are appropriate measures for evaluating prison operations because the revenues generated by each facility are generally based on a per diem or monthly rate per inmate housed at the facility paid by the corresponding contracting government entities. The ability of GEO, CEC, CRN or another private prison operator to satisfy its financial obligations under its leases with us is based in part on the revenues generated by their operation of these facilities, which in turn depends on the design capacity and occupancy rate of each facility. 10 Table of Contents (3) We are not a party to the underlying operating agreement on each facility. The GEO Group, CEC and CRN or their affiliates are the parties to the operating agreements with the contracting government entities on GEO, CEC and CRN facilities, respectively. The expiration or termination of any operating agreement between a governmental entity and GEO, CEC or CRN does not terminate or cause the expiration of the lease agreement. (4) The Homeland Security Act of 2002 moved the functions of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, or INS, to the Department of Homeland Security, or DHS. The Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or BICE, or ICE, is a division of the DHS. (5) On June 30, 2005, The GEO Group’s operating agreement with BICE on the Queens Facility was transferred to the Office of the Federal Detention Trustee (“OFDT”) effective June 30, 2005. GEO is managing and operating the Queens Facility on behalf of the United States Marshals Service (“USMS”) under a contract option period which began on July 1, 2005 and ends on June 30, 2006. (6) State of California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation. (7) The GEO Group entered into a new operating contract with the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, or the CDOCR, on the 224-bed McFarland Community Correctional Facility, or the McFarland Facility, for an initial term of five years beginning on January 1, 2006. The GEO Group’s previous contract with the CDOCR on the McFarland Facility had expired on December 31, 2005. As a result of the new operating contract, the original lease expiration date on the McFarland Facility of April 28, 2008, was extended to accommodate the term of the new operating contract. Per the terms of the original lease agreement, the annual cash rent on the McFarland Community Correctional Facility prior to amending the lease was $803,497 with an annual lease escalator at CPI, not to exceed 4 percent annually. Pursuant to the terms of the amended lease, effective January 1, 2006, the annual, cash-rent payments are fixed at $950,000 with no annual lease escalator. The amended lease expiration date is March 31, 2016. However, GEO has a one-time right to terminate the lease agreement effective 90 days following the expiration of the initial term of the new operating contract, at no cost, if the CDOCR elects not to exercise its option to extend the new operating contract beyond the expiration date of the initial term. (8) BICE has executed an operating agreement with The GEO Group under which BICE will utilize 200 beds in the Broward Facility, with an option to expand by an additional 50 beds at the request of BICE. The agreement has two remaining one-year renewal options. The operating agreement between the Broward County Sheriff’s Office, or the BSO, and The GEO Group, was terminated in January 2006. (9) We are currently in the process of funding the construction of a 600-bed expansion onto the facility. Upon the completion of the new 600-bed expansion, which is currently expected to be in the second half of 2006 but no later than the outside date of December 4, 2006 as per the terms of the amended lease, it will be leased to GEO at an initial annual rate of 9.5 percent of our total costs, and a new lease term of 10 years will commence on the entire facility. Under the amended lease, rent escalates on an annual basis by an amount equal to increases, if any, in the CPI, subject to a maximum increase of 4.0% per annum. (10) State of Oklahoma Department of Corrections. (11) In October 1998, we acquired the 600-bed Hobbs Facility. Subsequently, we acquired the 600-bed expansion of the Hobbs Facility in January 1999, and an industries building in July 1999. (12) The Jena Facility was operated by The GEO Group under an operating agreement with the State of Louisiana, which was terminated in July 2000. The GEO Group does not presently have an operating contract with a client for the Jena Facility, and as a result, the facility has been vacant since the termination of the operating agreement in July 2000. GEO had recently allowed the State of Louisiana to use the Jena Facility on a temporary emergency basis to house approximately 500 inmates as a result of the emergency situation created by Hurricane Katrina. However, the State of Louisiana is no longer utilizing the facility, and the Jena Facility is currently vacant. The GEO Group is obligated under the terms of the lease to continue to make rental payments to us regardless of the occupancy status of the Jena Facility. (13) CEC operates Delaney Hall under three separate operating agreements with: (1) the New Jersey Department of Corrections, which expires on June 30, 2006; (2) Union County, New Jersey, which expires on December 31, 2006; and (3) Essex County, New Jersey, which expires on September 30, 2006. 11 Table of Contents (14) CRN has begun accepting inmates and operating the Mesa Verde Facility on behalf of the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation housing adult, male inmates. CRN has the one-time right to terminate the lease effective July 31, 2010, without cost, if California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation elects not to renew the current operating contract beyond the initial period. Adult Correctional Facilities. Adult correctional facilities are used to house adult inmates on a permanent basis for the duration of their sentences. The adult correctional facilities acquired by us include the Karnes Facility, the Central Valley Facility, the Golden State Facility, the Desert View Facility, the Hobbs Facility and the Lawton Facility. The Karnes Facility is a multi-security correctional facility located in Karnes City, Texas with a design capacity of 480 beds. The facility is situated on approximately 12 acres and contains approximately 77,000 square feet. The GEO Group owns an adjacent parcel of unimproved land containing approximately 30 acres acquired at a total cost of $60,000. The GEO Group began operating this facility in January 1998 under an interim operating agreement with Karnes County and has subsequently negotiated a long-term operating agreement with Karnes County that expires in 2026. The Central Valley Facility and the Golden State Facility are minimum/medium security facilities located on adjacent properties in McFarland, California. The Central Valley Facility is situated on approximately 19 acres, and the Golden State Facility is situated on approximately 33 acres. Each facility contains an approximately 95,901 square foot structure with a design capacity of 550 beds. Construction of each of the Central Valley Facility and Golden State Facility was completed in December 1997. The GEO Group has contracted with the CDOCR to operate each of these facilities, which contracts expire in December 2007. The Desert View Facility is located in Adelanto, California and is a minimum/medium security facility. The facility is situated on approximately 16 acres and contains approximately 95,901 square feet with a design capacity of 550 beds. Construction of the facility was completed in December 1997. The GEO Group has contracted with the CDOCR to operate this facility, which contract expires in December 2007. The Hobbs Facility is located in Hobbs, New Mexico and is a multi-security facility located on approximately 80 acres and contains approximately 360,000 square feet with a design capacity of 1200 beds. Construction was completed in May 1998. The GEO Group has contracted with Lea County to operate the facility, which contract expires in June 2006. The 1200-bed Hobbs Facility was acquired by us in three parts. The first 600 beds were acquired in October 1998, while the remaining 600 beds, referred to in this report as the Hobbs Expansion, were acquired in January 1999. In July 1999, we acquired an industries building at the Hobbs Facility. The Lawton Facility is located in Lawton, Oklahoma and is used as a medium security facility. The facility is situated on 160 acres. The approximately 421,000 square foot structure contains a design capacity for 1,800 beds. Construction was completed in December 1998. We are currently in the process of expanding the facility by 600-beds (See Recent Events and 2005 Overview). Oklahoma state law requires that the operating agreement contain a provision granting the Oklahoma Department of Corrections the option at the beginning of the State of Oklahoma’s fiscal year to purchase the facility at a predetermined price, which must be negotiated and included in a schedule or formula to be contained in the operating agreement. During the term of the operating contract, the State of Oklahoma has an option at the beginning of each fiscal year to purchase the facility by giving us as the owner at least one hundred and twenty days written notice of its intention to do so. The purchase price will be the fair market value as determined by an independent appraisal process. After the option to purchase is exercised and the notice is given, each party shall select a professional licensed M.A.I. appraiser who will then select a third professional licensed appraiser to exercise their sole judgment. The appraisers shall use the cost approach in determining fair market value of the facility. The State of Oklahoma may revoke its option to purchase if the purchase price is not acceptable or in the event, the funds are not made available through appropriations, or other state methods of financing the purchase. The cost of such appraisal shall be shared equally by the parties. The GEO Group’s contract with the Oklahoma Department of Corrections expires in June 2006, and includes two one-year renewal options at the option of the Oklahoma Department of Corrections. Pre-Release Center. A pre-release center is a minimum to medium security facility for inmates nearing parole, offering inmates basic education and pre-employment training as well as alcohol and drug abuse treatment and counseling. The pre-release centers acquired by us are the McFarland Facility, the Delaney Hall Facility and the Mesa Verde Facility. 12 Table of Contents The McFarland Facility is located in McFarland, California. The facility is situated on approximately five acres, and contains approximately 35,000 square feet. The facility currently has a design capacity of 224 beds. The GEO Group has contracted with the CDOCR to operate this facility until June 2010. The Delaney Hall Facility is a 726 bed, minimum-security, correctional facility located in Newark, New Jersey. The facility is situated on approximately five acres, and contains approximately 80,000 square feet. CEC operates the Delaney Hall Facility under three separate operating agreements with: (1) the New Jersey Department of Corrections, which expires on June 30, 2006; (2) Union County, New Jersey, which expired on December 31, 2006; and (3) Essex County, New Jersey, which expires on September 30, 2006. The Mesa Verde Facility is located in Bakersfield, California. The facility is situated on approximately five acres, and contains approximately 53,000 square feet. The facility currently has a design capacity of 400 beds. CRN has contracted with the CDOCR to operate this facility until June 2010. Detention Facilities. Detention facilities are used to house undocumented aliens for the BICE or to house those held by the USMS for trial and are classified as minimum to medium security facilities. The detention facilities acquired by us include the Aurora Facility, the Queens Facility, and the Broward Facility. The Queens Facility is located on approximately 1.34 acres in New York, New York. The facility has a design capacity of 200 beds and contains approximately 61,400 square feet. The GEO Group began operating the facility in June 1997. On June 30, 2005, The GEO Group’s operating agreement with BICE on the Queens Facility was transferred to OFDT effective June 30, 2005. GEO is managing and operating the Queens Facility on behalf of the USMS under a contract option period which began on July 1, 2005 and ends on June 30, 2006. The Aurora Facility is located on approximately 46 acres in Aurora, Colorado. Originally designed to accommodate 150 beds, the facility was expanded in 1992 to contain a design capacity of 300 beds. The approximately 66,000 square foot medium security facility is operated under a management agreement entered into between the BICE and The GEO Group which expires in March 2006. The Broward Facility is located on approximately ten acres in Pompano Beach, Florida. The facility has a design capacity of 450 beds and contains approximately 86,500 square feet. The GEO Group is currently operating the facility under a contract with the BICE for 200 beds, with an option to expand by an additional 50 beds at the request of BICE. The contract expires in September 2006, and includes two one-year renewal options at the option of the BICE. Juvenile Correctional Facilities. Juvenile correctional facilities are intended to house juvenile offenders under standards which differ from those used to house adult offenders. On January 7, 2000, we exercised our option to purchase the Jena Facility for approximately $15,300,000. The Jena Facility is located in Jena, Louisiana and was used to house juvenile inmates. The facility is situated on approximately 100 acres, consists of an approximately 62,400 square foot structure and has a capacity for 276 beds. At the same time as we acquired the Jena Facility, we entered into a lease with The GEO Group for the facility at an initial cap rate of 11% with 4% annual escalators for an initial term of ten years, with three additional renewal options for terms of five years each in length. The lease provides for fixed rental payments to us without regard to occupancy. The Jena Facility was operated by The GEO Group under an operating agreement with the State of Louisiana, which has been terminated. The GEO Group does not presently have an operating contract with a client for the Jena Facility, and as a result, the facility is currently vacant. However, The GEO Group is obligated under the terms of the lease to continue to make rental payments to us. With the exception of the Hobbs Facility and the Lawton Facility, the carrying value of each of our facilities is less than 10% of our total assets as of December 31, 2005. For federal income tax purposes, our tax basis in each facility is generally the purchase price paid by us. The real property associated with these properties (other than land) generally will be depreciated for federal income tax purposes over 40 years using the straight-line method, which equates to a rate of 2.5%. Other assets associated with the facilities may be depreciated by us using applicable useful lives. 13 Table of Contents Leases and Subleases with The GEO Group Simultaneous with our acquisition of The GEO Group facilities, we leased these facilities either directly to The GEO Group or to WCCRE LLC, which in turn subleases these facilities to The GEO Group. The sublease structure is used in those instances where The GEO Group is required by a contracting governmental entity to afford the governmental entity the right to assume a lease of that facility (or designate another facility operator to assume the lease of that facility) at a fixed rental rate in the event of the early termination of the operating agreement upon the occurrence of specified events. Generally, in those instances where a sublease is created for the contracting governmental entity (or its designated replacement operator) to assume, the term of the sublease is commensurate with the term of the operating agreement originally entered into between The GEO Group and the governmental entity. This affords the governmental entity the ability to plan and effectuate an orderly relocation of its inmates to another facility in the event of early termination of its operating agreement with The GEO Group. However, regardless of whether the sublease structure is created for an individual facility, The GEO Group, at all times, remains primarily liable to us under the leases. Leases Each of the facilities that are leased to The GEO Group or WCCRE LLC is the subject of a separate lease that incorporates the provisions of a master lease between us and The GEO Group. The lease of each of these facilities includes the land, the buildings and structures and other improvements thereon, easements, rights and similar appurtenances to such land and improvements, and permanently affixed equipment, machinery, and other specified fixtures relating to the operation of the facility. The lease of each of these facilities provides for an initial term of 10 years and may be extended by The GEO Group for three additional five-year terms beyond this fixed term at a fair market rental rate as mutually agreed upon by us and The GEO Group or as determined by binding arbitration if the parties cannot reach such an agreement. In addition, an individual lease will be automatically extended on the same terms (including the then applicable base rent and base rent escalation) as reflected in the applicable lease if there is at that time an unexpired sublease with respect to the facility. The fixed term and extended terms under each lease are subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of specified contingencies described in the lease. In the case of any future facility acquired by us from The GEO Group, the initial annual rental rate will be the fair market rental rate as mutually agreed upon by us and The GEO Group or as determined by binding arbitration if the parties cannot reach such an agreement. Use of the Facilities. Each lease on the facilities permits The GEO Group to operate the leased property solely as a correctional or detention facility, unless otherwise mutually agreed upon by us and The GEO Group. Each lease held by The GEO Group is a “triple-net lease” or “absolute net lease” meaning The GEO Group is required to pay base rent plus any additional charges related to the leased property, including all taxes, government charges, and all charges for utilities and services. Maintenance, Modification and Capital Additions. Under each of its leases with us, The GEO Group is required, at its sole cost and expense, to maintain each leased property in good order, repair and appearance. We are not required to build or rebuild any improvements to any property leased to The GEO Group, or to make any repairs, replacements, alterations, restorations or renewals to any leased property. The GEO Group, at its sole cost and expense, may make alterations, additions, changes and/or improvements to each leased property. Improvements which have a cost of more than $500,000 or which, when aggregated with the cost of all such improvements for any individual leased property in the same lease year, would cause the total cost of all such improvements to exceed $1,000,000, must receive our prior written consent and must not impair the value and primary intended use of the leased property. The $500,000 and $1,000,000 threshold amounts are increased 4% per year, cumulatively. Upon the expiration or earlier termination of the lease, we have an option to purchase at appraised market value all machinery, equipment, furniture, furnishings, and other personal property, which has been installed at the expense of The GEO Group on any leased property. This option may be subject to a contracting governmental entity’s superior right to acquire all or a portion of this removable personal property under the terms of its operating contract with The GEO Group. Each lease held by The GEO Group provides that, at the request of The GEO Group, we may construct capital additions, or improvements to a particular leased property, which are not normal or recurring to the maintenance of the leased property. A capital addition to a leased property may necessitate changes in the premises, rent, or other similar terms of the lease which would be reflected in an amendment to the lease or a new lease agreement. In specified situations, a capital addition may be 14 Table of Contents made directly by The GEO Group and financed by third parties with our prior written consent. We have an option to acquire and lease back to The GEO Group any capital additions that we have not undertaken or financed for a period of one year following the date The GEO Group first receives inmates or detainees in that capital addition. The purchase price of the capital addition is required to be 105% (or a lower percentage if agreed to by The GEO Group) of the cost of the capital addition. Fair market rental rates for any capital addition acquired or undertaken by us are mutually agreed upon by us and The GEO Group or by binding arbitration if the parties cannot reach such an agreement. Insurance. Each lease with The GEO Group provides that The GEO Group is required to maintain insurance on each leased property under The GEO Group’s insurance policies providing for the following coverages: (i) fire, vandalism, earthquake and malicious mischief, extended coverage perils, and all physical loss perils, (ii) comprehensive general public liability (including personal injury and property damage), (iii) loss of rental value or business interruption and (iv) workers’ compensation. Right of First Refusal. The GEO Group has a 30-day right of first refusal on the proposed sale by us of any of the facilities we lease to them. Environmental Matters. Each lease with The GEO Group provides that The GEO Group makes various representations and warranties relating to environmental matters with respect to each leased property. Each lease also requires The GEO Group to indemnify and hold harmless us and any holder of a mortgage, deed of trust or other security agreement on a leased property from and against all environmental liabilities, costs and expenses except those liabilities, costs and expenses that result from our gross negligence or intentional misconduct. Indemnification Generally. Under each GEO Facility lease, except in circumstances involving the Company’s gross negligence or intentional misconduct, The GEO Group indemnifies, and is obligated to hold the Company harmless from and against any and all demands, claims, causes of action, fines, penalties, damages (including consequential damages), losses, liabilities (including strict liability), judgments, and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs, and related expenses) incurred in connection with or arising from: (i) the use, condition, operation or occupancy of each leased property; (ii) any activity, work, or thing done, or permitted or suffered by The GEO Group in or about the leased property; (iii) any acts, omissions, or negligence of The GEO Group or any person claiming under The GEO Group, or the contractors, agents, employees, invitees, or visitors of The GEO Group or any such person; (iv) any claim of any person incarcerated, held or detained in the leased property, including claims alleging breach or violation of such person’s civil or legal rights; (v) any breach, violation, or nonperformance by The GEO Group or the employees, agents, contractors, invitees, or visitors of The GEO Group, of any term, covenant, or provision of any lease or any law, ordinance, or governmental requirement of any kind; (vi) any injury or damage to the person, property or business of The GEO Group, its employees, agents, contractors, invitees, visitors, or any other person entering upon the leased property under the express or implied invitation of The GEO Group; (vii) any accident, injury to or death of persons or loss of damage to any item of property occurring at the leased property. Events of Default. In the event of any event of default referable to a specific lease, we may evict The GEO Group from the respective leased property and either terminate the lease or re-let the leased property. However, we will have specified duties to mitigate our losses in the exercise of these remedies. In either event, The GEO Group shall remain responsible for the rent provided in the lease for this leased property for the remaining period of the term in excess of rents received by us from any successor occupant. Alternatively, at our option, we will be entitled to recover all unpaid rent then due plus the present value of the rent for the unexpired term at the time of the award. This will be subject to our obligation to deliver and pay to The GEO Group any net rentals or proceeds actually received from the lease, sale or other disposition of the leased property thereafter, up to the amount paid by The GEO Group. In addition, we may exercise any other rights that we may have under law. In the event we evict The GEO Group from a leased property, the master lease will, at the Company’s option, remain in full force and effect for all other leased properties. With respect to The GEO Group’s failure to timely pay rent and with respect to specified nonmonetary events of default under the master lease, we shall have all of the foregoing rights, remedies and obligations with respect to all of the leased facilities. Because the facilities are located in various states, the leases may be subject to restrictions imposed by applicable local law. Neither the master lease nor any of the other agreements entered into by The GEO Group in connection with the formation transactions prohibits or otherwise restricts our ability to lease properties to parties (domestic or foreign) other than The GEO Group. 15 Table of Contents Because our leases with our tenants on our facilities are triple-net leases, which impose significant burdens upon the tenant and provide for an escalating annual base rent, the leases do not satisfy the requirements of certain government entities or allow The GEO Group the flexibility to tailor the lease provisions to the terms of a particular Request for Proposals, or RFP. In these instances, The GEO Group requests that we enter into a lease with WCCRE LLC., which in turn enters into a more basic fixed rental rate sublease with The GEO Group, which sublease meets the requirements of the contracting governmental entity, and permits the contracting governmental entity to assume such sublease in the event of early termination of the operating agreement for the relevant facility. The provisions of all subleases are subject to our review and approval. We have leased the following facilities to WCCRE LLC, each of which in turn is subleased to The GEO Group: the Broward Facility, the Central Valley Facility, the Golden State Facility and the Desert View Facility. We have leased the following facilities directly to The GEO Group: the Queens Facility, the Aurora Facility, the Hobbs Facility, the Lawton Facility, the Jena Facility, the McFarland Facility and the Karnes Facility. Assignment and Subletting. The leases with The GEO Group provide that generally The GEO Group may not, without our prior written consent, assign, sublease, mortgage, pledge, hypothecate, encumber or otherwise transfer (except to an affiliate of The GEO Group) any lease or any interest in the lease, or all or any part of the leased property. The leases further provide that except with respect to governmental subleases meeting specified requirements our consent may be granted or withheld in our sole discretion. Any change of control of The GEO Group will be treated as an assignment of a lease for these purposes. The leases further provide that no assignment or sublease will in any way impair the continuing primary liability of The GEO Group under the leases. In addition, if requested by The GEO Group in order to respond to a RFP for an operating agreement, we may agree to provide nondisturbance agreements in favor of government entities under the terms of which we will agree to recognize and leave the rights of any governmental sub-tenant undisturbed in the event of a termination of the lease, but only upon our determination that the provisions of any of these governmental subleases are acceptable in our sole and absolute discretion. Subleases The rental payments and other material terms of the existing subleases differ from comparable provisions of the leases, and there is no requirement that the governmental entity or its designee comply with the provisions of the leases. In these cases, The GEO Group will, nevertheless, remain primarily liable to us under the leases. In connection with the conveyance of the facilities under the terms of the leases, we will agree to recognize and leave undisturbed the subleasing rights of the government entities. These subleases are presently in effect with respect to the Central Valley Facility, the Desert View Facility, and the Golden State Facility. The GEO Group has agreed that the term of the individual leases between The GEO Group and us for these facilities will be automatically extended, if necessary, in order to insure that the lease between us and The GEO Group will be commensurate with the term of any such subleases. Some of the material differences between the terms and provisions of the existing subleases and the leases are discussed below. The California Facilities Subleases. WCCRE LLC has entered into a series of subleases with The GEO Group for the use of the California facilities. In connection with our initial public offering, we entered into a series of leases with WCCRE LLC under the terms of which we will recognize and agree to leave undisturbed the California subleases. Except for the base rent, the terms and provisions of each of the California subleases are identical. With the exception of the sublease of the McFarland Facility which expired in January 1999, the term of each of the California subleases is 120 months expiring December 16, 2007 and is coterminous with a ten year facility operating agreement entered into between The GEO Group and the State of California for each of these facilities. Each of the California subleases provides for specified “termination rights” in favor of the State of California under which the State of California has the option, in the event of early termination of the operating agreement between the State of California and The GEO Group, to cause The GEO Group’s interest under each of the California subleases to be assigned to the State of California or to a replacement operator approved by the State. The California Subleases may not be modified without the prior written approval of the State of California. While the California Subleases are triple-net leases, the provisions of these subleases are generally not as favorable to the lessor as the comparable provisions of the relevant leases. If The GEO Group defaults on its obligations under the leases, we will be required to permit the contracting government entity to occupy the California facilities under the provisions of the sublease. The annual base rent under the sublease is not subject to adjustment for cost of living increases or any other reason. As a result, the annual rent payable under the California subleases may, during some portion of the term of the applicable master leases, fall below the annual rent payable under such leases. The GEO Group will nevertheless remain obligated to us for performance under these leases for the entire term of the California subleases. 16 Table of Contents Lease with Community Education Centers, Inc. Leases The Delaney Hall Facility leased to CEC is the subject of a separate lease that incorporates the provisions of a master lease between us and CEC. The lease of the facility includes the land, the buildings and structures and other improvements thereon, easements, rights and similar appurtenances to the land and improvements, and permanently affixed equipment, machinery, and other specified fixtures relating to the operation of the facility. The lease is for an initial term of 10 years and may be extended by CEC for three additional five-year terms beyond this fixed term at a fair market rental rate as mutually agreed upon by us and CEC or as determined by binding arbitration if the parties cannot reach an agreement. The fixed term and extended terms under each lease are subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of specified contingencies described in the lease. Use of the Facilities. The Delaney Hall lease permits CEC to operate the property solely as a correctional or detention facility, unless otherwise mutually agreed upon by us and CEC. The Delaney Hall lease is a “triple-net lease” or “absolute net lease” meaning CEC is required to pay base rent plus any additional charges related to the property, including all taxes, government charges, and all charges for utilities and services. Maintenance, Modification and Capital Additions. The Delaney Hall lease requires CEC, at its sole cost and expense, to maintain the Delaney Hall facility in good order, repair and appearance. We are not required to build or rebuild any improvements to Delaney Hall, or to make any repairs, replacements, alterations, restorations or renewals to the property. CEC, at its sole cost and expense, may make alterations, additions, changes and/or improvements to the Delaney Hall Facility. Improvements which have a cost of more than $25,000 or which, when aggregated with the cost of all such improvements for any individual leased property in the same lease year, would cause the total cost of all such improvements to exceed $50,000, must receive our prior written consent and must not impair the value and primary intended use of the leased property. The $25,000 and $50,000 threshold amounts are increased 3% per year, cumulatively. Upon the expiration or earlier termination of the lease, we have an option to purchase at appraised market value all machinery, equipment, furniture, furnishings, and other personal property, which has been installed at the expense of CEC on any leased property. This option may be subject to a contracting governmental entity’s superior right to acquire all or a portion of this removable personal property under the terms of its operating contract with CEC. The Delaney Hall lease held by CEC provides that, at the request of CEC, we may but shall be under no obligation to finance and construct capital additions, or improvements, which are not normal or recurring to the maintenance of the property. A capital addition to the property may necessitate changes in the premises, rent, or other similar terms of the lease, which would be reflected in an amendment to the lease or a new lease agreement. In specified situations, a capital addition may be made directly by CEC and financed by third parties with our prior written consent. We have an option to acquire and lease back to CEC any capital additions that we have not undertaken or financed at any time during the lease term. The purchase price of the capital addition is required to be 105% (or a lower percentage if agreed to by CEC) of the cost of the capital addition. Fair market rental rates for any capital addition acquired or undertaken by us are mutually agreed upon by us and CEC, or established by binding arbitration if the parties cannot reach such an agreement. Insurance. The Delaney Hall lease with CEC provides that CEC is required to maintain insurance on the property under CEC’s insurance policies providing for the following coverages: (i) fire, vandalism, earthquake and malicious mischief, extended coverage perils, and all physical loss perils, (ii) comprehensive general public liability (including personal injury and property damage), (iii) loss of rental value or business interruption and (iv) workers’ compensation. Right of First Refusal. CEC has a 30-day right of first refusal on the proposed sale by us of Delaney Hall. Environmental Matters. The Delaney Hall lease with CEC provides that CEC makes various representations and warranties relating to environmental matters with respect to the property. The lease also requires CEC to indemnify and hold us harmless on the property from and against all environmental liabilities, costs and expenses except those liabilities, costs and expenses that result from our gross negligence or intentional misconduct. 17 Table of Contents Assignment and Subletting. The lease with CEC provides that generally CEC may not, without our prior written consent, assign, sublease, mortgage, pledge, hypothecate, encumber or otherwise transfer any lease or any interest in the lease, or all or any part of the leased property. The lease further provides that except with respect to governmental subleases meeting specified requirements our consent may be granted or withheld in our sole discretion. Any change of control of CEC will be treated as an assignment of a lease for these purposes. The leases further provide that no assignment or sublease will in any way impair the continuing primary liability of CEC under the leases. In addition, if requested by CEC in order to respond to a RFP for an operating agreement, we may agree to provide nondisturbance agreements in favor of government entities under the terms of which we will agree to recognize and leave the rights of any governmental sub-tenant undisturbed in the event of a termination of the lease, but only upon our determination that the provisions of any of these governmental subleases are acceptable in our sole and absolute discretion. Indemnification Generally. Under the Delaney Hall lease, except in circumstances involving the Company’s gross negligence or intentional misconduct, CEC indemnifies, and is obligated to hold the Company harmless from and against any and all demands, claims, causes of action, fines, penalties, damages (including, but not limited to, incidental and consequential damages), losses, liabilities (including, but not limited to, strict liability), judgments, and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses, court costs, and related expenses) incurred in connection with or arising from: (i) the use, condition, operation or occupancy of the property; (ii) any activity, work, or thing done, or permitted or suffered by or though CEC in or about the leased property; (iii) any acts, omissions, or negligence of CEC or any person claiming under CEC, or the contractors, agents, employees, invitees, or visitors of CEC or any such person; (iv) any claim of any person incarcerated, held or detained in the property, including claims alleging breach or violation of such person’s civil or legal rights; (v) any breach, violation, or nonperformance by CEC or the employees, agents, contractors, invitees, or visitors of CEC, of any term, covenant, or provision of any lease or any law, ordinance, or governmental requirement of any kind; (vi) any injury or damage to the person, property or business of CEC, its employees, agents, contractors, invitees, visitors, or any other person entering upon the leased property under the express or implied invitation of CEC; or (vii) any accident, injury to or death of persons or loss of damage to any item of property occurring at the leased property. Events of Default. In the event of any event of default with respect to a specific lease, we may evict CEC from the respective leased property and either terminate the lease or re-let the leased property. However, we will have specified duties to mitigate our losses in the exercise of these remedies. In either event, CEC will remain responsible for the rent provided in the lease for this leased property for the remaining period of the term in excess of rents received by us from any successor occupant. Alternatively, at our option, we will be entitled to recover all unpaid rent then due plus the present value of the rent for the unexpired term at the time of the award. This will be subject to our obligation to deliver and pay to CEC any net rentals or proceeds actually received from the lease, sale or other disposition of the leased property thereafter, up to the amount paid by CEC. In addition, we may exercise any other rights that we may have under law. In the event we evict CEC from a leased property, the master lease will, at the Company’s option, remain in full force and effect for all other leased properties. With respect to CEC’s failure to timely pay rent and with respect to specified nonmonetary events of default under the master lease, we shall have all of the foregoing rights, remedies and obligations with respect to all of the leased facilities. Lease with Cornell Companies, Inc. Leases The Mesa Verde Facility leased to CRN is the subject of a separate lease that incorporates the provisions of a master lease between us and CRN. The lease of the facility includes the land, the buildings and structures and other improvements thereon, easements, rights and similar appurtenances to such land and improvements, and permanently affixed equipment, machinery, and other specified fixtures relating to the operation of the facility. The lease is for an initial term of approximately 9.6 years and may be extended by CRN for three additional five-year terms beyond this fixed term at a fair market rental rate as mutually agreed upon by us and CRN or as determined by binding arbitration if the parties cannot reach an agreement. CRN has the one-time right to terminate the lease effective July 31, 2010, without cost, if California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation elects not to renew the current operating contract beyond the initial period. The fixed term and extended terms under each lease are subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of specified contingencies described in the lease. Use of the Facilities. The Mesa Verde Facility lease permits CRN to operate the property solely as a correctional or detention facility, unless otherwise mutually agreed upon by us and CRN. The Mesa Verde Facility lease is a “triple-net lease” or 18 Table of Contents “absolute net lease” meaning CRN is required to pay base rent plus any additional charges related to the property, including all taxes, government charges, and all charges for utilities and services. Maintenance, Modification and Capital Additions. The Mesa Verde Facility lease requires CRN, at its sole cost and expense, to maintain the Mesa Verde Facility in good order, repair and appearance. We are not required to build or rebuild any improvements to Mesa Verde Facility, or to make any repairs, replacements, alterations, restorations or renewals to the property. CRN, at its sole cost and expense, may make alterations, additions, changes and/or improvements to the Mesa Verde Facility. Improvements which have a cost of more than $250,000 or which, when aggregated with the cost of all such improvements for any individual leased property in the same lease year, would cause the total cost of all such improvements to exceed $500,000, must receive our prior written consent and must not impair the value and primary intended use of the leased property. The $250,000 and $500,000 threshold amounts are increased 3% per year, cumulatively. The Mesa Verde Facility lease held by CRN provides that, at the request of CRN, we may but shall be under no obligation to finance and construct capital additions, or improvements, which are not normal or recurring to the maintenance of the property. A capital addition to the property may necessitate changes in the premises, rent, or other similar terms of the lease, which would be reflected in an amendment to the lease or a new lease agreement. In specified situations, a capital addition may be made directly by CRN and financed by third parties with our prior written consent. We have an option to acquire and lease back to CRN any capital additions that we have not undertaken or financed at any time during the lease term. The purchase price of the capital addition is required to be 105% (or a lower percentage if agreed to by CRN) of the cost of the capital addition. Fair market rental rates for any capital addition acquired or undertaken by us are mutually agreed upon by us and CRN, or established by binding arbitration if the parties cannot reach an agreement. Insurance. The Mesa Verde Facility lease with CRN provides that CRN is required to maintain insurance on the property under CRN’s insurance policies providing for the following coverages: (i) fire, vandalism, earthquake and malicious mischief, extended coverage perils, and all physical loss perils, (ii) comprehensive general public liability (including personal injury and property damage), (iii) loss of rental value and (iv) workers’ compensation. Right of First Refusal. CRN has a 30-day right of first refusal on the proposed sale by us of the Mesa Verde Facility. Environmental Matters. The Mesa Verde Facility lease with CRN provides that CRN makes various representations and warranties relating to environmental matters with respect to the property. The lease also requires CRN to indemnify and hold us harmless on the property from and against all environmental liabilities, costs and expenses except those liabilities, costs and expenses that result from our gross negligence or intentional misconduct or were present prior to the date we acquired the property. Assignment and Subletting. The lease with CRN provides generally that CRN may not, without our prior written consent, assign, sublease, mortgage, pledge, hypothecate, encumber or otherwise transfer any lease or any interest in the lease, or all or any part of the leased property. The lease further provides that except with respect to governmental subleases meeting specified requirements, our consent may be granted or withheld in our sole discretion. Any change of control of CRN will be treated as an assignment of a lease for these purposes. The lease further provides that no assignment or sublease will in any way impair the continuing primary liability of CRN under the lease. In addition, if requested by CRN in order to respond to a request for proposal for an operating agreement, we may agree to provide nondisturbance agreements in favor of government entities under the terms of which we will agree to recognize and leave the rights of any governmental sub-tenant undisturbed in the event of a termination of the lease, but only upon our determination that the provisions of any of these governmental subleases are acceptable in our sole and absolute discretion. Indemnification Generally. Under the Mesa Verde Facility lease, except in circumstances involving the Company’s gross negligence or intentional misconduct, CRN indemnifies, and is obligated to hold the Company harmless from and against any and all demands, claims, causes of action, fines, penalties, damages (including, but not limited to, incidental and consequential damages), losses, liabilities (including, but not limited to, strict liability), judgments, and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses, court costs, and related expenses) incurred in connection with or arising from: (i) the use, condition, operation or occupancy of the property; (ii) any activity, work, or thing done, or permitted or suffered by or though CRN in or about the leased property; (iii) any acts, omissions, or negligence of CRN or any person claiming 19 Table of Contents under CRN, or the contractors, agents, employees, invitees, or visitors of CRN or any such person; (iv) any claim of any person incarcerated, held or detained in the property, including claims alleging breach or violation of such person’s civil or legal rights; (v) any breach, violation, or nonperformance by CRN or the employees, agents, contractors, invitees, or visitors of CRN, of any term, covenant, or provision of any lease or any law, ordinance, or governmental requirement of any kind; (vi) any injury or damage to the person, property or business of CRN, its employees, agents, contractors, invitees, visitors, or any other person entering upon the leased property under the express or implied invitation of CRN; or (vii) any accident, injury to or death of persons or loss of damage to any item of property occurring at the leased property. Events of Default. In the event of any event of default with respect to a specific lease, we may evict CRN from the respective leased property and either terminate the lease or re-let the leased property. However, we will have specified duties to mitigate our losses in the exercise of these remedies. In either event, CRN will remain responsible for the rent provided in the lease for this leased property for the remaining period of the term in excess of rents received by us from any successor occupant. Alternatively, at our option, we will be entitled to recover all unpaid rent then due plus the present value of the rent for the unexpired term at the time of the award. This will be subject to our obligation to deliver and pay to CRN any net rentals or proceeds actually received from the lease, sale or other disposition of the leased property thereafter, up to the amount paid by CRN. In addition, we may exercise any other rights that we may have under law. In the event we evict CRN from a leased property, the master lease will, at the Company’s option, remain in full force and effect for all other leased properties. With respect to CRN’s failure to timely pay rent and with respect to specified nonmonetary events of default under the master lease, we shall have all of the foregoing rights, remedies and obligations with respect to all of the leased facilities. Competition We have expanded our scope to include essential purpose government real estate projects outside the corrections sector, including mental health and higher education facilities. These projects are subject to a number of competitive factors, including regulatory expertise and the location and appearance of facilities. Our current facilities are, and any additional correctional and detention facilities acquired by us will be, subject to competition for inmates from private prison managers and possibly government entities. These include, but are not limited to Corrections Corporation of America; The GEO Group; CEC; Group 4 Falck Global Solutions Ltd; U.K. Detention Services, Ltd.; Cornell Companies, Inc.; Securicor PLC; Sodexho Alliance; Management and Training Corporation; Avalon Correctional Services, Inc.; GRW Inc; MinSec Corrections Corp.; and The Paladin Group. Some of these competitors are larger and have greater resources than we do. We also compete in some markets with small local companies that may have a better knowledge of the local conditions and may be better able to gain political and public acceptance. In addition, operating revenues of our correctional and detention facilities will be affected by a number of factors, including the demand for inmate beds and general economic conditions. We are subject to competition for the acquisition of correctional and detention facilities with other purchasers of correctional and detention facilities. Non-U.S. Operations All of our operations are within the United States. We do not have any international operations. Government Regulation Corrections Industry Regulations. The corrections industry is subject to federal, state and local regulations in the United States which are administered by a variety of regulatory authorities. Generally, prospective providers of corrections services must be able to detail their readiness to, and must comply with, a variety of applicable state and local regulations, including education, health care and safety regulations. Correctional and detention management contracts frequently include extensive reporting requirements and require supervision and on-site monitoring by representatives of contracting governmental agencies. State law also typically requires corrections officers to meet certain training standards. In addition, many state and local governments are required to enter into a competitive bidding procedure before awarding contracts for products or services. Environmental Matters. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances released on or in its property. Such laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, 20 Table of Contents the release of such hazardous substances. The presence of such substances, or the failure to remediate such substances properly when released, may adversely affect the owner’s ability to sell such real estate or to borrow funds if the borrower is using such real estate as collateral. Neither we nor any of our lessees or their affiliates has been notified by any government authority of any material environmental non-compliance, liability or other claim in connection with any of our facilities and neither we nor any of our lessees or their affiliates is aware of any other environmental condition with respect to any of these facilities that is likely to be material to us. Phase I environmental assessments have been obtained for all of the facilities. However, these investigations may not reveal all potential environmental liabilities, including that no prior or adjacent owner created any material environmental condition not known to us or that future uses or conditions (including, without limitation, changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations) will not result in imposition of environmental liability or limitation on use of properties. The leases provide that our lessees will indemnify us for certain potential environmental liabilities at the facilities leased to each of them. Americans With Disabilities Act. The facilities are subject to the ADA. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities” but generally requires that public facilities, such as correctional facilities, be made accessible to people with disabilities. These requirements became effective in 1992. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers and other capital improvements at the facilities. Noncompliance could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. An ADA compliance report is prepared prior to our acquisition of each facility. Tax Considerations and Tax Status We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, commencing with our taxable year ending December 31, 1998. If we qualify for taxation as a REIT, with specified exceptions, we will not be subject to federal income tax at the corporate level on our taxable income. A REIT is subject to a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement that it distribute at least 90% of its annual real estate investment trust taxable income. Although we believe we operate in a manner designed to qualify as a REIT, it is possible that future economic, market, legal or tax considerations may cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT or may cause our Board of Trustees to revoke the REIT election if our Board of Trustees and the holders of two-thirds of all our outstanding common shares determine that such factors make it no longer beneficial to qualify as a REIT. Policies and Objectives With Respect to Certain Activities The following is a discussion of our investment objectives and policies, financing policies and policies with respect to some other activities. These policies are determined by our Board of Trustees and may be amended or revised from time to time at the discretion of our Board of Trustees without a vote of our shareholders. Investment Policies. We focus our investments on the financing, acquisition or development of facilities directly from, or on behalf of, existing tenants and other private prison owners and operators or government entities in the United States. Additionally, we are pursing other opportunities in essential purpose government facilities unrelated to the correctional and detention industry, including mental health and higher education facilities. We may also invest in other facilities or excess land or make mortgage loans to facilitate our acquisitions of a facility. We apply the following general guidelines in evaluating potential investments in correctional and detention facilities: (i) completion of the construction of the facility, (ii) execution of a government contract for the operation of the facility, and (iii) documentation of adequate inmate demand or occupancy levels. Subject to the general investment guidelines referenced above, we consider a variety of specific factors in evaluating potential investments in correctional or detention facilities, including the following: • the essentiality of the facility to the governmental user; • the reputation and creditworthiness of the current owner, manager or developer of the facility; • the proposed terms for purchasing the facility; • the proposed terms for leasing the facility, including rental payments and lease term; 21 Table of Contents • the quality of construction of the facility; • the quality of operations at an existing facility or the quality of other operations of a prison manager for a new facility; • the relationship between the prison manager and the contracting government entity; and • the status of existing facilities as facilities accredited by the American Correctional Association, or the ACA. The ACA is a multi-disciplinary organization of professionals representing all levels and facets of the corrections and criminal justice industry, including federal, state and military correctional facilities in prisons, county jails and detention centers, probation and parole agencies, and community corrections/half-way houses. Comprised of 70 chapters and affiliated organizations, as well as individual members numbering more than 20,000, the ACA serves as the umbrella organization for all areas of corrections, and provides a broad base of expertise in this industry. We may develop, finance, purchase or lease properties for long-term investment, expand and improve the facilities presently owned or sell these properties, in whole or in part, when circumstances warrant. We may also participate with other entities in property ownership, through joint ventures or other types of co-ownership. Equity investments may be subject to existing mortgage financing and other indebtedness which have priority over our equity interest. While we emphasize equity real estate investments, we may, in our discretion, invest in mortgages, equity or debt securities of other REITs or partnerships and other real estate interests. Mortgage investments may include participating in convertible mortgages. There are no limitations on the percentage of our assets that may be invested in any one property, venture or type of security. Our Board of Trustees may establish limitations as it deems appropriate from time to time, including limitations necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT. No limitations have been set on the number of properties in which we will seek to invest or on the concentration of investments in any one geographic region. Disposition Policies; GEO’s, CEC’s and CRN’s Right of First Refusal. We have no current intention to dispose of any of the facilities, although we reserve the right to do so if our Board of Trustees determines that this action would be in our best interests. GEO, CEC and CRN have a right of first refusal with respect to any sale of facilities we currently lease to each of them. See “Item 1. Business — Leases” above for a more detailed discussion of the terms and conditions. Financing Policies. Our capital structure at December 31, 2005 consisted of 98% equity and 2% debt. We determine our financing policies in light of then current economic conditions, relative costs of debt and equity capital, market values of properties, growth and acquisition opportunities and other factors. Our amended bank credit facility may be used to finance the acquisition of additional correctional and detention facilities, the expansion of existing facilities and for working capital requirements. If our Board of Trustees determines that additional funding is desirable, we may raise these funds through additional equity offerings, debt financing or retention of cash flow (subject to provisions in the tax code concerning taxability of undistributed REIT income and REIT qualification), or a combination of these methods. Indebtedness incurred by us may be in the form of publicly or privately placed debt instruments or financings from banks, institutional investors or other lenders, any of which indebtedness may be unsecured or may be secured by mortgages or other interests in the facilities owned by us. There are no limits on the number or amounts of mortgages or other interests which may be placed on any one facility. In addition, such indebtedness may be with or without recourse to all or any part of our facilities or may be limited to the particular facility to which the indebtedness relates. The proceeds from any borrowings may be used for the payment of distributions and working capital or to refinance indebtedness or to finance acquisitions, expansions or developments of new facilities. In the event that our Board of Trustees determines to raise additional equity capital, our Board of Trustees has the authority, without shareholder approval, to issue additional common shares or preferred shares. Our Bylaws require the approval 22 Table of Contents of at least two-thirds of the members of our Board of Trustees for us to issue equity securities, other than common shares issued (a) for at least the fair market value thereof at the time of issuance as determined in good faith by a majority of our Board of Trustees, (b) pursuant to any of our share incentive or option plans, or (c) in a bona fide underwritten public offering managed by one or more nationally recognized investment banking firms. Existing shareholders have no preemptive right to purchase shares issued in any offering, and any such offering could cause a dilution of a shareholder’s investment in us. Working Capital Reserve Policies. We maintain working capital reserves (and when not sufficient, access to borrowings) in amounts that our Board of Trustees determines to be adequate to meet normal contingencies in connection with the operation of our business and the management of our investments. Conflicts of Interest Policies. We have adopted policies, including a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics designed to minimize potential conflicts of interest. However, these policies may not be successful in eliminating the influence of these conflicts. The Declaration of Trust requires that at least a majority of the members of our Board of Trustees be comprised of “Independent Trustees,” defined as individuals who qualify as trustees but who are neither an officer nor an employee of us or our affiliates, nor a director, trustee, officer or employee of, or other person who has a material financial interest in, any of (i) The Wackenhut Corporation or GEO, or (ii) any lessee or tenant of a facility owned by us or by our affiliates, or (iii) any owner, lessee or tenant of any facility financed by us or by our affiliates, other than any owner, lessee or tenant which is an affiliate of ours, or (iv) any management company operating any facility owned or financed by us or by our affiliates, or (v) an affiliate of any of the foregoing. The Declaration of Trust provides that these provisions relating to Independent Trustees may be amended with the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of our shares entitled to vote on such matters. In addition, the Bylaws provide that the selection of operators for our facilities and the entering into and consummation of any agreement or transactions with GEO or its affiliates, including, but not limited to, the negotiation, enforcement and renegotiation of the terms of any lease of any of our facilities with such parties, be approved by our Independent Committee which must consist solely of Independent Trustees. Other Policies. We operate in a manner that will not subject us to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. We do not (i) invest in the securities of other issuers for the purpose of exercising control over the issuer, (ii) underwrite securities of other issuers or (iii) trade actively in loans or other investments. Although we do not currently intend to do so, we may make investments other than as previously described, provided that such investments do not disqualify us from our REIT status. We may repurchase or otherwise reacquire common shares or any other securities we may issue and may engage in these activities in the future. Our Board of Trustees has no present intention of causing us to repurchase any of the common shares, and this action would be taken only in conformity with applicable federal and state laws and the requirements for qualifying as a REIT under the tax code and the applicable treasury regulations. Although we may do so in the future, we have not issued common shares or any other securities in exchange for property, nor have we reacquired (other than founder’s shares in 1998 which consisted of 1,000 common shares) any of our common shares or any other securities. We may make loans to third parties, including, without limitation, to joint ventures in which we decide to participate. These loans generally require the approval of our Board of Trustees, and loans to The GEO Group and its affiliates or to a joint venture in which The GEO Group participates require the approval of our Independent Committee. At all times, we intend to make investments in such a manner as to be consistent with the requirements of the tax code to qualify as a REIT, and our Board of Trustees shall endeavor to take no action which disqualifies us as a REIT or otherwise causes the revocation of our election to be taxed as a REIT without the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds of our shares entitled to vote on these matters. Website and Other Information Our Internet website address is www.CentraCorePropertiesTrust.com. We make available free of charge on or through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish these materials to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports may be found at http://www.CentraCorePropertiesTrust.com by selecting the option entitled “SEC FILINGS”. Additionally, charters for the Audit Committee, the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Corporate Governance Guidelines and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics policy are available on our website by selecting the option entitled “Corporate Governance”. A copy of any of these items may be obtained for no cost upon request from our Corporate Secretary. Our internet website and the information contained in it are not intended to be part of this Form 10-K. 23 Table of Contents Our chief executive officer submitted to the New York Stock Exchange in 2005 the required Annual CEO Certification, without qualification, as to our compliance with the New York Stock Exchange’s corporate governance listing standards. Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. These risks are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements on page 2. Risks Related to Our Business We rely on three lessees for 100% of our revenue As of December 31, 2005, The GEO Group, Inc. (or GEO) and Community Education Centers, Inc. (or CEC), were the only parties with whom we had lease agreements. In January 2006, we entered into a lease agreement with Cornell Companies, Inc. (or CRN). Accordingly, these three parties now account for 100% of our lease agreement revenue and the failure of any of them to meet their respective obligations to us may have a material adverse effect upon our operations. There is a limited number of qualified private correctional and detention facility operators available to replace our existing lessees upon expiration or early termination of a lease agreement. If we elect to terminate a lease upon our existing lessees’ failure to pay or because of another default under a lease agreement, the contracting government entity is under no obligation to enter into a facility management services or operating agreement with a proposed replacement lessee. Our ability to attract a replacement lessee therefore may be dependent on the willingness of the government entity to contract with the replacement lessee for correctional and detention facility services. Even if a replacement lessee is identified and willing to lease a facility, the rental rate under the replacement lease may not equal the rental rate payable to us under the lease agreement with our existing lessees. We rely on GEO, as the lessee of the majority of our facilities, for approximately 86% of our total revenue GEO is either the lessee or sublessee of 11 of the 13 facilities we currently own. Approximately 86% of our revenue, and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders, will depend largely upon GEO making rent payments and satisfying its obligations to us. Any failure or delay by GEO in making rent payments may adversely affect our earnings and our ability to make anticipated distributions. Seven of our leases with GEO expire during April 2008. To the extent these leases are not renewed by GEO or are renewed at unfavorable terms, our total revenue and ability to make distributions to our shareholders would be adversely affected. Failure by GEO to comply with the material terms of any lease agreement would give us the right to terminate that lease agreement and enforce the obligations of GEO thereunder, but could also require us to find another lessee for such facility or risk losing our ability to elect or maintain our REIT status. Similarly, we cannot assure you that GEO will elect to renew a lease agreement upon expiration of its initial or any subsequent term, which would also force us to find a suitable replacement lessee. In either circumstance, due to the limited number of qualified operators in the correctional and detention industry, we may be unable to locate a suitable lessee or to attract such a lessee, and may, therefore, be required to reduce the rent, which would have the effect of reducing our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Furthermore, depending on the economy and the financial condition of GEO, it could default on or elect to terminate one or more of its operating agreements, adversely affecting its ability to continue to make payments to us under the related lease agreements. We are subject to lease payment collection risks because our lease agreements are longer than facility management services or operating agreements held by our lessees The typical correctional and detention facility management services or operating agreements held by GEO, CEC and CRN generally contain one or more renewal options. Only the contracting governmental agency may exercise a renewal 24 Table of Contents option of a management services or operating agreement or enter into a new management services or operating agreement, and we cannot assure you that any agency will exercise a renewal option or enter into a new management services or operating agreement in the future. GEO does not presently have a correctional facility operating agreement with a government agency for the Jena Facility although it continues to make rental payments to us as required under the terms of the non-cancelable leases. The expiration of the underlying operating agreement for each facility is listed under the caption “Our Facilities.” Regardless of the terms of the operating agreements, GEO, CEC or CRN, depending on their respective financial condition, could default on or elect to terminate their operating agreements. GEO, CEC and CRN are obligated to continue to make payments under the lease agreements for a facility even if the facility management services or operating agreement for such facility is not renewed or is otherwise terminated. We cannot assure you that GEO, CEC or CRN will be able to secure an alternate contract or an alternate source of inmates under such circumstances. The non-renewal of a facility management services or operating agreement and the inability to secure an alternate agreement or source of inmates could materially and adversely affect GEO’s, CEC’s or CRN’s financial condition and their respective ability to make lease payments to us. A reduction in the pledge pool borrowing base would reduce our ability to borrow under our bank credit facility Our ability to borrow funds under our bank credit facility depends on the number of our facilities which may be included in the pledge pool borrowing base. If an operating agreement or management contract between a governmental agency and one of our facility lessees is terminated or expires, the facility may be excluded from the pledge pool borrowing base under the terms of our bank credit facility. If any such facility is taken out or excluded from the pledge pool borrowing base, our ability to comply with the restrictive covenants or draw additional amounts from the bank credit facility may be adversely impacted. We depend on the services of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Charles Jones, to operate our company and the loss of his services could have a material adverse effect on us We are dependent on the efforts of our trustees and executive officers. In particular, we utilize the industry knowledge, experience and contacts of Charles Jones, our President, Chief Executive Officer and our Trustee. We have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Jones the term of which expires on April 30, 2009; however, we cannot assure you that Mr. Jones will continue his employment with us. If we were to lose the services of Mr. Jones, we would lose the benefit of his extensive knowledge of, and experience in, the correctional and detention industry, and we would be required to obtain the services of a new chief executive officer in order to execute our business plan. We are subject to acquisition and expansion risks We intend to pursue acquisitions of additional correctional and detention facilities. In addition, we have expanded our scope to include essential purpose government real estate projects outside the corrections sector, including mental health and higher education facilities. We may be unable to attain anticipated profit levels from projects that we may acquire or integrate them successfully without incurring substantial expenses, delays or other problems that could negatively impact our results of operations. Acquisitions and expansion generally require the integration of facilities. Some facilities may be located in states in which we do not currently have operations. Some facilities may be in the mental health sector or higher education sector in which we do not currently have operations. Acquisitions and expansions entail risks that investments will fail to perform in accordance with expectations as well as general investment risks associated with any new real estate investment. The fact that we must distribute 90% of REIT taxable income in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT may limit our ability to rely upon lease income from our facilities to finance acquisitions. As a result, if debt or equity financing were not available on acceptable terms, further acquisition activities might be curtailed or cash available for distribution might be adversely affected. We may raise capital through the sale of securities in anticipation of one or more planned acquisitions and expansions. However, we may not be able to close some or all of these planned acquisitions or expansions due to a variety of factors including economic conditions, financial changes with respect to the target company or facility or inability of the parties to agree upon material terms. 25 Table of Contents We may be subject to uninsured losses Our lease agreements require lessees to maintain insurance with respect to each of the facilities. Our lessees carry comprehensive liability, fire, earthquake, flood (for certain facilities) and extended insurance coverage with respect to such properties with policy specifications and insurance limits customarily carried for similar properties. There are, however, certain types of losses which may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Subject to the terms of the lease agreements, should an uninsured loss occur, we could lose both our capital invested in, and anticipated profits from, one or more of our facilities. We are subject to financing risks and debt financing increases shareholders’ risk of loss In making real estate investments, we may borrow money, which increases the risk of loss of our shareholders’ investments. Moreover, our Board of Trustees determines our investment and financing policies with respect to certain activities, including our growth, capitalization, distribution and operating policies. Our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount or percentage of indebtedness we may incur and our board of trustees could alter or eliminate any existing debt policy without a vote of our shareholders. Provisions of our Declaration of Trust may have a potential anti-takeover effect The provisions of our Declaration of Trust and Bylaws which provide for ownership limitations, a staggered board of trustees, the advance notice provisions of the Bylaws, and authorizing our board of trustees to issue preferred shares without shareholder approval could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control over us or the removal of existing management, and as a result could prevent our shareholders from being paid a premium for their common shares. In addition, Maryland’s business combinations law makes it difficult to acquire control of us by means of a tender offer, open market purchase, a proxy fight or otherwise, if the acquisition is not authorized in advance by our board of trustees. Risks Related to Our Relationship with GEO Our relationship with GEO may limit acquisition opportunities from other sources Our ongoing relationship with GEO may discourage other correctional and detention facility operators from offering to sell facilities to us or from otherwise engaging in similar sale and leaseback transactions with us. These operators may take into account, to our detriment, the substantial alignment of interests between us and GEO and GEO’s competitive position to these operators. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our access to opportunities with operators other than GEO. We may be subject to future conflicts with GEO We and GEO may be in situations where we have differing interests resulting from our ongoing relationship. These situations include the fact that (i) GEO leases 11 facilities from us, (ii) we have the option to acquire certain other facilities from GEO, (iii) GEO will have a right of first refusal on the proposed sale by us of any facilities currently leased to GEO, (iv) until he resigned in May 2002, one of our current trustees, Richard Wackenhut, had served on the board of directors of The GEO Group while also serving on our board of trustees, and (v) two of our current trustees (Messrs. Jones and Travisono), the former of whom is our President and CEO, previously served as executive officers or directors of GEO prior to our initial public offering on April 28, 1998. Accordingly, the potential exists for future disagreements as to the compliance with the various agreements or the values of the facilities leased to GEO or lease payments therefor. Because of the relationship of certain of our trustees with GEO, such trustees’ decisions relating to the enforcement of our rights under the lease agreements and other matters run the inherent risk of conflict of interest. Additionally, the possible need by us, from time to time, to finance, refinance or effect a sale of any of the leased facilities may result in a need to modify the lease agreement applicable to such facility. Any such lease modification will require the consent of GEO, and the lack of consent from GEO could adversely affect our ability to consummate such financing or sale. Because of the relationships described above, there is the risk that we will not achieve the same results in our dealings with GEO that we might achieve if such relationships did not exist. 26 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry We may be subject to correctional and detention industry risks regarding general demand for facilities and, in many cases, for privatized facilities The ability of our facility operators to operate successfully in the correctional and detention industry depends on a number of factors, the most important of which is the continuation of demand by governmental agencies for additional correctional and detention facilities as well as the continued demand for privatized correctional and detention facilities. A deterioration in the demand for correctional and detention facilities in general and, in many cases, for privatized correctional and detention facilities, or a worsening in our facility operators’ relationships with governmental entities or the terms upon which our facility operators operate correctional and detention facilities, may adversely affect our facility operators’ business. Neither we nor our facility operators have any control over whether governmental agencies will contract for private prison services. Furthermore, because operating agreements are subject to either annual or bi-annual governmental appropriations, the failure by a governmental agency to receive such appropriations could result in termination of the contract by such agency or a reduction of the correctional services management fee payable to the facility operator. The termination of a facility management services or operating agreement, or a reduction in fees related to such agreement, by any governmental entity may adversely affect our facility operators’ ability to make lease payments to us. The correctional and detention industry is subject to governmental regulation, oversight, audits and investigations The correctional and detention business is highly regulated by a variety of governmental authorities which continuously oversee correctional and detention business and operations. For example, the contracting agency typically assigns full-time, on-site personnel to a facility to monitor the facility operator’s compliance with contract terms and applicable regulations. Failure to comply with correctional services management contract terms or regulations could expose a facility operator to substantial penalties, including the loss of an operating contract. In addition, changes in existing regulations could require the facility operator to modify substantially the manner in which it conducts business and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on the facility operator. Additionally, private facility operating agreements generally give the contracting agency the right to conduct routine audits of the facilities and operations. An audit involves a governmental agency’s review of the facility operator’s compliance with the prescribed policies and procedures established with respect to the facility. The facility operator also may be subject to investigations as a result of an audit, an inmate’s complaint or other causes. The termination of a facility operating agreement or modification of the standards for operation of a facility may adversely affect a facility operator’s ability to make rent payments to us. Fluctuations in prison occupancy levels may adversely impact a facility operator’s ability to make payments to us A substantial portion of a correctional and detention private facility operator’s revenues are generally generated under facility operating agreements that specify a net rate to be paid to the operator per day per inmate, referred to as the Per Diem Rate. Under a Per Diem Rate structure, a decrease in occupancy rates could cause a decrease in revenues and profitability of a private operator. A private facility operator is, therefore, dependent on government agencies housing a sufficient number of inmates to meet the facility’s design capacities. A failure by a governmental agency to do so may cause the private facility operator to forgo revenues and income or delay recognition of revenues and income to later periods. Any delay in the receipt of revenues from a government entity may adversely affect a private facility operator’s ability to make rent payments to us. We are subject to risks associated with the limited acceptance of private prison operation Management of correctional and detention facilities by private entities has not achieved complete acceptance by either governmental entities or the public, and may be subject to adverse campaign efforts from certain groups such as labor unions, local sheriff’s departments and groups that believe correctional and detention facility operations should only be conducted by governmental entities. Such resistance may cause a change in government and public acceptance of privatized correctional and detention facilities. In addition, changes in dominant political parties in any of the markets in which a facility operator provides services could result in significant changes to previously established views of privatization in such markets. An escape, riot or other disturbance at any privately-managed facility may result in publicity adverse to the private facility operator and the correctional and detention industry in general, which could adversely affect the facility operator’s business, including the renewal of the governmental entity’s contract and the availability of suitable investment opportunities to the Company. 27 Table of Contents We are subject to potential legal proceedings As an owner of real property, we may be subject to some proceedings relating to personal injury occurring at the correctional or detention facilities. We may be held responsible under state laws for claims based on personal injury to inmates, civil rights assertions by inmates or damage to personal property improvements owned by the lessee. While we have included provisions in our leases providing for indemnity against such claims, those indemnity provisions may not be upheld in all circumstances and we may not be able to collect indemnification payments from those operators. The indemnification obligations of those operators may adversely affect the ability of that entity to make lease payments to us. Furthermore, our failure to collect indemnity payments could adversely affect our ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders. We are subject to risks inherent in owning real estate Because we derive substantially all of our income from real estate ownership, we are subject to the general risks of owning real estate-related assets, including: • changes in demand for correctional and detention facilities in a locale; • changes in general economic or local conditions; • changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing facilities in an area; • the impact of environmental protection laws; • changes in interest rates and availability of financing which may render the sale, financing or refinancing of a property difficult or unattractive; • changes in real estate and zoning laws, including special use permits required to operate a correctional facility; and • changes in tax laws and other laws affecting REITs and correctional and detention facilities. We may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities As an owner and lessor of real properties, under various federal, state and local environmental laws, we may be required to clean up spills or other releases of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our properties. Some environmental laws impose liability whether or not the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. In some cases, liability may not be limited to the value of the property. The presence of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate any resulting contamination, also may adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or operate the affected property or to borrow using the affected property as collateral. Preliminary environmental assessments have been conducted on all of our properties (and we intend to conduct these assessments in connection with new property acquisitions) to evaluate the environmental condition of, and potential environmental liabilities associated with, our properties. These assessments generally consist of an investigation of environmental conditions at the property (not including soil or groundwater sampling or analysis), as well as a review of available information regarding the site and publicly available data regarding conditions at other sites in the vicinity. Some of our facilities may be subject to federal or state environmental investigations or remedial actions as a result of a property assessment. We are subject to valuation and liquidity risks and our properties are special use facilities Real estate investments are relatively illiquid, particularly special use facilities. Our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. If we must sell an investment, we cannot assure you that we will be able to dispose of it in the time period we desire or that the sale price of any investment will recoup or exceed the amount of our investment, particularly given the limited alternate uses of the facilities. 28 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Qualification as a REIT We would incur adverse tax consequences if we fail to qualify as a REIT Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code as to which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of facts and circumstances not entirely within our control. Future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, for federal income tax purposes, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for payment of dividends for each of the years involved because: • we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates on all of our ordinary income; • we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to shareholders in computing our taxable income; • we also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; • unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified; and • all dividends will be subject to tax as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will no longer be required to pay dividends. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. We may be forced to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions in order to maintain our REIT status In order to maintain our REIT status, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the REIT distribution requirements, even if the then prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. To qualify as REIT, we generally must distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our net taxable income each year, excluding capital gains. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which dividends paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. We may need short-term debt or long-term debt, or proceeds from asset sales, creation of joint ventures or sales of common stock to fund required distributions as a result of differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and the recognition of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. The inability of our cash flows to cover our distribution requirements could have an adverse impact on our ability to raise short and long-term debt or sell equity securities in order to fund distributions required to maintain our REIT status. Limits on changes in control may discourage takeover attempts beneficial to our shareholders To facilitate maintenance of our qualification as a REIT and to otherwise address concerns relating to concentration of capital stock ownership, our organizational documents generally prohibits ownership, directly, indirectly or beneficially, by any single shareholder of more than 9.8% of (i) the number of shares of any class or series of common shares or (ii) the number of shares of any class or series of preferred shares, unless waived by our board of trustees. Further, we are subject to provisions of Maryland corporate law, which, subject to certain exceptions, will prohibit us from engaging in any “business combination” with a person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our capital stock, referred to as an interested shareholder, for a period of five years following the date that such person became an interested shareholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. These provisions in our organizational documents and in Maryland corporate law may: • delay, deter or prevent a change of control over us or a tender offer, even if such action might be beneficial to our shareholders; 29 Table of Contents • limit our shareholders’ opportunity to receive a potential premium for their shares of common stock over then-prevailing market price; and • adversely affect the market price of our common shares. We lack control over day-to-day operations of our facilities To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may not operate or participate in decisions affecting the operations of any of the facilities acquired or owned by us. We have no authority to require any of our lessees to operate the facilities in a particular manner or to govern any particular aspect of their operation except as set forth in lease agreements. Thus, even if we believe a lessee is operating a facility inefficiently or in a manner adverse to our interests, we may not be able to require it to change its method of operation. We are limited to seeking redress only if a lessee violates the terms of its lease agreement, in which case our primary remedy is to terminate the relevant lease agreement or, in the case of a tenant we have more than one lease with, all of its leases, and seek to recover damages. If a lease agreement is terminated, we will be required to find another suitable lessee or risk losing our ability to elect or maintain REIT status. We cannot assure you that we will be able to locate a suitable replacement lessee or to attract such lessee, or that we could obtain a rental rate comparable to that paid by our current lessee under the related lease agreement. We cannot predict what effect, if any, the enactment of new tax provisions may have on the value of our common shares, either in terms of price or relative to other investments REITs currently enjoy tax advantages relative to regular C corporations because they are not subject to corporate-level income tax on income they distribute to shareholders, but shareholders do include REIT dividends in taxable income (to the extent such dividends do not represent a return of capital). The recently enacted Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003, or the Act, generally reduces to 15% the maximum marginal rate of tax that noncorporate taxpayers will pay on corporate dividends for taxable years ending after December 31, 2002 and before January 1, 2009. This reduced tax rate, however, generally will not apply to dividends paid by a REIT on its shares except in certain circumstances for certain limited amounts. While the earnings of a REIT that are distributed to its shareholders will still generally be subject to less federal income taxation in the aggregate than the distributed earnings of a non-REIT C corporation, which are distributed net of a corporate income tax, this legislation could make an investment in us comparatively less attractive than an investment in other corporations because dividends paid by REITs will generally not be eligible for the new reduced tax rates that apply for corporate dividends. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 