Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. A forward-looking statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future events or circumstances, and those future events or circumstances may not occur. Investors should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. The Company is under no obligation to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. These forward-looking statements are all based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. The Company’s sale of Hortons to the public, and proposed spin-off thereafter, may not occur, and the Company may not achieve the expected benefits of the sale or spin-off. A Form S-1 registration statement has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as part of the Company’s strategic initiative to sell 15-18% of Hortons in an IPO and proposed subsequent spin-off; however, the registration statement has not yet become effective. Changes in Hortons’ business results or market conditions, as well as other factors, could affect the decision to proceed with the IPO. In addition, numerous risks to the Company are inherent in the contemplated IPO. For example, the Company cannot predict the price or demand for the common stock to be sold, and the Company cannot make any assurance of the successful completion of the IPO or the aggregate proceeds that the Company may receive in connection with the IPO. During the registration process, the Company has and will devote resources to completing the IPO, which may have and may continue to divert the attention of the Company and its management team from the operation of its business. Similarly, the Company has and expects to continue to incur costs of counsel, accountants, underwriters and other advisors during the IPO. The Company may not achieve the operational and financial efficiencies anticipated as part of the IPO. The Company currently intends, assuming a successful IPO, to spin-off Hortons common stock that it owns as soon as practical, which is expected to occur by December 31, 2006; however, the Company cannot predict exactly when, if ever, the spin-off will occur. For example, if the market for Hortons shares falls dramatically or if the spin-off cannot be completed as a tax-free transaction for the Company, the Company may decide to delay the spin-off or to forego the spin-off altogether. The quick service restaurant segment is highly competitive, and that competition could lower revenues, margins and market share. The quick service restaurant segment of the foodservice industry is intensely competitive regarding price, service, location, personnel and type and quality of food. The Company and its franchisees compete with international, regional and local organizations primarily through the quality, variety and value perception of food products offered. Other key competitive factors include the number and location of restaurants, quality and speed of service, attractiveness of facilities, effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs, and new product 7 Table of Contents development by the Company and its competitors. The Company anticipates intense competition will continue to focus on pricing. Some of the Company’s competitors have substantially larger marketing budgets, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. In addition, the Company’s system competes within the food service market and the quick service restaurant segment not only for customers but also for management and hourly employees, suitable real estate sites and qualified franchisees. If the Company is unable to maintain its competitive position, it could experience downward pressure on prices, lower demand for products, reduced margins, the inability to take advantage of new business opportunities and the loss of market share. Changes in economic, market and other conditions could adversely affect the Company and its franchisees, and thereby the Company’s operating results. The quick-service restaurant industry is affected by changes in international, national, regional, and local economic conditions, consumer preferences and spending patterns, demographic trends, consumer perceptions of food safety, weather, traffic patterns, the type, number and location of competing restaurants, and the effects of war or terrorist activities and any governmental responses thereto. Factors such as inflation, food costs, labor and benefit costs, legal claims, and the availability of management and hourly employees also affect restaurant operations and administrative expenses. The ability of the Company and its franchisees to finance new restaurant development, improvements and additions to existing restaurants, and the acquisition of restaurants from, and sale of restaurants to, franchisees is affected by economic conditions, including interest rates and other government policies impacting land and construction costs and the cost and availability of borrowed funds. Events reported in the media, such as incidents involving food-borne illnesses or food tampering, whether or not accurate, can cause damage to each of the Company’s brand’s reputation and swiftly affect sales and profitability. Reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses (such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella) and injuries caused by food tampering have in the past severely injured the reputations of participants in the quick service restaurant segment and could in the future affect the Company as well. Each of the Company’s brand’s reputation is an important asset to the business; as a result, anything that damages a brand’s reputation could immediately and severely hurt systemwide sales and, accordingly, revenues and profits. If customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, the Company could also be forced to temporarily close some restaurants. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering, even those occurring solely at the restaurants of competitors, could, by resulting in negative publicity about the restaurant industry, adversely affect system sales on a local, regional or systemwide basis. A decrease in customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any of the Company’s restaurants, could materially harm the Company’s business. Failure to successfully implement the Company’s growth strategy could reduce, or reduce the growth of, the Company’s revenue and net income. The Company plans to increase the number of Wendy’s, Hortons and Baja Fresh restaurants, but may not be able to achieve its growth objectives and any new restaurants may not be profitable. The opening and success of restaurants depends on various factors, including: • competition from other quick service restaurants in current and future markets; • the degree of saturation in existing markets; • the identification and availability of suitable and economically viable locations; • sales levels at existing restaurants; • the negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for new locations; • permitting and regulatory compliance; • the ability to meet construction schedules; • the availability of qualified franchisees and their financial and other development capabilities (including their ability to obtain acceptable financing); 8 Table of Contents • the ability to hire and train qualified management personnel; and • general economic and business conditions. If the Company is unable to open as many new restaurants as planned, if the stores are less profitable than anticipated or if the Company is otherwise unable to successfully implement its growth strategy, revenue and profitability may grow more slowly or even decrease, which could cause the Company’s stock price to decrease. The Hortons brand may not effectively expand its presence in the U.S., where that brand is not as well known and where competitive conditions and markets may differ from those to which Hortons is accustomed. The Company plans to continue expanding its Hortons brand in the U.S., including into areas where customers are unfamiliar with Hortons. The Company will need to build brand awareness in those markets through greater investments in advertising and promotional activity than in comparable Canadian markets and those activities may not promote the Hortons brand as effectively as intended, if at all. Many of the U.S. markets into which expansion of the Hortons brand is contemplated will have competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns that differ from Hortons’ existing markets. The Company may need to adapt that brand and Hortons restaurants to those markets. Those markets may have lower average unit sales, and may have higher construction, occupancy or operating costs than existing Hortons restaurants. Sales and profits at restaurants opened in new markets may take longer to reach expected levels or may never do so. In addition, if Hortons restaurants are less profitable in U.S. markets, the Company could have difficulty finding qualified U.S. franchisees willing to participate in the expansion. This could limit the Company’s ability to expand or could dilute the quality of Hortons franchisees, either of which would likely negatively impact revenue growth and operating results. The Company also currently provides financing support to new U.S. franchisees; if U.S. restaurants are not successful, the Company may have to expand its financing support programs or extend financing on more generous terms, either of which could increase costs and thus decrease the Company’s net income. The Company and its franchisees are affected by commodity market fluctuations, which could reduce profitability or sales and shortages or interruptions in the supply or delivery of perishable food products could damage a brands’ reputation and adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company and its franchisees purchase large quantities of food and supplies, which can be subject to significant price fluctuations due to seasonal shifts, climate conditions, industry demand, changes in international commodity markets and other factors. The Company and its franchisees are dependent on frequent deliveries of perishable food products that meet certain specifications. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of perishable food products caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, disease or food-borne illnesses, inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients, which would likely lower revenues, damage the Company’s reputation and otherwise harm its business. Current restaurant locations may become unattractive, and attractive new locations may not be available for a reasonable price, if at all. The success of any restaurant depends in substantial part on its location. There can be no assurance that current locations will continue to be attractive as demographic patterns change. Neighborhood or economic conditions where restaurants are located could decline in the future, thus resulting in potentially reduced sales in those locations. If the Company and its franchisees cannot obtain desirable locations at reasonable prices the ability to effect the Company’s growth strategy will be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Changing health or dietary preferences may cause consumers to avoid products offered by the Company in favor of alternative foods. The foodservice industry is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. If prevailing health or dietary preferences and perceptions cause consumers to avoid these products offered by the Company’s restaurants in favor of alternative or healthier foods, demand for the Company’s products may be reduced and its business could be harmed. The Company is subject to health, employment, environmental and other government regulations, and failure to comply with existing or future government regulations could expose the Company to litigation, damage the Company’s or a brand’s reputation and lower profits. The Company and its franchisees are subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting their businesses. The successful development and operation of restaurants depend to a significant extent on the selection and acquisition of suitable sites, which are subject to zoning, land use (including the placement of drive-thru windows), environmental (including litter), traffic and other regulations. Restaurant operations are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local departments relating to health, food preparation, sanitation and safety standards, federal and state labor laws (including applicable minimum wage requirements, overtime, working and safety conditions and citizenship requirements), federal and state laws prohibiting discrimination and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. If the Company fails to comply with any of these laws, it may be subject to governmental action or litigation, and its reputation could be accordingly harmed. Injury to the Company’s or a brand’s reputation would, in turn, likely reduce revenues and profits. In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory and consumer focus on nutrition and advertising practices in the food industry, particularly among quick service restaurants. As a result, the Company may become subject to regulatory initiatives in the area of nutrition disclosure or advertising, such as requirements to provide information about the nutritional content of its food products, which could increase expenses. The operation of the Company’s franchise system is also subject to franchise laws and regulations enacted by a number of states and rules promulgated by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Any future legislation regulating franchise relationships may negatively affect the Company’s operations, particularly its relationship with its franchisees. Failure to comply with new or existing franchise laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales. Changes in applicable accounting rules imposed by governmental regulators or private governing bodies could also affect the Company’s reported results of operations, and thus cause its stock price to fluctuate or decline. Litigation from customers, franchisees, employees and others could harm the Company’s or a brand’s reputation and impact operating results. Claims of illness or injury relating to food quality or food handling are common in the food service industry. In addition, class action lawsuits have been filed, and may continue to be filed, against various quick service restaurants alleging, among other things, that quick service restaurants have failed to disclose the health risks associated with high-fat foods and that quick service restaurants’ marketing practices have encouraged obesity. In addition to decreasing the Company’s sales and profitability and diverting management resources, adverse publicity or a substantial judgment against the Company or one of its brands could negatively impact the Company’s or brand’s reputation, hindering the ability to attract and retain qualified franchisees and grow the business. Further, the Company may be subject to employee, franchisee and other claims in the future based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment, wrongful termination and wage, rest break and meal break issues, including those relating to overtime compensation. These types of claims, as well as other types of lawsuits to 10 Table of Contents which the Company is subject to from time to time, can distract management’s attention from core business operations. The Company may not be able to adequately protect its intellectual property, which could decrease the value of the Company or its brands and products. The success of the Company’s business depends on the continued ability to use existing trademarks, service marks and other components of each of the Company’s brands in order to increase brand awareness and further develop branded products. The Company may not be able to adequately protect its trademarks, and the use of these trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution or unfair competition. All of the steps the Company has taken to protect its intellectual property may not be adequate. The Company’s earnings and business growth strategy depends in large part on the success of its franchisees, and the Company’s or a brand’s reputation may be harmed by actions taken by franchisees that are outside of the Company’s control. A portion of the Company’s earnings comes from royalties, rents and other amounts paid by the Company’s franchisees. Franchisees are independent contractors, and their employees are not employees of the Company. The Company provides training and support to, and monitors the operations of, its franchisees, but the quality of their restaurant operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond the Company’s control. Consequently, franchisees may not successfully operate stores in a manner consistent with the Company’s high standards and requirements and franchisees may not hire and train qualified managers and other restaurant personnel. Any operational shortcoming of a franchise restaurant is likely to be attributed by consumers to an entire brand or the Company’s system, thus damaging the Company’s or a brand’s reputation and potentially affecting revenues and profitability. Ownership and leasing of significant amounts of real estate exposes the Company to possible liabilities and losses. The Company owns the land and building, or leases the land and/or the building, for many system restaurants. Accordingly, the Company is subject to all of the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. In particular, the value of the Company’s assets could decrease, and its costs could increase, because of changes in the investment climate for real estate, demographic trends and supply or demand for the use of the restaurants, which may result from competition from similar restaurants in the area, as well as liability for environmental conditions. The Company generally cannot cancel these leases. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and the Company decides to close it, the Company may nonetheless be committed to perform its obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. In addition, as each of the leases expires, the Company may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause the Company to close stores in desirable locations. The Company intends to evaluate acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic initiatives, any of which could distract management or otherwise have a negative effect on revenues, costs and stock price. The Company’s future success may depend on opportunities to buy or obtain rights to other businesses or technologies that could complement, enhance or expand its current business or products or that might otherwise offer growth opportunities. In particular, the Company intends to evaluate potential mergers, acquisitions, joint venture investments, strategic initiatives, alliances, vertical integration opportunities and divestitures. The Company’s attempt to engage in these transactions may expose it to various inherent risks, including: • accurately assessing the value, future growth potential, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates; • the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; • the ability to achieve projected economic and operating synergies; 11 Table of Contents • difficulties successfully integrating, operating, maintaining and managing newly acquired operations or employees; • difficulties maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquired business; • the possibility of impairment charges if an acquired business performs below expectations; and • the diversion of management’s attention from the existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or implement the strategic initiative. The Company’s annual and quarterly financial results may fluctuate depending on various factors, many of which are beyond its control, and, if the Company fails to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the Company’s share price may decline. The Company’s sales and operating results can vary from quarter to quarter and year to year depending on various factors, many of which are beyond its control. Certain events and factors may directly and immediately decrease demand for the Company’s products. If customer demand decreases rapidly, the Company’s results of operations would also decline precipitously. These events and factors include: • variations in the timing and volume of the Company’s sales and franchisees’ sales; • sales promotions by the Company and its competitors; • changes in average same-store sales and customer visits; • variations in the price, availability and shipping costs of supplies; • seasonal effects on demand for the Company’s products; • unexpected slowdowns in new store development efforts; • changes in competitive and economic conditions generally; • changes in the cost or availability of ingredients or labor; • weather and acts of God; • changes in the number of franchise agreement renewals; and • foreign currency exposure. Catastrophic events may disrupt the Company’s business. Unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts, public health issues, and natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt the Company’s operations, disrupt the operations of franchisees, suppliers or customers, or result in political or economic instability. These events could reduce demand for the Company’s products or make it difficult or impossible receive products from suppliers. The Company’s international operations are subject to various factors of uncertainty. The Company’s business outside of the United States is subject to a number of additional factors, including international economic and political conditions, differing cultures and consumer preferences, currency regulations and fluctuations, diverse government regulations and tax systems, uncertain or differing interpretations of rights and obligations in connection with international franchise agreements and the collection of royalties from international franchisees, the availability and cost of land and construction costs, and the availability of experienced management, appropriate franchisees, and joint venture partners. Although the Company believes it has developed the support structure required for international growth, there is no assurance that such growth will occur or that international operations will be profitable. The Company may from time to time sell real estate and company operated restaurants to its franchisees. The disposition of company operated restaurants to new or existing franchisees is part of the Company’s strategy to develop the overall health of the system by acquiring restaurants from, and disposing of restaurants to, franchisees where prudent. The realization of gains from future dispositions of restaurants depends in part on the 12 Table of Contents ability of the Company to complete disposition transactions on acceptable terms. The sale of real estate previously leased to franchisees is generally part of the program to improve the Company’s return on invested capital. There are various reasons why the program might be unsuccessful, including changes in economic, credit market, real estate market or other conditions, and the ability of the Company to complete sale transactions on acceptable terms and at or near the prices estimated as attainable by the Company. The Hortons joint venture has uncertainties. The success of the joint venture to manufacture and distribute par-baked products for Hortons restaurants could be affected by a number of factors, including many of the factors set forth above. In addition, the realization of expected levels of production efficiencies, and actual product distribution costs and costs incurred to equip Hortons restaurants for par-baked products occurring within expected ranges, could affect actual results. The foregoing list of risk factors is not exhaustive. There can be no assurance that the Company has correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting its business operations or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently believes to be immaterial also may adversely impact the business. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 