D. Risk Factors An investment in the common shares of the Company involves a high degree of risk and must be considered highly speculative due to the nature of the Company’s business and the present stage of exploration and development of its mineral resource properties. Failure to successfully address the risks and uncertainties described below could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations, and the trading price of the Company’s shares may decline and investors may lose all or part of their investment. The principal activity of the Company is mineral exploration, which is inherently risky. Exploration is also capital intensive, and the Company currently has no source of income. The risk factors that could affect the Company’s future results include, but are not limited to, those items discussed below. Descriptions of the Company’s exploration properties, including details of an ongoing legal action pertaining to the El Dorado property, are described in Item 4D – “Property, Plant and Equipment”. In particular, the following risk factors apply: We will need significant additional capital, which we may be unable to obtain. The Company has no source of revenue and is reliant on its cash and short term investments in order to finance its exploration activities, general and administrative and legal expenses. The Company currently has negative working capital and its ability to continue operations and exploration activities as a going concern is dependent upon its ability to obtain financing. The Company will need to raise additional funds during fiscal 2014 to support exploration and administration expenses as well as various costs under PacRim’s Arbitration action (see Item 4B – “Business Overview”). Furthermore the Company does not have the funds in place to conduct any significant exploration programs, or mine development activities at the El Dorado property should the Company receive the permits allowing it to undertake these activities. While the Company has been successful in obtaining its required funding in the past, there is no assurance that sufficient funds will be available to the Company in the future, or be available on favourable terms. Factors that could affect the availability of financing include fluctuations in the Company’s share price, the state of international debt and equity markets, investor perceptions and expectations, global financial and metals markets, progress on any of the Company’s exploration properties, and developments, if any, on the El Dorado project permitting application. Additional financing will require, but may not be limited to, the issuance of additional equity, which may be very dilutive to the Company’s shares and shareholders. Failure to obtain additional financing could result in the Company’s failure to remain a going concern, the Company’s inability to continue the Arbitration action, or could cause the delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration and development of its projects with a possible loss of some properties. There is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. The Company’s financial statements have been prepared on the basis that the Company will continue as a going concern, which assumes that the Company will be able to meet its commitments, continue operations, realize its assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business for the foreseeable future. There are events and conditions that cast substantial doubt on the validity of that assumption. The Company will require additional financing for administrative purposes, for legal expenses related to the Arbitration and to continue to conduct ongoing exploration programs and meet future property commitments. The costs for the Arbitration are substantial and are anticipated to increase as the case proceeds to through the final, merits-based phase. Factors that could affect the availability of financing include fluctuations in the Company’s share price, the state of international debt and equity markets, investor perceptions and expectations, global financial and metals markets, progress on any of the Company’s exploration properties, and developments, if any, on the El Dorado project permitting application. Global securities markets and commodity prices are volatile and have fluctuated markedly in recent years. Most recently, commodity prices, in particular the price of gold, have decreased substantially. Volatility, and in particular decreases, in global stock markets and commodity prices may impact access to capital and/or the terms and conditions under which financing may be available. The Company believes it will be able to obtain the necessary financing to meet its requirements on an ongoing basis; however, there can be no assurance that the necessary financing will be obtained, and such financing, if available, may be very dilutive to the Company’s shares and shareholders. As it has in the past, the Company plans to obtain additional financing through, but not limited to, the issuance of additional equity. - 9 - The consolidated financial statements do not reflect adjustments in the carrying values of the assets and liabilities, the reported revenues and expenses, and the balance sheet classifications used, that would be necessary if the company were unable to realize its assets and settle its liabilities. Because we have a history of losses and anticipate continued losses unless and until we are able to generate sufficient revenues to support our operations, we may lack the financial stability required to continue operations. The Company has a history of losses and may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. As of April 30, 2013, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $94.5 million. The Company currently has no source of revenue and there can be no assurance that the Company will realize revenue growth or achieve profitability in the future. We may be unable to maintain exchange listings. The Company’s shares currently trade on the TSX in Canada and on the OTCQX platform in the US. The Company remains SEC-registered in the US. The Company’s ability to maintain its TSX listing will be dependent on meeting the exchange’s ongoing listing maintenance standards including provisions for minimum exploration work expenditures. The TSX may elect at any time to undertake a formal listing review of the Company, which could result in the Company’s shares being subject to delisting from the TSX, in which event the Company would seek a listing on the TSX Venture Exchange. However, there is no assurance that the Company would be successful in obtaining such a listing. Our properties are in the exploration stage and are highly speculative in nature, which means there can be no assurance that our programs will result in the discovery of any economically feasible mineral deposits. Resource exploration, development, and operation is a highly speculative business that involves significant risks, which even a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate. While the discovery of precious metals and other minerals may result in substantial rewards, few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. Major expenses may be required to locate and establish economically viable mineral deposits, to develop metallurgical processes and to construct mining and processing facilities at a particular site. It is impossible to ensure that the exploration or development programs planned by the Company will result in a profitable commercial mining operation. The potential for any project to eventually become an economically viable operation depends on numerous factors including: the quantity and quality of the minerals discovered if any, the proximity to infrastructure, metal and mineral prices (which vary considerably over time) and government regulations. The exact effect these factors can have on any given exploration property cannot accurately be predicted but the effect can be materially adverse. Except for the El Dorado Project, on which a pre-feasibility study was completed in 2005, none of the Company's properties have a known body of ore and the Company’s proposed exploration programs are an exploratory search for ore. Although mineral resource estimates included in this document (and/or in previous regulatory documents filed by the Company) have been carefully calculated, prepared, reviewed and/or verified by independent mining experts who are Qualified Persons, and have been reviewed by the Company, these amounts are estimates only and no assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery of gold and/or silver from mineral resources or previously disclosed reserves will in fact be realized or that an identified mineral resource will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) ore body which can be legally and economically exploited. Estimates of mineral resources and reserves, production and capital costs can also be affected by such factors as environmental permitting regulations and requirements, weather, environmental factors, unforeseen technical difficulties, unusual or unexpected geological formations and work interruptions. In addition, the grade of ore ultimately mined may differ from that indicated by drilling results. There can be no assurance that the percentage of gold recovered in small scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in large scale tests under on-site conditions or in production scale ore recovery. The Company’s exploration properties are located in El Salvador. The Company may commence exploration programs in other jurisdictions in the future. As with most jurisdictions, El Salvador imposes certain requirements and obligations on the owners of exploratory properties including application requirements, periodic reporting requirements, limited terms and certain fees and royalty payments. The Company may acquire interests in properties in other North, Central and South American countries that may place substantial restrictions on the Company’s exploratory and development activities. There can be no assurance that additional significant restrictions will not be placed on the Company's existing or future properties or its operations. Such restrictions may have a materially adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operation. - 10 - Mining operations generally involve a high degree of risk. The Company’s operations are subject to all of the physical hazards and risks normally encountered in the exploration, development and production of precious metals and other minerals including unusual or unexpected geological formations, seismic activity, rock bursts, cave-ins, flooding and other conditions involved in the drilling and removal of material, any of which could result in damage to or destruction of documents, samples or drill core, damage to life or property, environmental damage and possible legal liability. It may not be possible to insure against these risks, or for economic reasons the Company may elect not to insure against these risks. The payment of liabilities as a result of the occurrence of any of these hazards may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. There can be no assurance that the Company’s exploration and acquisition programs will yield new reserves to expand current resources. The development of the Company’s properties will require the commitment of substantial financial resources to conduct the time-consuming exploration and development of properties. There can be no assurance that the Company will generate any revenues or achieve profitability. We cannot be certain that we have good title to our properties. PRES, a subsidiary of PacRim, has applied for an exploitation concession over a portion of its El Dorado Project exploration licence area and has carried out the studies required by the authorities for this concession, including an EIS. The approval of the El Dorado EIS by the Salvadoran Ministry of Natural Resources and the Environment is a requirement for approval of the exploitation concession by the Ministry of Economy. The Company cannot say with certainty if or when the authorities in El Salvador will approve the El Dorado EIS or grant PRES an exploitation concession. The exploitation concession application area covers ground protected by an exploration licence granted to PRES that nominally expired in January 2005. Legal opinions secured by the Company indicate that El Salvadoran administrative laws and procedures assure PRES exclusive rights to the proposed exploitation concession area while the application is in process, despite the underlying exploration licence having expired. There can be no assurance however that this opinion will not be challenged by regulatory authorities or other third parties and that PRES’s legal rights to explore within the exploitation concession application area will be upheld indefinitely pending the outcome of the application process. The Company conducted significant due diligence on the Remance Project in Panama prior to signing a letter of intent to acquire the project from Minera Clifton, including securing legal opinions on the title and tenure of the Remance exploitation concession. The Company is of the opinion that that title to the Remance project lies with Minera Clifton. However, the Remance property, as well as the Company's other exploration properties, may be subject to prior unregistered agreements or transfers or local land claims and title may be affected by undetected defects. The expiry date of the initial term of the Remance exploitation concession has passed. Minera Clifton’s application for an extension of the Remance exploitation concession (as is provided for under Panamanian law) was recently denied by the Panamanian ministry responsible for mining, a decision which Minera Clifton is now appealing. The Company’s decision to sign a Final Agreement on the acquisition of this project is dependent on Minera Clifton winning its appeal and receiving an extension to the term of the Remance mining concession. There can be no assurance at this time that the ministry’s decision will be overturned and that the Remance exploitation concession extension will ultimately be granted. Although the Company intends to keep the Remance LOI in place (as there is no cost in doing so), the Company’s acquisition of the Remance project cannot be guaranteed. The Company has investigated and believes it has good title to its properties. However, there is no guarantee that adverse claims to title will not arise in the future, nor can the Company express an opinion on how difficult the resolution of such claims would be under the laws of foreign jurisdictions. Calculations of mineral reserves and of mineralized material are estimates only, subject to uncertainty due to factors including metal prices, inherent variability of the ore, and recoverability of metal in the mining process. Although the Company has assessed the mineral resource estimates presented herein and mineral resource and reserve estimates documented in other regulatory filings, and believes that the methods used to estimate such mineral reserves and mineral resources are appropriate, such figures are estimates. As well, estimates of mineral reserves and mineral resources are inherently imprecise and depend to some extent on statistical inferences drawn from limited drilling, which may prove unreliable. Furthermore, no assurances can be given that the indicated level of recovery of gold or other minerals will be realized. Market price fluctuations of gold or other minerals may render reserves and deposits containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomic. Moreover, short-term operating factors relating to the mineral reserves, such as the need for orderly development of the deposits or the processing of new or different grades, may cause mining operations to be unprofitable in any particular period. Definitional standards for reporting mineralized material differ between United States reporting standards and the Canadian standards use in this Annual Report on Form 20-F. - 11 - We use the terms “measured resources,” “indicated resources” and “inferred resources” in this Annual Report on Form 20-F to comply with reporting standards in Canada. We advise US investors that while those terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the SEC does not recognize them. While we have converted a portion of these resources to proven and probable reserves, US investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the additional mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into mineral reserves. Mineral resources have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of measured mineral resources, indicated mineral resources, or inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. In accordance with Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources cannot form the basis of a feasibility study or other economic evaluations. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part of the reported measured mineral resource, indicated mineral resource, or inferred mineral resource in this Annual Report is economically or legally mineable. See “Cautionary Note to US Investors Regarding Resource and Reserve Estimates” above. Our operations are subject to the inherent risks associated with mineral exploration activities in a foreign jurisdiction. The Company's current exploration projects are located in El Salvador, and the Company may acquire exploration properties in other North, Central and South American countries. Mineral exploration and mining activities in foreign countries are subject to risks normally associated with the conduct of business in foreign countries and in addition its business activities may be affected in varying degrees by political stability and government regulations as these evolve in sovereign nations. These risks may include foreign labour disputes, invalidation of governmental orders, uncertain political and economic environments, war or civil disturbances, changes in laws, changes in foreign exchange rates, regulations and policies of governments, changes in foreign tax laws, delays in obtaining necessary permits, limitations on the repatriation of earnings and original investments and increased costs of and difficulty in obtaining financing. Currency fluctuations, exchange controls, change to tax regimes and political action could impair the value of the Company's assets in the foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Mining operations have inherent risks and liabilities associated with possible pollution of the environment and with the disposal of waste products occurring as a result of mineral exploration or the production of metals from producing mines. Laws and regulations involving the protection and remediation of the environment and governmental policies and regulations for the implementation of such laws and regulations are constantly changing and are, in general, becoming more restrictive and more costly to abide by. There may be costs and delays associated with compliance with these laws or regulations that could prohibit the Company from the development or expansion of a mine. Mine closure and reclamation cost requirements could change from current estimates. PRES has experienced significant delays in the processing of its El Dorado EIS and exploitation concession application, and as a result PacRim initiated an Arbitration action against the GOES at ICSID headquarters in Washington, DC. There can be no assurance that PRES will be successful in either obtaining its sought-after El Dorado exploitation concession, or that any legal challenges PacRim has undertaken or that the Company or its subsidiaries may choose to undertake in the future to resolve this issue will be successful. We are subject to additional risks due to our operations being in foreign countries. The Company and its subsidiaries operate in certain parts of the world that have experienced social unrest, political and economic instability and resulting governmental corruption and may operate its business in manners that are contrary to the regulations imposed in the United States and Canada. While the Company has policies in place to ensure adequate monitoring of its activities and compliance with Canadian, United States and local laws and regulations in the countries in which it operates, there can be no assurance that the Company’s internal control policies and procedures will always protect it from reckless or negligent acts committed by its employees or agents. Such employees or agents may undertake actions that would result in a violation of law, including but not limited to, tax laws, customs laws, environmental laws, labour laws, permitting laws and regulations, industry laws or international anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, including Canadian anti-corruption laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt the Company’s business and result in a material adverse effect on its business and operations. The loss of key management personnel may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The success of the operations and activities of the Company is dependent to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of a small number of skilled and experienced executives and personnel. Due to the small size of the Company, the loss of any of these key persons or the inability of the Company to attract and retain additional highly-skilled employees may adversely affect its business and future operations. The Company does not maintain key employee insurance on any of its employees. Certain of our directors or officers may be in a conflict of interest position. The Company's directors and officers may serve as directors or officers of other resource companies or have significant shareholdings in other resource companies and, to the extent that such other companies may participate in ventures in which the Company may participate, the directors of the Company may have a conflict of interest in negotiating and concluding terms respecting the extent of such participation. In the event that such a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of the Company's directors, directors who have such a conflict will declare their potential conflict and abstain from voting for or against the approval of such participation or such terms. - 12 - From time to time several companies may participate in the acquisition, exploration and development of natural resource properties thereby allowing for their participation in larger programs, permitting involvement in a greater number of programs and reducing financial exposure in respect of any one program. It may also occur that a particular company will assign all or a portion of its interest in a particular program to another of these companies due to the financial position of the company making the assignment. In accordance with the laws of British Columbia, the directors of the Company are required to act honestly, in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. In determining whether or not the Company will participate in a particular program and the interest therein to be acquired by it, the directors will primarily consider the degree of risk to which the Company may be exposed and its financial position at that time. The resource industry is very competitive. Significant and increasing competition exists for the limited number of gold acquisition opportunities available worldwide. As a result of this competition, some of which is with large established mining companies having substantial capabilities and substantially greater financial and technical resources than the Company, the Company may be unable to acquire future potential gold mining properties on terms it considers acceptable. The Company also competes with other mining companies in the recruitment and retention of qualified employees. Increased costs could affect our financial condition. Costs at projects that the Company currently or in the future may explore or develop could be subject to variation from one year to the next due to a number of factors, such as changing ore grade, metallurgy and revisions to mine plans, if any, in response to the physical shape and location of the ore body. In addition, costs are affected by the price of commodities such as fuel, rubber and electricity. Such commodities are at times subject to volatile price movements, including increases that could make production at certain operations less profitable. A material increase in costs at any significant location could have a significant effect on the Company’s financial condition and profitability. We are subject to currency fluctuations that may affect our costs of doing business. The Company's offices and primary activities are currently located in Canada, the United States, and El Salvador. Gold and silver are sold in international markets at prices denominated in US dollars. However, some of the costs associated with the Company's activities in Canada may be denominated in currencies other than the US dollar. Any appreciation of these currencies vis a vis the US dollar could increase the Company's cost of doing business in these countries. In addition, the US dollar is subject to fluctuation in value vis a vis the Canadian dollar. The Company does not utilize hedging programs to mitigate the effect of currency movements. Mineral exploration involves a high degree of risk for which we may not be adequately insured. The Company has purchased liability insurance that it believes is appropriate for the level of risk incurred, however there are no guarantees that the level of coverage of existing policies can or will be maintained. Furthermore, the Company does not carry insurance for political risk, nor environmental damage or pollution because such coverage cannot be purchased at reasonable costs. This lack of insurance coverage could result in material economic harm to the Company if a significant claim against the Company should occur. We are subject to uncertain costs related to reclamation at Denton Rawhide. During fiscal 2009 the Company sold the assets it held through its 49% interest in the Denton-Rawhide joint venture to its 51% partner Kennecott. At the time of this sale, future reclamation costs were estimated to be $5.3 million. Subsequently, in late calendar 2010, Kennecott sold its 100% interest in the Denton-Rawhide Joint Venture to a third party. According to the terms of Kennecott's 2010 sale, reclamation obligations at the Denton-Rawhide operation were separated such that Kennecott remains responsible for reclamation expenditures due to any disturbances created prior to the sale, and the purchaser becomes responsible for undertaking reclamation related to any disturbances created after the sale. As part of the sale of its interest in Denton-Rawhide to Kennecott, the Company had provided a guarantee on 49% of any reclamation and closure costs in the event that these expenditures (limited to those related to disturbances made up to the point the Company sold its interest in the operation) were to exceed $7.0 million. In other words, the Company's obligations are limited to pre-sale property conditions. We are subject to environmental regulations pursuant to a variety of federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations. The Company’s exploration activities are subject to environmental regulation in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. These regulations mandate, among other things, the maintenance of air and water quality standards and land reclamation. They also set forth limitations on the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner that will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. There is no assurance that future changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect the Company’s operations. Environmental hazards may also exist on the Company’s properties that are currently unknown to the Company and that have been caused by previous or existing owners or operators of the properties. - 13 - Environmental approvals and permits are currently, and may in the future, be required in connection with the operations of the Company. To the extent that such approvals are required and not obtained, the Company may be curtailed or prohibited from continuing in its exploration, development or mining activities or from proceeding with its exploration or development plans for current properties. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions that cause exploration, development or mining activities to cease or be curtailed and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures or remedial actions. In such an event, the Company could be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the Company’s activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Amendments to existing environmental laws and regulations governing exploration, development and mining activities of mining companies, or more stringent application of current laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on the Company causing increases in exploration expenses, capital expenditures or production costs, or a reduction in production levels at producing operations, or require abandonment or delays in development of new mining properties. We are subject to ongoing and increasing compliance obligations as a result of being a public company, which we may not be able to satisfy. Legal, accounting and other expenses associated with public company reporting requirements have increased significantly in the past decade. The Company anticipates that general and administrative costs associated with regulatory compliance will continue to increase alongside corporate governance requirements, including rules and requirements of the SEC, Canadian Securities Administrators, the TSX and the OTCQX. The Company expects these rules and regulations to continue to result in significant legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to effectively meet all of the requirements of the regulations to which it must comply, including various sections of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Canadian National Instrument 52-109, Certification of Disclosure in Issuers’ Annual and Interim Filings (“NI 52-109”). Any failure to effectively implement new or improved internal controls, or to resolve difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm the Company’s operating results, and could cause the Company to fail to meet reporting obligations or result in management being required to give a qualified assessment of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. Any such result could cause investors to lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s stock price. The Company also expects these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for it to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and it may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for the Company to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on its board of directors or as executive officers. If the Company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, the Company's ability to provide accurate financial statements and comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and/or NI 52-109 could be impaired, which could cause the Company's stock price to decrease. Future sales of common shares by existing shareholders could decrease the trading price of our common shares. The sale of a large number of common shares of the Company in the public markets, or the potential for such sales, could decrease the trading price of the Company’s common shares and could negatively impact the Company’s ability to raise capital through future sales of common shares. We cannot guarantee that we will remain a foreign private issuer, and if our status changes we will be subject to increased compliance costs. The Company is required to determine its “Foreign Private Issuer” status (as defined in Rule 3b-4(c) under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (as amended) (the “Exchange Act”) for the purposes of U.S. securities law), annually at the end of its second fiscal quarter. Less than 50% of the Company’s voting securities were held by U.S. residents as of the last business day of its most recently completed second fiscal quarter and as such, the Company is considered a Foreign Private Issuer. Though not strictly required to, the Company also meets the following secondary conditions that would assure its Foreign Private Issuer status: (i) a majority of its executive officers and directors, taken separately, are non-U.S. citizens or residents, (ii) more than 50% of its assets are located outside the U.S., and (iii) the business of the Company is principally administered outside the U.S. The Company may in the future lose its foreign private issuer status if it fails to meet any of the aforementioned criteria. - 14 - The regulatory and compliance costs to the Company under U.S. securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly more than the costs the Company incurs as a Canadian foreign private issuer eligible to use the multijurisdictional disclosure system. If the Company is not a foreign private issuer it would be required to file periodic and current reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms with the SEC, which are more detailed and extensive than the forms available to a foreign private issuer. This could have a materially adverse impact on the Company’s corporate overhead costs and its ability to raise future financing. We are a foreign corporation and most of our directors and officers are outside of the United States, which may make enforcement of civil liabilities difficult. We are incorporated under the laws of the Province of British Columbia, Canada. The majority of its Directors are resident in Canada. Consequently, it may be difficult for US investors to affect service of process within the United States upon us or upon those Directors or officers who are not residents of the United States, or to realize in the United States upon judgments. Judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities may be enforceable in Canada by a Canadian court if the US court in which the judgment was obtained had jurisdiction, as determined by the Canadian court, in the matter. There is substantial doubt whether an original action could be brought successfully in Canada against any of such persons or the Company predicted solely upon such civil liabilities. We are subject to risks related to recent market conditions and events. The unprecedented events in global financial markets in the past several years have had a profound impact on the global economy. Many industries, including gold mining industry, have been and continue to be impacted by these market conditions. Some of the key impacts of the current financial market turmoil include contraction in credit markets resulting in a widening of credit risk, devaluations, high volatility in global equity, commodity, foreign exchange and precious metal markets and a lack of market confidence and liquidity. A continued or worsened slowdown in the financial markets or other economic conditions, including but not limited to, sovereign debt and government solvency conditions, consumer spending, employment rates, business conditions, inflation, fuel and energy costs, consumer debt levels, lack of available credit, the state of the financial markets, interest rates and tax rates, may adversely affect our growth and profitability. Specifically: the global credit and liquidity crisis could impact the cost and availability of financing and our overall liquidity; decreases in and/or volatility of gold prices could impact the availability and terms of potential equity financing; inflationary pressures could impact the economic viability of our projects; volatile currency exchange rates could impact our business costs; the devaluation and volatility of global stock markets would impact the value of our securities. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 