Item 1A. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY The loss or interruption of supply from our key parts suppliers could limit our ability to distribute our products. We purchase certain products from various suppliers, some of which are located outside of the United States. Any loss or interruption of supply from our key parts suppliers may require us to find new suppliers. The number of suppliers for certain electronic components is limited. We could experience delays while we seek new suppliers and could have difficulty finding new suppliers, which would substantially impair our operating results and business. The loss of the Illinois VGT contract with GTech would reduce our revenues and our profitability. We currently have an exclusive contract to distribute VGT’s in Illinois for Gtech. This exclusive contract is scheduled to expire on June 15, 2015. If the contract is not renewed, we will no longer be able to sell Spielo VGT’s in Illinois which will significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. As part of this relationship, we hold approximately $3.5 million in VGT inventory, which if the contract is not renewed, will need to be sold or liquidated. There can be no assurance as to the amount which we could receive if liquidated. Intense competition in our industry could impair our ability to grow and achieve profitability. We may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors. The market for our products and services is intensely competitive and constantly attracts new competitors even as others leave the industry due to low barriers to entry to our business. We expect this competition to further intensify in the future. Some of our competitors are large companies with greater financial, marketing and product development resources. In addition, new competitors may enter our key markets. This may place us at a disadvantage in responding to our competitors’ pricing strategies, technological advances and other initiatives. The ability to assist our Illinois VGT customers to obtain financing may affect our VGT sales and profitability. Our Illinois VGT customers require significant financing in order to purchase our VGT equipment. Due to the high initial cost of VGT equipment, approximately 75% of our sales are dependent upon their ability to obtain financing. We have been successful to date in helping them to obtain financing from the equipment supplier and other independent sources, such as Firestone Financial. However, there is no certainty that we will be able to continue to receive adequate additional financing for our VGT customers in the future. -4- Table Of Contents The gaming business is heavily regulated and we depend on our ability to obtain/maintain regulatory approvals. Nearly all of the jurisdictions in the United States require licenses, permits, documentation of qualification, including evidence of financial stability, and other forms of approval for distributors of gaming equipment and supplies and for their key personnel. The revocation or denial of a license in a particular jurisdiction could adversely affect our ability to obtain or maintain licenses in other jurisdictions. In addition, laws and regulations applicable to our business could be changed or repealed. These changes could affect our business and results of operations. The market price for our shares is susceptible to significant changes in market price. Historically, the volume of trading of our shares has been relatively low. As a result, larger than average buy or sell orders on a given day, or news about us or the gaming industry, has had and may in the future have a significant impact on the trading price for our shares. The current economic conditions might cause sales to decline without warning making it difficult to reduce costs fast enough to maintain profitability. Our customers’ business (and their customers’ business) might decline more than we or our customers are forecasting making it difficult for us to reduce our expenses as fast as our sales decline. Although the Company strives to keep our expenses in line with current sales, we could experience periods where the sales decline occurs so rapidly that we are unprofitable for a period of time. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Because we want to provide you with more meaningful and useful information, this Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements that reflect our current expectations and projections about our future results, performance, prospects and opportunities. You can find many of these statements by looking for words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “estimate” and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities in 2015 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include but are not limited to the factors described under the heading “Risk Factors” above. We caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Except as otherwise required by federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or any other reason after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 