ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks are not the only ones that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 14 Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and may not sustain profitability. We incurred net losses in each quarterly and annual period since we began operations in May 1996 through the year ended December 31, 2005. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we recognized net loss of $5.6 million, net income of $3.7 million and net loss of $5.0 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $862.0 million. Considering the competitive and evolving nature of the industry in which we operate, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, and our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, including our ability to raise additional funds. Our operations have historically been cash flow negative, and we have depended on equity and debt financings to meet our cash requirements, which may not be available to us in the future on favorable terms. Historically, we have experienced negative operating cash flows and have depended upon equity and debt financings, as well as borrowings under our credit facilities, to meet our cash requirements in most quarterly and annual periods since we began our operations in May 1996. We expect to meet our cash requirements for 2008 through a combination of cash flows from operations, existing cash, cash equivalents and investments in marketable securities, and borrowings under our credit facilities. Our capital requirements depend on several factors, including the rate of market acceptance of our services, the ability to expand and retain our customer base and other factors. If our cash requirements vary materially from those currently planned, if our cost reduction initiatives are unsuccessful or have unanticipated adverse effects on our business or if we fail to generate sufficient cash flows from the sales of our services, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. We can offer no assurances that we will be able to obtain additional financing on commercially favorable terms, or at all. In addition, provisions in our credit agreement limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by our failure to obtain such funding. We might also be required to take other actions that could lessen the value of our stock in order to obtain such funding, such as issuing securities with greater rights than our common stock or borrowing money on terms that are not favorable to us. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that may prevent us from accurately reporting our financial results in a timely manner. We must maintain effective internal controls in order to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and prevent fraud. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we assess the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In connection with our evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, we identified a material weakness related to effective controls over the analysis of requests for sales credits and billing adjustments to provide timely information for management to assess the completeness, accuracy, valuation and disclosure of sales adjustments. We may also discover additional areas of our internal controls that need improvement. We discuss our efforts regarding internal controls in detail in this report under Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.” We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we take will sufficiently address and eliminate this material weakness. Remedying this material weakness, any additional deficiencies, significant deficiencies, or material weaknesses that we may identify in the future, could require us to incur significant costs, expend significant time and management resources or make other changes. We have not yet remediated this material weakness. As a result, we may be required to report in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2008 or in subsequent reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission that a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting continues to exist. Any delay or failure to design and implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation or operation may cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations or prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial reports or avoiding or detecting fraud. Disclosure of this material weakness, any failure to remediate such material weakness in a timely fashion or having or maintaining ineffective internal controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. The Internet connectivity and IP services market is highly competitive, as evidenced by recent declines in pricing for Internet connectivity services. The content delivery market is also intensely competitive and rapidly changing. We expect competition from existing competitors to continue to intensify in the future, and we may not have the financial resources, technical expertise, sales and marketing abilities, or support capabilities to compete successfully. Our competitors currently include: regional Bell operating companies that offer Internet access; global, national and regional ISPs; providers of specific applications or solutions such as content delivery, security or storage; software-based and other Internet infrastructure providers and manufacturers; and colocation and data center providers. In addition, ISPs may make technological advancements, such as the introduction of improved routing protocols to enhance the quality of their services, which could negatively impact the demand for our products and services. In addition, we will face additional competition as we expand our managed services product offerings, including competition from technology and telecommunications companies. A number of telecommunications companies and ISPs have offered or expanded their network services. Further, the ability of some of these potential competitors to bundle other services and products with their network services could place us at a competitive disadvantage. Various companies also are exploring the possibility of providing, or are currently providing, high-speed, intelligent data services that use connections to more than one network or use alternative delivery methods including the cable television infrastructure, direct broadcast satellites and wireless local loop. Many of our existing and future competitors may have greater market presence, engineering and marketing capabilities, and financial, technological and personnel resources than we have. As a result, our competitors may have significant advantages over us and may be able to respond more quickly to emerging technologies and ensuing customer demands. Increased competition and technological advancements by our competitors could materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 15 In addition, more and more businesses are deciding to develop their own solutions rather than outsource such solutions to providers like us. If we are unable to provide services that are competitive with such in-sourced solutions, we will lose customers and our business and financial results will suffer. Failure to develop new products and services, as well as enhancements to our existing services, may cause our operating results to suffer. Our industry is constantly evolving. The process of developing new services and the technologies that support them is expensive, time and labor intensive and uncertain. We may fail to understand the market demand for new services or not be able to overcome technical problems with new services. In addition, our customers’ needs may change in ways that we do not anticipate and these changes could eliminate our customers’ needs for our services and render our products and services obsolete. If we fail to develop new products and services before our competitors, we may lose market share, resulting in a decrease in our revenues and earnings. Many of our current and potential customers are pursuing emerging or unproven business models and the demand for our services and products may decline if such models are unsuccessful. The need for a content delivery network is a recent technological advancement and our customers’ business models that rely on the delivery of streaming video and other content remain unproven. These customers will not continue to purchase our products and services if their investment does not generate a sufficient return. A reduction in spending on CDN services by such customers could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. Pricing pressure could decrease our revenue and threaten the attractiveness of our premium priced services. Pricing for Internet connectivity services has declined significantly in recent years and may decline in the future. An economic downturn could further contribute to this effect. We currently charge, and expect to continue to charge, higher prices for our high performance IP services than prices charged by our competitors for their connectivity services. By bundling their services and reducing the overall cost of their solutions, certain of our competitors may be able to provide customers with reduced communications costs in connection with their Internet connectivity services or private network services, thereby significantly increasing the pressure on us to decrease our prices. Increased price competition, significant price deflation and other related competitive pressures could erode our revenue and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations if we are unable to control or reduce our costs. Because we rely on ISPs to deliver our services and have agreed with some of these providers to purchase minimum amounts of service at predetermined prices, our profitability could be adversely affected by competitive price reductions to our customers even if accompanied with an increased number of customers. In addition, in light of economic factors and technological advances, companies that require Internet connectivity have evaluated and will continue to evaluate the cost of such services, particularly high performance connectivity services such as those we currently offer. Consequently, existing and potential customers may be less willing to pay premium prices for high performance Internet connectivity services and may choose to purchase lower quality services at lower prices, which could materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to increase our revenues may cause our business and financial results to suffer. We have considerable fixed expenses and we plan to continue to incur significant expenses with the expansion of our colocation facilities. We must, therefore, generate higher revenues to maintain profitability. Numerous factors could affect our ability to increase revenue, either alone or in combination with other factors, including: · failure to increase sales of our products and services; · pricing pressures; · failure of our services or software to operate as expected; 16 · loss of customers and inability to attract new customers; · inability of a customer to pay our fees; or · network failures and any breach or unauthorized access to our network. We depend on a number of ISPs to provide Internet connectivity to our network access points. If we are unable to obtain required connectivity services on a cost-effective basis, or at all, or if such services are interrupted or terminated, our growth prospects and business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. In delivering our services, we rely on a number of Internet networks, many of which are built and operated by others. In order to provide high performance connectivity services to our customers through our network access points, we purchase connections from several ISPs. We can offer no assurances that these ISPs will continue to provide service to us on a cost-effective basis or on otherwise competitive terms, if at all, or that these providers will provide us with additional capacity to adequately meet customer demand or to expand our business. Consolidation among ISPs limits the number of vendors from which we obtain service, possibly resulting in higher network costs to us. We may be unable to establish and maintain relationships with other ISPs that may emerge or that are significant in geographic areas, such as Asia and Europe, in which we may locate our future network access points. Any of these situations could limit our growth prospects and materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend on third party suppliers for services and key elements of our network infrastructure. If we are unable to obtain products or services, such as network access loops or local loops, on favorable terms, or at all, or in the event of a failure of these suppliers to deliver their products and services as agreed, our ability to provide our services on a competitive and timely basis may be impaired and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition to depending on services from third party ISPs, we depend on other companies to supply various key elements of our infrastructure, including the network access loops between our network access points and our ISPs and the local loops between our network access points and our customers’ networks. Pricing for such network access loops and local loops has risen significantly over time, and we generally bill these charges to our customers at low or no margin. Some of our competitors have their own network access loops and local loops and are, therefore, not subject to similar availability and pricing issues. In addition, we currently purchase routers and switches from a limited number of vendors. Furthermore, we do not carry significant inventories of the products we purchase, and we have no guaranteed supply arrangements with our vendors. A loss of a significant vendor could delay any build-out of our infrastructure and increase our costs. If our limited source of suppliers fails to provide products or services that comply with evolving Internet standards or that interoperate with other products or services we use in our network infrastructure, we may be unable to meet all or a portion of our customer service commitments, which could materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A failure in the redundancies in our network operations centers, network access points or computer systems could cause a significant disruption in our IP services, and we may experience significant disruptions in our ability to service our customers. Our business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our network operations centers, our network access points and our computer and communications hardware systems and infrastructure. Interruptions could result from natural or human-caused disasters, power loss, telecommunications failure, and similar events. If we experience a problem at our network operations centers, including the failure of redundant systems, we may be unable to provide IP services to our customers, provide customer service and support or monitor our network infrastructure or network access points, any of which would seriously harm our business and operating results. Also, because we provide continuous Internet availability under our service level agreements, we may be required to issue a significant amount of customer credits as a result of such interruptions in service. These credits could negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. In addition, interruptions in service to our customers could harm our customer relations, expose us to potential lawsuits and require additional capital expenditures. 17 A significant number of our network access points are located in facilities owned and operated by third parties. In many of those arrangements, we do not have property rights similar to those customarily possessed by a lessee or subtenant but instead have lesser rights of occupancy. In certain situations, the financial condition of those parties providing occupancy to us could have an adverse impact on the continued occupancy arrangement or the level of service delivered to us under such arrangements. The increased use of high power density equipment may limit our ability to fully utilize our data centers. Customers continue to increase their use of high-density equipment, such as blade servers, in our data centers, which has significantly increased the demand for power on a per cabinet basis. The current demand for electrical power may exceed our designed capacity in these facilities. As electrical power, not space, is typically the primary factor limiting capacity in our data centers, our ability to fully utilize our data centers may be limited in these facilities. If we are unable to adequately utilize our data centers, our ability to grow our business cost-effectively could be materially and adversely affected. Our business could be harmed by prolonged electrical power outages or shortages, increased costs of energy or general availability of electrical resources. Our data centers and P-NAPs are susceptible to regional costs of power, electrical power shortages, planned or unplanned power outages or natural disasters, and limitations, especially internationally, on availability of adequate power resources. Power outages could harm our customers and our business. We attempt to limit exposure to system downtime by using backup generators and uninterruptible power systems. We may not be able to limit our exposure entirely, however, even with these protections in place, as has been the case with power outages we have experienced in the past and may experience in the future. In addition, we may not be able to pass on to our customers the increased cost of energy caused by power shortages. In each of our markets, we rely on utility companies to provide a sufficient amount of power for current and future customers. At the same time, power and cooling requirements are growing on a per unit basis. As a result, some customers are consuming an increasing amount of power per cabinet. We do not have long-term power agreements in all our markets for long-term guarantees of provisioned amounts and may face power limitations in our centers. This limitation could have a negative impact on the effective available capacity of a given center and limit our ability to grow our business, which could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any failure of our physical infrastructure or services could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could reduce our revenue and harm our business reputation, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business depends on providing customers with highly reliable service. We must protect our infrastructure and our customers’ data and their equipment located in our data centers. The services we provide in each of our data centers are subject to failure resulting from numerous factors, including: · human error; · physical or electronic security breaches; · fire, earthquake, flood, and other natural disasters; · water damage; 18 · fiber cuts; · power loss; · sabotage and vandalism; and · failure of business partners who provide our resale products. Problems at one or more of the data centers operated by us or any of our colocation providers, whether or not within our control, could result in service interruptions or significant equipment damage, which could result in difficulty maintaining our service level commitments to these customers. If we incur significant financial commitments to our customers in connection with a loss of power or we fail to meet other service level commitment obligations, our revenue reserves may not be adequate. In addition, any loss of services, equipment damage or inability to meet our service level commitment obligations could reduce the confidence of our customers and could consequently impair our ability to obtain and retain customers, which would adversely affect both our ability to generate revenues and our operating results. Furthermore, we are dependent upon ISPs and telecommunications carriers in the United States, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, some of whom have experienced significant system failures and electrical outages in the past. Users of our services may experience difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems and services. If for any reason, these providers fail to provide the required services, our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. No prevention or defense against denial of service attacks exists. During a prolonged denial of service attack, Internet service may not be available for several hours, thus negatively impacting hosted customers’ on-line business transactions. Affected customers might file claims against us under such circumstances, and our property and liability insurance may not be adequate to cover these claims. Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate, which could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. We have experienced fluctuations in our results of operations on a quarterly and annual basis. The fluctuation in our operating results may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We expect to experience significant fluctuations in our operating results in the foreseeable future due to a variety of factors, including: · competition and the introduction of new services by our competitors; · continued pricing pressures resulting from competitors’ strategies or excess bandwidth supply; · fluctuations in the demand and sales cycle for our services; · fluctuations in the market for qualified sales and other personnel; · changes in the prices for Internet connectivity we pay to ISPs; · the cost and availability of adequate public utilities, including power; · our ability to obtain local loop connections to our network access points at favorable prices; · integration of people, operations, products, and technologies of acquired businesses; and · general economic conditions. 19 In addition, fluctuations in our results of operations may arise from strategic decisions we have made or may make with respect to the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures such as those associated with the expansion of our colocation facilities, the deployment of additional network access points and the terms of our network connectivity purchase agreements. These and other factors discussed in this annual report on Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, a relatively large portion of our expenses are fixed in the short-term, particularly with respect to lease and personnel expense, depreciation and amortization and interest expense. Our results of operations, therefore, are particularly sensitive to fluctuations in revenue. Because our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future, we can offer no assurance that the results of any particular period are an indication of future performance in our business operations. Fluctuations in our results of operations could have a negative impact on our ability to raise additional capital and execute our business plan. Our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our stock. We have acquired and may acquire other businesses, and these acquisitions involve numerous risks. We may pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses, products, services, and technologies to expand our geographic footprint, enhance our existing services, expand our service offerings, and enlarge our customer base. If we complete future acquisitions, we may be required to incur or assume additional debt, make capital expenditures or issue additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock as consideration, which would dilute our existing stockholders’ ownership interest and may adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to grow through acquisitions involves a number of additional risks, including the following: · the ability to identify and consummate complementary acquisitions; · the possibility that we may not be able to integrate the operations, personnel, technologies, products, and services of the acquired companies in a timely and efficient manner; · diversion of management’s attention from other ongoing business concerns; · insufficient revenue to offset significant unforeseen costs and increased expenses associated with the acquisitions; · challenges in completing projects associated with in-process research and development being conducted by the acquired businesses; · risks associated with our entrance into markets in which we have little or no prior experience and where competitors have a stronger market presence; · deferral of purchasing decisions by current and potential customers as they evaluate the likelihood of success of our acquisitions; · incurring or assuming contingent liabilities and amortization expense for acquired intangible assets; · incurring acquisition liabilities as a result of integrating acquired businesses; · difficulties in successfully integrating the management teams and employees of both companies; and · loss of key employees of the acquired companies. Failure to effectively manage our growth through acquisitions could adversely affect our growth prospects, business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 20 The terms of our existing credit agreement impose restrictions upon us. The terms of our existing credit agreement impose operating and financial restrictions on us and require us to meet certain financial tests. These restrictions may also have a negative impact on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by significantly limiting or prohibiting us from engaging in certain transactions. The credit agreement contains certain covenants, including covenants that restrict our ability to incur further indebtedness. The failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the credit agreement. Any defaults, if not waived, could result in the lender ceasing to make loans or extending credit to us, accelerating or declaring all or any obligations immediately due, or taking possession of or liquidating collateral. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance the credit agreement on terms that are acceptable to us, which could materially and adversely impact our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As of December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with the various loan covenants required by the credit agreement. Our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks that may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. As of December 31, 2007, we held $7.2 million of auction rate securities classified as short-term investments. Auction rate securities are variable rate bonds tied to short-term interest rates with maturities on the face of the securities in excess of 90 days and have interest rate resets through a modified Dutch auction, at predetermined short-term intervals, usually every 7, 28 or 35 days. Although these securities are issued and rated as long term bonds, they are priced and traded as short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the interest rate resets. The underlying assets of our auction rate securities are state-issued student and educational loans that are substantially backed by the federal government and carried AAA/Aaa ratings as of December 31, 2007. The Dutch auctions have in the past provided a liquid market for these types of securities. With the liquidity issues experienced in global credit and capital markets, auctions of each of the auction rate securities that we hold failed subsequent to December 31, 2007, as the amount of securities submitted for sale exceeded the amount of purchase orders. If the uncertainties in the credit and capital market continue, these markets deteriorate further or the various rating agencies downgrade any of the auction rare securities that we hold, we may be required to adjust the value of these investments through an impairment charge to earnings if the fair value of these securities has declined to below their cost and such decline is assessed to be “other than temporary” under SFAS No. 115. Further, we may not be able to liquidate these investments until successful auctions occur, a buyer outside the auction process is found, the issuer calls these debt securities, or the securities mature. Continued overcapacity in the Internet connectivity and IP services market may result in our recording additional significant restructuring charges and goodwill impairment. We have undertaken significant operational restructurings and have taken restructuring and impairment charges and recorded total restructuring costs of $11.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and less than $1.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. We may incur additional restructuring charges or adjustments in the future. Such additional restructuring charges or adjustments could materially and adversely affect our business, net profit and stockholders’ equity. Adverse experience in the CDN services market may result in our recording additional goodwill impairment charges. Upon completion of our acquisition of VitalStream, we recorded $154.8 million in goodwill. We tested this goodwill in August of 2007 as part of our annual testing, and concluded that such goodwill had not been impaired. We can offer no assurances, however, that this goodwill will remain unimpaired. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our net profit and stockholders’ equity. 21 If we are unable to deploy new network access points or do not adequately control expense associated with the deployment of new network access points, our results of operations could be adversely affected. As part of our strategy, we intend to continue to expand our network access points, particularly into new geographic markets. We will face various risks associated with identifying, obtaining and integrating attractive network access point sites, negotiating leases for centers on competitive terms, cost estimation errors or overruns, delays in connecting with local exchanges, equipment and material delays or shortages, the inability to obtain necessary permits on a timely basis, if at all, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and all of which could delay the deployment of a new network access point. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to open and operate new network access points on a timely or profitable basis. Deployment of new network access points will increase operating expense, including expense associated with hiring, training, retaining, and managing new employees, provisioning capacity from ISPs, purchasing new equipment, implementing new systems, leasing additional real estate, and incurring additional depreciation expense. If we are unable to control our costs as we expand in geographically dispersed locations, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our international operations may not be successful. We have limited experience operating internationally and have only recently begun to achieve successful international experiences. We currently have network access points in London, England, Hong Kong, Singapore, and Sydney, Australia. We also participate in a joint venture with NTT-ME Corporation and Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation, or NTT Holdings, that operates a network access point in Tokyo and Osaka, Japan and maintain a marketing agreement with Telefonica USA, which provides us with further access in Europe and access to the Latin American market. As part of our strategy to expand our geographic markets, we may develop or acquire network access points or complementary businesses in additional international markets. The risks associated with expansion of our international business operations include: · challenges in establishing and maintaining relationships with foreign customers as well as foreign ISPs and local vendors, including data center and local network operators; · challenges in staffing and managing network operations centers and network access points across disparate geographic areas; · limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; · challenges in reducing operating expense or other costs required by local laws; · exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; · costs of customizing network access points for foreign countries and customers; · protectionist laws and practices favoring local competition; · political and economic instability; and · compliance with governmental regulations. We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to address the risks associated with our international operations, which may limit our international sales growth and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 22 Disputes with vendors regarding the delivery of services may materially impact our results of operations and cash flows. In delivering our services, we rely on a number of Internet network, telecommunication and other vendors. We work directly with these vendors to provide services such as establishing, modifying or discontinuing services for our customers. Because of the volume of activity, billing disputes inevitably arise. These disputes typically stem from disagreements concerning the starting and ending dates of service, quoted rates, usage, and various other factors. We research and discuss disputed costs, both in the vendors’ favor and our favor, with vendors on an ongoing basis until ultimately resolved. We record the cost and a liability based on our estimate of the most likely outcome of the dispute. These estimates are periodically reviewed by management and modified in light of new information or developments, if any. Because estimates regarding disputed costs include assessments of uncertain outcomes, such estimates are inherently vulnerable to changes due to unforeseen circumstances that could materially and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend upon our key employees and may be unable to attract or retain sufficient numbers of qualified personnel. Our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our executive management team and other key employees. To the extent we are able to expand our operations and deploy additional network access points, we may need to increase our workforce. Accordingly, our future success depends on our ability to attract, hire, train, and retain highly skilled management, technical, sales, marketing, and customer support personnel. Competition for qualified employees is intense, and we compete for qualified employees with companies that may have greater financial resources than we have. Our employment security plan with our executive officers provide that either party may terminate their employment at any time. Consequently, we may not be successful in attracting, hiring, training, and retaining the people we need, which would seriously impede our ability to implement our business strategy. Our senior management team has had limited time to develop a working relationship with each other and may not be able to manage our business effectively. Our Chief Operating Officer, General Counsel, Chief Technology Officer, and Chief Strategy Officer have been hired since March 2007, and we are currently seeking a Chief Financial Officer. This limited experience working together could harm our management team’s ability to quickly and efficiently respond to problems and effectively manage our business. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, we may lose rights to some of our most valuable assets. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret, and other intellectual property law, nondisclosure agreements, and other protective measures to protect our proprietary rights. We also utilize unpatented proprietary know-how and trade secrets and employ various methods to protect such intellectual property. Taken as a whole, we believe our intellectual property rights are significant and that the loss of all or a substantial portion of such rights could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We can offer no assurance that our intellectual property protection measures will be sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, the laws of many foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States. From time to time, third parties have or may assert infringement claims against us or against our customers in connection with their use of our products or services. In addition, we rely on the intellectual property of others. We may desire or be required to renew or to obtain licenses from these other parties in order to further develop and market commercially viable products or services effectively. We can offer no assurance that any necessary licenses will be available on reasonable terms. We may face litigation and liability due to claims of infringement of third party intellectual property rights. The Internet services industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. From time to time, third parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. Any claims that our products or services infringe or may infringe proprietary rights of third parties, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could significantly harm our operating results. In addition, our customer agreements generally provide for us to indemnify our customers for expenses and liabilities resulting from claimed infringement of patents or copyrights of third parties, subject to certain limitations. If an infringement claim against us were to be successful, and we were not able to obtain a license to the relevant technology or a substitute technology on acceptable terms or redesign our products or services to avoid infringement, our ability to compete successfully in our competitive market would be materially impaired. 23 We may become involved in other litigation that may adversely affect us. In the ordinary course of business, we are or may become involved in litigation, administrative proceedings and governmental proceedings. Such matters can be time-consuming, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. Furthermore, the results of any such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Risks Related to Our Industry We cannot predict with certainty the future evolution of the high performance Internet connectivity market, and therefore the role of our products and services. We face the risk that the market for high performance Internet connectivity services might develop more slowly or differently than currently projected, or that our services may not achieve continued widespread market acceptance. Furthermore, we may be unable to market and sell our services successfully and cost-effectively to a sufficiently large number of customers. We typically charge a premium for our services, which may affect market acceptance of our services or adversely impact the rate of market acceptance. We believe the danger of non-acceptance is particularly acute during economic slowdowns, which exert significant pricing pressure on ISPs. If the Internet becomes subject to a form of central management, or if ISPs establish an economic settlement arrangement regarding the exchange of traffic between Internet networks, the demand for our IP services could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to respond effectively and on a timely basis to rapid technological change, we may lose or fail to establish a competitive advantage in our market. Our industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, industry standards and customer needs, as well as by frequent new product and service introductions. New technologies and industry standards have the potential to replace or provide lower cost alternatives to our services. The adoption of such new technologies or industry standards could render our existing services obsolete and unmarketable. Our failure to anticipate the prevailing standard, to adapt our technology to any changes in the prevailing standard or the failure of a common standard to emerge could materially and adversely affect our business. Our pursuit of necessary technological advances may require substantial time and expense, and we may be unable to successfully adapt our network and services to alternative access devices and technologies. Our network and software are subject to potential security breaches and similar threats that could result in our liability for damages and harm our reputation. A number of widespread and disabling attacks on public and private networks have occurred recently. The number and severity of these attacks may increase in the future as network assailants take advantage of outdated software, security breaches or incompatibility between or among networks. Computer viruses, intrusions and similar disruptive problems could cause us to be liable for damages under agreements with our customers, and our reputation could suffer, thereby deterring potential customers from working with us. Security problems or other attacks caused by third parties could lead to interruptions and delays, or to the cessation of service to our customers. Furthermore, inappropriate use of the network by third parties could also jeopardize the security of confidential information stored in our computer systems and in those of our customers and could expose us to liability under unsolicited commercial e-mail, or “spam,” regulations. In the past, third parties have occasionally circumvented some of these industry-standard measures. We can offer no assurance that the measures we implement will not be circumvented. Our efforts to eliminate computer viruses and alleviate other security problems, or any circumvention of those efforts, may result in increased costs, interruptions, delays or cessation of service to our customers, which could hurt our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 24 Terrorist activity throughout the world and military action to counter terrorism could adversely impact our business. The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility may have an adverse effect on business, financial and general economic conditions internationally. Effects from any future terrorist activity, including cyber terrorism, may, in turn, increase our costs due to the need to provide enhanced security, which would adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These circumstances may also damage or destroy the Internet infrastructure and may materially and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, our ability to raise capital and the operation and maintenance of our network access points. If governments modify or increase regulation of the Internet, the provision of our services could become more costly. International bodies and federal, state and local governments have adopted a number of laws and regulations that affect the Internet and are likely to continue to seek to implement additional laws and regulations. For example, a federal law regulating spam was enacted in 2003. In addition, federal and state agencies are actively considering regulation of various aspects of the Internet, including taxation of transactions, and imposing access fees for voice over IP, or VoIP. The Federal Communications Commission and state agencies also review the regulatory requirements, if any, that should be applicable to VoIP. If we seek to offer additional products and services, we could be required to obtain certain, additional authorizations from regulatory agencies. We may not be able to obtain such authorizations in a timely manner, or at all, and conditions could be imposed upon such authorization that may not be favorable to us. Congress recently extended the Internet Tax Freedom Act, which placed a moratorium against certain state and local taxation of Internet access, until November 1, 2014. Pursuant to this moratorium, most of our services are not subject to state and local taxation. In addition, laws relating to the liability of private network operators and information carried on or disseminated through their networks are unsettled, both in the United States and abroad. Network operators have been sued in the past based on the content of material disseminated through their networks. We may become subject to legal claims such as defamation, invasion of privacy and copyright infringement in connection with content stored on or distributed through our network. Also, our reputation could suffer as a result of our perceived association with the type of content that some of our customers deliver. The adoption of any future laws or regulations might decrease the growth of the Internet, decrease demand for our services, impose taxes or other costly technical requirements, regulate the Internet similar to the regulation of traditional telecommunications services, or otherwise increase the cost of doing business on the Internet in some other manner. Any of these actions could have a significantly harmful effect on our customers or us. Moreover, the nature of any new laws and regulations and the interpretation of applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing intellectual property ownership and infringement, copyright, trademark, trade secret, obscenity, libel, employment, personal privacy, and other issues is uncertain and developing. We cannot predict the impact, if any, that future regulation or regulatory changes may have on our business. If our ability to deliver media files in certain formats is restricted or becomes cost-prohibitive, demand for our services would decline and our financial results would suffer. Our CDN products and services depend on our ability to deliver media content in all major formats. If our legal right to store and deliver content in certain formats, like Adobe Flash or Windows Media, for example, was limited, we could not serve our customers and the demand for our services would decline. Owners of proprietary content formats may be able to block, restrict or impose fees or other costs on our use of such formats, leading to additional expenses or prevent our delivery of this type of content, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. 25 Risks Related to Our Capital Stock Our common stockholders may experience significant dilution, which could depress the market price of our common stock. Holders of our stock options and warrants to purchase common stock may exercise their options or warrants to purchase our common stock, which would increase the number of outstanding shares of common stock in the future. As of December 31, 2007, options to purchase an aggregate of 3.2 million shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $13.29 were outstanding, and warrants to purchase approximately 34,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $9.50 per share were outstanding. Also, the vesting of 0.7 million outstanding restricted stock awards will increase the weighted average number of shares used for calculating diluted net income per share. We issued approximately 12.2 million shares of our common stock to VitalStream’s stockholders in connection with the acquisition in February of 2007. We also assumed outstanding options for the purchase of shares of VitalStream common stock, converted into options to purchase approximately 1.5 million shares of Internap common stock. Furthermore, greater than expected capital requirements could require us to obtain additional financing through the issuance of securities, which could be in the form of common stock or preferred stock or other securities having greater rights than our common stock. The issuance of our common stock or other securities, whether upon the exercise of options and warrants, the future vesting and issuance of stock awards to our executives and employees, or in financing transactions, could depress the market price of the common stock by increasing the number of shares of common stock or other securities outstanding on an absolute basis or as a result of the timing of additional shares of common stock becoming available on the market. Provisions of our charter documents, our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, as amended, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could make an acquisition more difficult, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, our Board of Directors recently adopted a stockholder rights plan that renders the consummation of an acquisition without the approval of the Board of Directors more difficult. Our stock price may be volatile. The market for our equity securities has been extremely volatile. Our stock price could suffer in the future as a result of any failure to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors about our results of operations from quarter to quarter. The following factors could cause the price of our common stock in the public market to fluctuate significantly: · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly and annual results of operations; · changes in market valuations of companies in the Internet connectivity and services industry; · changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; · fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; 26 · future issuances of common stock or other securities; · the addition or departure of key personnel; and · announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances. Changes in financial accounting standards may adversely affect our reported results of operations. New accounting pronouncements and interpretations have occurred and may occur in the future that adversely affect on our reported results. For example, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) “Share Based Payment,” or SFAS No. 123R, required us to account for our stock-based awards as a compensation expense and, as a result, our net income and net income per share in subsequent periods has been significantly reduced. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 