Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following factors and other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, including ‘‘Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.’’ Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our 16 Table of Contents business and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could in turn materially adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our significant level of debt and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness may adversely affect our financial and operating activity or ability to incur additional debt. In prior years we incurred substantial indebtedness to finance our business acquisitions, including indebtedness incurred in connection with our 2005 acquisition of The Titan Corporation (‘‘Titan’’). At December 31, 2006, we had approximately $4,550 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt, excluding $76.8 million of outstanding letters of credit under our senior credit facility. In addition, we had additional borrowing capacity under our senior credit facility, after reductions for outstanding letters of credit, of $923.2 million at December 31, 2006. In the future, we may borrow more money, subject to limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness and to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance. We do not have complete control over our future performance because it is subject to economic, political, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors affecting the aerospace and defense industry. It is possible that in the future our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to allow us to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If this situation occurs, we may have to sell assets, restructure debt or obtain additional equity capital. We may not be able to do so in accordance with the restrictions contained in our debt agreements. Our level of indebtedness has important consequences to us. These consequences may include: • requiring a substantial portion of our net cash flow from operations to be used to pay interest and principal on our debt and therefore be unavailable for other purposes, including acquisitions, capital expenditures, paying dividends to our shareholders, repurchasing shares of our common stock, research and development and other investments; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, investments or other expenditures, which, in each case, may limit our ability to carry out our acquisition strategy; • higher interest expenses due to increases in interest rates on our borrowings that have variable interest rates; • heightening our vulnerability to downturns in our business or in the general economy and restricting us from making acquisitions, introducing new technologies and products or exploiting business opportunities; and • impacting debt covenants that limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay cash dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock. Failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness. Additionally, on December 31, 2006, we had $9,638.8 million of contractual obligations (including outstanding indebtedness). For a detailed listing of the components of our contractual obligations, see ‘‘Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Contractual Obligations’’ on pages 49-50. Our business acquisition strategy involves risks, and we may not successfully implement our strategy. We seek to selectively acquire companies or assets that complement or extend our existing businesses. We may not be able to continue to identify acquisition candidates on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we make additional acquisitions, we may not realize the benefits anticipated from these acquisitions, including cost synergies and improving margins. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, since such additional financing could be restricted by the terms of our debt agreements. 17 Table of Contents The process of integrating the operations of acquired businesses, including recent business acquisitions, into our existing operations may result in unforeseen difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. Possible future business acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense and contingent liabilities, each of which could result in an increase to our already significant level of outstanding debt, as well as more restrictive covenants. We consider and execute strategic acquisitions on an ongoing basis and may be evaluating acquisitions or engage in acquisition negotiations at any given time. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and joint venture transactions, but we have not entered into any other agreements with respect to any material transactions at this time. Furthermore, in certain of our business acquisitions we have assumed all claims against and liabilities of the acquired business, including both asserted or unasserted claims and liabilities. We rely on sales to U.S. Government entities, and the loss of a significant number of our contracts would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Our sales are predominantly derived from contracts (revenue arrangements) with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government. The loss of all or a substantial portion of our sales to the U.S. Government would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. At December 31, 2006, we had approximately 1,900 contracts (revenue arrangements) with individual estimated contract values in excess of $1.0 million. Approximately 80%, or $10.0 billion, of our sales for the year ended December 31, 2006 were made directly or indirectly to U.S. Government agencies, including the DoD. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our largest contract was the Linguist Contract and it represented 4.9% of our sales, and sales from our five largest programs amounted to $1,951.8 million, or 15.6% of our sales. As discussed above under ‘‘Major Customers’’, in December 2006, we lost the re-competition of the Linguist Contract when our proposal for the TIMS contract was not selected by INSCOM. We filed a protest challenging the selection of the TIMS contract with the GAO. The GAO’s review of our protest is scheduled to be completed on or before April 5, 2007. A substantial majority of our total sales are for products and services under contracts with various agencies and procurement offices of the DoD or with prime contractors to the DoD. Although these various agencies, procurement offices and prime contractors are subject to common budgetary pressures and other factors, our customers exercise independent purchasing decisions. Because of this concentration of contracts, if a significant number of our DoD contracts and subcontracts are simultaneously delayed or cancelled for budgetary, performance or other reasons, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. In addition to contract cancellations and declines in agency budgets, our backlog and future financial results, may be adversely affected by: • curtailment of the U.S. Government’s use of technology or other services and products providers, including curtailment due to government budget reductions and related fiscal matters; • developments in Iraq, Afghanistan or other geopolitical developments that affect demand for our products and services; • our ability to hire and retain personnel to meet increasing demand for our services; and • technological developments that impact purchasing decisions or our competitive position. These or other factors could cause U.S. defense and other federal agencies to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts or not to exercise options to renew contracts or limit our ability to obtain new contract awards. Any of these actions or any of the other actions described above could significantly reduce our revenues, operating income and cash flows. Our results of operations and cash flows, as well as our valuation of contracts in process are substantially affected by our mix of fixed-price, cost reimbursable and time-and-material type contracts. A large portion of our contracts (revenue arrangements) require us to design, develop, manufacture, modify, upgrade, test and integrate complex aerospace and electronic equipment, and to provide related engineering and technical services according to the buyer’s specifications. These sales are transacted using 18 Table of Contents written revenue arrangements, or contracts, which are generally either fixed-price, cost-reimbursable or time-and-material. For a description of our revenue recognition policies, see ‘‘Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies.’’ For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 50.2% of our sales were generated from fixed-price type contracts, approximately 31.1% of our sales were generated from cost-reimbursable type contracts and approximately 18.7% of our sales were generated from time-and-material type contracts. Substantially all of our cost-reimbursable and time-and-material type contracts are with the U.S. Government, primarily with the DoD. Substantially all of our sales to commercial customers are transacted under fixed-price sales arrangements, and are included in our fixed-price type contract sales. See ‘‘Part I’’ — Item 1 — Contracts’’ above for a detailed description of fixed-price type, cost-reimbursable type and time and material type contracts. The impact of revisions in profit (loss) estimates for all types of contracts are recognized on a cumulative catch-up basis in the period in which the revisions are made. Provisions for anticipated losses on contracts are recorded in the period in which they become evident. Amounts representing contract change orders or claims are included in sales only when they can be reliably estimated and their realization is reasonably assured. The revisions in contract estimates, if significant, can materially affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as our valuations of contracts in process. Our government contracts entail certain risks. A decline in or a redirection of the U.S. defense budget could result in a material decrease in our sales, earnings and cash flows. Our government contracts are primarily dependent upon the U.S. defense budget. The DoD budget has increased significantly in recent years and, based on the Bush Administration’s defense budget request for fiscal year 2008, the DoD budget would continue to increase in fiscal year 2008. However, the future DoD budgets could be negatively affected by several factors, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Government’s budget deficits, a change in spending priorities and the costs of sustaining the U.S. military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, which could cause the DoD budget to remain unchanged or to decline. A significant decline in or redirection of U.S. military expenditures in the future could result in a material decrease to our sales, earnings and cash flows. The loss or significant reduction in government funding of a large program in which we participate could also result in a material decrease to our future sales, earnings and cash flows. U.S. Government contracts are also conditioned upon the continuing approval by Congress of the amount of necessary spending. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a September 30 fiscal year basis, even though contract periods of performance may extend over many years. Consequently, at the beginning of a major program, the contract is usually partially funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as appropriations are made by Congress for future fiscal years. Our government contracts contain unfavorable termination provisions and are subject to audit and modification. If a termination right is exercised by the government, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Companies engaged primarily in supplying defense-related equipment and services to U.S. Government agencies are subject to certain business risks peculiar to the defense industry. These risks include the ability of the U.S. Government to unilaterally: • suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; • terminate existing contracts; • reduce the value of existing contracts; • audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs; and • control and potentially prohibit the export of our products. All of our U.S. Government contracts can be terminated by the U.S. Government either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the contract. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit 19 Table of Contents on the work completed prior to termination. Termination for default provisions provide for the contractor to be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source. Our contracts with foreign governments generally contain similar provisions relating to termination at the convenience of the customer. The U.S. Government may review our costs and performance on their contracts, as well as our accounting and general business practices. Based on the results of such audits, the U.S. Government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. In addition, under U.S. Government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be reimbursable under U.S. Government contracts. We may not be able to win competitively awarded contracts or receive required licenses to export our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and future prospects. Our government contracts are subject to competitive bidding. We obtain many of our U.S. Government contracts through a competitive bidding process. We may not be able to continue to win competitively awarded contracts. In addition, awarded contracts may not generate sales sufficient to result in our profitability. We are also subject to risks associated with the following: • the frequent need to bid on programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and/or cost overruns; • the substantial time, effort and experience required to prepare bids and proposals for competitively awarded contracts that may not be awarded to us; • design complexity and rapid technological obsolescence; and • the constant need for design improvement. In addition to these U.S. Government contract risks, we are required to obtain licenses from U.S. Government agencies to export many of our products and systems. Additionally, we are not permitted to export some of our products. Failure to receive required licenses would eliminate our ability to sell our products outside the United States. We are subject to government investigations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We are from time to time subject to governmental investigations relating to our operations. We are currently cooperating with the U.S. Government on several investigations, including but not limited to, an investigation regarding the Combat Survivor/Evader Locator (CSEL) program and an investigation by the Department of Justice Criminal Antitrust Division regarding information technology services performed for the Air Force. For a discussion of these matters, see Note 16 to our audited consolidated financial statements. We are subject to the risks of current and future legal proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. At any given time, we are a defendant in various material legal proceedings and litigation matters arising in the ordinary course of business, including litigation, claims and assessments that have been asserted against acquired businesses, which we have assumed. Although we maintain insurance policies, we can make no assurance that this insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material judgments and expenses related to potential future claims or that these levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices or at all. A significant judgment against us, arising out of any of our current or future legal proceedings and litigation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. For a discussion of the material litigation to which we are currently a party, see Note 16 to our audited consolidated financial statements. 20 Table of Contents Our inability to keep pace with rapidly evolving products and service offerings and technological change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The rapid change of technology is a key feature of most of the markets in which our products, services and systems oriented businesses operate. To succeed in the future, we will need to continue to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. Historically, our technology has been developed through customer-funded and internally funded research and development and through certain business acquisitions. We may not be able to continue to maintain comparable levels of research and development or successfully complete such acquisitions. In the past we have allocated substantial funds to capital expenditures, programs and other investments. This practice will continue to be required in the future. Even so, we may not be able to successfully identify new opportunities and may not have the needed financial resources to develop new products in a timely or cost-effective manner. At the same time, products and technologies developed by others may render our products, services and systems obsolete or non-competitive. Intense competition in the industries in which our businesses operate could limit our ability to attract and retain customers. The defense industry and the other industries in which our businesses operate, and the market for defense applications, is highly competitive. We expect that the DoD’s increased use of commercial off-the-shelf products and components in military equipment will continue to encourage new competitors to enter the market. We also expect that competition for original equipment manufacturing business will increase due to the continued emergence of merchant suppliers. Our ability to compete for defense contracts largely depends on some of the following factors: • the effectiveness and innovation of our technologies and research and development programs; • our ability to offer better program performance than our competitors at a lower cost; • our ability to retain our employees and hire new ones, particularly those who have U.S. Government security clearances; • our historical technical and schedule performance; and • the capabilities of our facilities, equipment and personnel to undertake the programs for which we compete. We are the incumbent supplier or have been the sole provider for many years for certain programs. We refer to such contracts as ‘‘sole-source’’ contracts. In such cases, there may be other suppliers who have the capability to compete for the programs involved, but they can only enter or re-enter the market if the customer chooses to reopen or recompete the particular program to competition. The majority of our sales are derived from contracts with the U.S. Government and its prime contractors, which are principally awarded on the basis of negotiations or competitive bids. Additionally, some of our competitors are larger than us and have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. Our debt agreements restrict our ability to finance our future operations and, if we are unable to meet our financial ratios, could cause our existing debt to be accelerated. Our debt agreements contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • sell assets; • incur more indebtedness; • repay certain indebtedness; • pay dividends on the common stock of L-3 Holdings; • repurchase shares of L-3 Holdings’ common stock; • make certain investments or business acquisitions; • repurchase or redeem capital stock; • make certain capital expenditures; 21 Table of Contents • engage in business mergers or consolidations; and • engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates. These restrictions could impair our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. In addition, some of our debt agreements also require us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios, including (1) total consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to total consolidated cash interest expense and (2) total consolidated funded indebtedness less designated cash balances to total consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Our ability to comply with these ratios and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of these agreements or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or covenants could result in a default under those debt agreements. In the event of any such default, the lenders under those debt agreements could elect to: • declare all outstanding debt, accrued interest and fees to be due and immediately payable; • require us to apply all of our available cash to repay our outstanding senior debt; and • prevent us from making debt service payments on our other debt. If we are unable to attract and retain key management and personnel, we may become unable to operate our business effectively. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our management, including Mr. Michael T. Strianese, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified management and technical personnel, including employees who have U.S. Government security clearances, particularly clearances of top-secret and above. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies for members of our management. We face competition for management and technical personnel from other companies and organizations. Failure to attract and retain such personnel would damage our prospects. Environmental laws and regulation may subject us to significant liability. Our operations are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local as well as certain foreign environmental laws and regulations within the countries in which we operate relating to the discharge, storage, treatment, handling, disposal and remediation of certain materials, substances and wastes used in our operations. New laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements may require us to incur a significant amount of additional costs in the future and could decrease the amount of free cash flow available to us for other purposes, including capital expenditures, research and development and other investments and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Termination of our backlog of orders could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. We currently have a backlog of orders, primarily under contracts with the U.S. Government. Our total funded backlog was $8,743.0 million at December 31, 2006. The U.S. Government may unilaterally modify or terminate its contracts. Accordingly, most of our backlog could be modified or terminated by the U.S. Government, which would negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. Our sales to certain foreign customers expose us to risks associated with operating internationally. For the year ended December 31, 2006, sales to foreign customers, excluding our foreign sales made under foreign military sales (FMS) agreements directly between the U.S. Government and allied foreign governments represented approximately 11.8% of our consolidated sales. Consequently, our businesses are subject to a variety of risks that are specific to international operations, including the following: • export regulations that could erode profit margins or restrict exports; • compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA); 22 Table of Contents • the burden and cost of compliance with foreign laws, treaties and technical standards and changes in those regulations; • contract award and funding delays; • potential restrictions on transfers of funds; • foreign currency fluctuations; • import and export duties and value added taxes; • transportation delays and interruptions; • uncertainties arising from foreign local business practices and cultural considerations; and • potential military conflicts and political risks. While we have and will continue to adopt measures to reduce the potential impact of losses resulting from the risks of our foreign business, we cannot ensure that such measures will be adequate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 