ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a variety of risks, including the risks described below as well as adverse business and market conditions and risks associated with foreign operations. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below which we have not determined to be material may also impair our business operations. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information in this report, including information contained in the "Business," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" sections. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, and we may not be able to achieve our goals. Such events may cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN MAY LEAD TO LESS DEMAND FOR OUR SERVICES. If the general level of economic activity slows, our ultimate customers may delay or cancel new projects. For example, economic downturns in the past have led to increased bankruptcies and pricing pressures. These factors contribute to the delay and cancellation of projects, especially with respect to more profitable private sector work, and impact our operations and ability to continue to grow at historical levels. A number of other factors, including financing conditions for the industries we serve, could further adversely affect our ultimate customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for past services. In addition, consolidation, competition or capital constraints in the industries of our ultimate customers may result in reduced spending by such customers. If economic conditions do not continue to improve, or if there is another economic downturn, reducing in particular the availability of more profitable private sector work, our results of operations are likely to be adversely affected. AN INCREASE IN THE PRICE OF CERTAIN MATERIALS USED IN OUR BUSINESSES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESSES. We are exposed to market risk of fluctuations in certain commodity prices of materials such as copper and steel utilized in both our construction and facilities services operations. We are also exposed to increases in energy prices, particularly as they relate to gasoline prices for our fleet of over 6,000 vehicles. OUR INDUSTRY IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE. Our industry is served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies, a few public companies and several large regional companies. In addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry into some of our businesses. As a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. Competition in our industry depends on numerous factors, including price. Certain of our competitors have lower overhead cost structures and, therefore, are able to provide their services at lower rates than we are currently able to provide. In addition, some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. We cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources necessary to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within the industry or maintain a customer base at current levels. We may also face competition from the in-house service organizations of existing or prospective customers, particularly with respect to facilities services. Many of our customers employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services that we do. We cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource facilities services in the future. OUR BUSINESS MAY ALSO BE AFFECTED BY ADVERSE WEATHER CONDITIONS. Adverse weather conditions, particularly during the winter season, could affect our ability to perform efficient work outdoors in certain regions of the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada. As a result, we could experience reduced revenue in the first and fourth quarters of each year. In addition, cooler than normal temperatures during the summer months could reduce the need for our services, and we may experience reduced revenues and profitability during the period such weather conditions persist. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE AFFECTED BY THE WORK ENVIRONMENT. We perform our work under a variety of conditions, including but not limited to, difficult terrain, difficult site conditions and busy urban centers where delivery of materials and availability of labor may be impacted, clean-room environments where strict procedures must be followed and sites which may have been exposed to environmental hazards. Performing work under these conditions can negatively affect efficiency and, therefore, our profitability. OUR DEPENDENCE UPON FIXED PRICE CONTRACTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a significant portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts. We must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for fixed price contracts. The cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated. These variations, along with other risks, inherent in performing fixed price contracts, may cause actual revenues and gross profits from projects to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs can have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year. 5 WE COULD INCUR ADDITIONAL COSTS TO COVER GUARANTEES. In some instances, we guarantee completion of a project by a specific date, achievement of certain performance standards or performance of our services at a certain standard of quality. If we subsequently fail to meet such guarantees, we may be held responsible for costs resulting from such failure. Such failure could result in our payment in the form of contractually agreed upon liquidated or other damages. To the extent that any of these events occur, the total costs of a project could exceed the original estimated costs, and we would experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss. MANY OF OUR CONTRACTS, ESPECIALLY OUR FACILITIES SERVICES CONTRACTS, MAY BE CANCELED ON SHORT NOTICE, AND WE MAY BE UNSUCCESSFUL IN REPLACING SUCH CONTRACTS IF THEY ARE CANCELED OR AS THEY ARE COMPLETED OR EXPIRE. We could experience a decrease in revenue, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur: o customers cancel a significant number of contracts; o we fail to win a significant number of our existing contracts upon rebid; o we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or o we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenue. We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: o expand the range of services offered to customers to address their evolving needs; o attract new customers; and o increase the number of projects performed for existing customers. In addition, our customers may reduce the number or size of projects available to us due to their inability to obtain capital or pay for services provided. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. If we are not successful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand operations or grow our business. THE DEPARTURE OF KEY PERSONNEL COULD DISRUPT OUR BUSINESS. We depend on the continued efforts of our senior management. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified executives, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. However, we have executive development and management succession plans in place in order to minimize any such negative impact. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED EMPLOYEES. Our ability to grow and maintain productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy or that labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues. OUR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS COULD RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT LIABILITIES. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, PCBs and fuel storage. A violation of such laws and regulations may expose us to liabilities, including remediation costs and fines. We own and lease many facilities. Some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks which may be above or below ground. If these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines. As a part of our business, we also install fuel storage tanks and are sometimes required to deal with hazardous materials, all of which may expose us to environmental liability. In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could harm our financial condition and results of operations. In certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such clean-up and other obligations and liabilities that we believe are adequate to cover such obligations and liabilities. However, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of such costs or third-party indemnitors may default on their obligations. In addition, unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business operations or financial condition. Further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify, or be indemnified for, all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business. ADVERSE RESOLUTION OF LITIGATION MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS OR FINANCIAL CONDITION. We are a party to lawsuits most of which are in the normal course of our business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and in some cases, on our reputation. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings for more information regarding certain lawsuits in which we are involved. 6 OPPORTUNITIES WITHIN THE GOVERNMENT SECTOR COULD LEAD TO INCREASED GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION APPLICABLE TO US AND UNRECOVERABLE START-UP COSTS. Most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. As we pursue increased opportunities in the government arena, particularly in our facilities services segment, management's focus associated with the start-up and bidding process may be diverted away from other opportunities. If we are to be successful in being awarded additional government contracts, a significant amount of costs could be required before any revenues are realized from these contracts. In addition, as a government contractor we are subject to a number of procurement rules and other regulations, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. Government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. Government agencies may review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If government agencies determine through these audits or reviews that costs are improperly allocated to specific contracts, they will not reimburse the contractor for those costs or may require the contractor to refund previously reimbursed costs. If government agencies determine that we are engaged in improper activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties. Government contracts are also subject to renegotiation of profit, termination by the government prior to the expiration of the term and non-renewal by the government. A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO PROVIDE SURETY BONDS. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO COMPETE FOR OR WORK ON CERTAIN PROJECTS IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO OBTAIN THE NECESSARY SURETY BONDS. Our construction contracts frequently require that we obtain from surety companies and provide to our customers payment and performance bonds as a condition to the award of such contracts. Such surety bonds secure our payment and performance obligations. Surety market conditions have in the last few years become more difficult as a result of significant losses incurred by many surety companies, both in the construction industry as well as in certain large corporate bankruptcies. Consequently, less overall bonding capacity is available in the market than in the past, and surety bonds have become more expensive and restrictive. Further, under standard terms in the surety market, surety companies issue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing any bonds. Current or future market conditions, as well as changes in our sureties' assessment of their operating and financial risk, could cause our surety companies to decline to issue, or substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. These actions can be taken on short notice. If our surety companies were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other surety companies, increasing business with clients that do not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit, or cash. We may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. Accordingly, if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects. WE ARE EFFECTIVELY SELF-INSURED AGAINST MANY POTENTIAL LIABILITIES. Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to a broad range of risks, including automobile liability, general liability, workers compensation and employee group health, these policies do not cover all possible claims and certain of the policies are subject to large deductibles. Accordingly, we are effectively self-insured for a substantial number of actual and potential claims. Our estimates for unpaid claims and expenses are based on known facts, historical trends and industry averages utilizing the assistance of an actuary. We reflect these liabilities in our balance sheet as "Other accrued expenses and liabilities" and "Other long-term obligations." The determination of such estimated liabilities and their appropriateness are reviewed and updated at least quarterly. However, these liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to many relevant factors, the effects of which are often unknown, including the severity of an injury or damage, the determination of liability in proportion to other parties, the timeliness of reported claims, the effectiveness of our risk management and safety programs and the terms and conditions of our insurance policies. Our accruals are based upon known facts, historical trends and our reasonable estimate of future expenses, and we believe such accruals are adequate. However, unknown or changing trends, risks or circumstances, such as increases in claims, a weakening economy, increases in medical costs, changes in case law or legislation or changes in the nature of the work we perform, could render our current estimates and accruals inadequate. In such case, adjustments to our balance sheet may be required and these increased liabilities would be recorded in the period that the experience becomes known. Insurance carriers may be unwilling, in the future, to provide our current levels of coverage without a significant increase in insurance premiums and/or collateral requirements to cover our deductible obligations. Increased collateral requirements may be in the form of additional letters of credit, and an increase in collateral requirements could significantly reduce our liquidity. If insurance premiums increase, and/or if insurance claims are higher than our estimates, our profitablilty could be adversely affected. OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED AS A RESULT OF GOODWILL IMPAIRMENTS. When we acquire a business, we record an asset called "goodwill" equal to the excess amount paid for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business acquired. In 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement No. 141, "Business Combinations" which requires that all business combinations be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and that certain intangible assets acquired in a business combination be recognized as assets apart from goodwill. FASB Statement No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("Statement 142") provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives should continue to be amortized over their useful lives. Statement 142 also provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. Statement 142 requires management to make certain esti- 7 mates and assumptions to allocate goodwill to reporting units and to determine the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is determined using discounted estimated future cash flow. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform impairment tests annually each October 1. Impairments, if any, would be recognized as operating expenses and would adversely affect profitability. AMOUNTS INCLUDED IN OUR BACKLOG MAY NOT RESULT IN ACTUAL REVENUE OR TRANSLATE INTO PROFITS. Many of our contracts do not require purchase of a minimum amount of services. In addition, many contracts are cancelable on short notice. We have historically experienced variances in the components of backlog related to project delays or cancellations resulting from weather conditions, external market factors and economic factors beyond our control, and we may experience such delays or cancellations in the future. If our backlog fails to materialize, we could experience a reduction in revenue and a decline in profitability which would result in a deterioration of our financial condition, profitability and liquidity. WE ACCOUNT FOR THE MAJORITY OF OUR CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS USING THE PERCENTAGE-OF-COMPLETION ACCOUNTING METHOD; THEREFORE, VARIATIONS OF ACTUAL RESULTS FROM OUR ASSUMPTIONS MAY REDUCE OUR PROFITABILITY. We recognize revenue on construction contracts using the percentage-of-completion accounting method. See Application of Critical Accounting Policies in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Under the percentage-of-completion accounting method, we record revenue as work on the contract progresses. The cumulative amount of revenue recorded on a contract at a specified point in time is that percentage of total estimated revenue that incurred costs to date bear to total estimated costs. Accordingly, contract revenue and total cost estimates are reviewed and revised monthly as the work progresses. Adjustments are reflected in contract revenue in the period when such estimates are revised. Estimates are based on management's reasonable assumptions and experience, but are only estimates. Variation of actual results from assumptions on an unusually large project or on a number of average size projects could be material. We are also required to immediately recognize the full amount of the estimated loss on a contract when estimates indicate such a loss. Such adjustments and accrued losses could result in reduced profitability which could negatively impact our cash flow from operations. CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DOCUMENTS COULD MAKE AN ACQUISITION OF US, OR A SUBSTANTIAL INTEREST IN US, MORE DIFFICULT. The following provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect, as well as our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law, could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock: o our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue "blank check" preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws; o our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of our stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; o our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of our stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; o we are subject to provisions of Delaware law which prohibit us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an "interested stockholder" for a period of three years following the date such stockholder becomes classified as an interested stockholder; and o we adopted a stockholder rights plan that could cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors or permitted by our stockholder rights plan. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 8 