Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other risks described in this report, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects: 1. If we are unable to attract and retain independent associates, our business may suffer. Our future success depends largely upon our ability to attract and retain a large active base of independent associates and members who purchase our packs and products. We cannot give any assurances that the number of our independent associates will continue at their current levels or increase in the future. Several factors affect our ability to attract and retain independent associates and members, including: · on-going motivation of our independent associates; · general economic conditions; · significant changes in the amount of commissions paid; · public perception and acceptance of the wellness industry; · public perception and acceptance of network marketing; · public perception and acceptance of our business and our products, including any negative publicity; · the limited number of people interested in pursuing network marketing as a business; · our ability to provide proprietary quality-driven products that the market demands; and · competition in recruiting and retaining independent associates. 2. The loss of key high-level independent associate leaders could negatively impact our associate growth and our revenue. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 229,000 active independent associates and members who purchased our products within the last 12 months, of which 147 occupied the highest associate level under our global compensation plan. These independent associate leaders are important in maintaining and growing our revenue. As a result, the loss of a high-level independent associate or a group of leading associates in the independent associates’ networks of downlines, whether by their own choice or through disciplinary actions by us for violations of our policies and procedures, could negatively impact our associate growth and our revenue. 3. Changes to our associate compensation arrangements could be viewed negatively by some independent associates, could cause failure to achieve desired long-term results and have a negative impact on revenue. Our associate compensation plan includes components that differ from market to market. We modify components of our compensation plan from time to time in an attempt to remain competitive and attractive to existing and potential independent associates including such modifications: · to address changing market dynamics; · to provide incentives to independent associates that are intended to help grow our business; · to conform to local regulations; and · to address other business needs. Because of the size of our associate force and the complexity of our compensation plans, it is difficult to predict how independent associates will view such changes and whether such changes will achieve their desired results. 4. An increase in the amount of commissions and incentives paid to independent associates and members reduces our profitability. The payment of commissions and incentives, including bonuses and prizes, is our most significant expense. Together, our commissions and incentives range approximately from 41% to 43% of our consolidated net sales. We closely monitor the amount of commissions and incentives as a percentage of net sales, and may periodically adjust our compensation plan to better manage these costs. There can be no assurance that changes to the compensation plan will be successful in achieving target levels of commissions and incentives as a percentage of net sales and preventing these costs from having a significant adverse effect on our earnings. Furthermore, such changes may make it difficult to attract and retain independent associates or cause us to lose some of our existing independent associates. 21 Table of Contents 5. The loss of key management personnel could adversely affect our business. We depend on the continued services of our executive officers and senior management team as they work closely with independent associate leaders and are responsible for our day-to-day operations. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain our executive officers, to compensate our executive officers at attractive levels, and to continue to attract additional qualified individuals to our management team. Although we have entered into employment agreements with certain members of our senior management team, and do not believe that any of them are planning to leave or retire in the near term, we cannot assure you that our senior managers will remain with us. The loss or limitation of the services of any of our executive officers or members of our senior management team, including our regional and country managers, or the inability to attract additional qualified management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or independent associate relations. 6. If government regulations regarding network marketing change or are interpreted or enforced in a manner adverse to our business, we may be subject to new enforcement actions and material limitations regarding our overall business model. Network marketing is always subject to extensive governmental regulations, including foreign, federal, and state regulations. Any change in legislation and regulations could affect our business. Furthermore, significant penalties could be imposed on us for failure to comply with various statutes or regulations. Violations may result from: · ambiguity in statutes; · regulations and related court decisions; · the discretion afforded to regulatory authorities and courts interpreting and enforcing laws; and · new regulations or interpretations of regulations affecting our business. 7. Independent associates could fail to comply with our associate policies and procedures or make improper product, compensation, marketing or advertising claims that violate laws or regulations, which could result in claims against us that could harm our financial condition and operating results. We sell our products worldwide to a sales force of independent associates. The independent associates are independent contractors and, accordingly, we are not in a position to provide the same direction, motivation, and oversight as we would if associates were our own employees. As a result, there can be no assurance that our associates will participate in our marketing strategies or plans, accept our introduction of new products, or comply with our associate policies and procedures. All independent associates sign a written contract and agree to adhere to our policies and procedures, which prohibit associates from making false, misleading or other improper claims regarding products or income potential from the distribution of the products. However, independent associates may from time to time, without our knowledge and in violation of our policies, create promotional materials or otherwise provide information that does not accurately describe our marketing program. There is a possibility that some jurisdictions could seek to hold us responsible for independent associate activities that violate applicable laws or regulations, which could result in government or third party actions or fines against us, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. 8. We may be held responsible for certain taxes or assessments relating to the activities of our independent associates, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Our independent associates are subject to taxation and, in some instances, legislation or governmental agencies impose an obligation on us to collect taxes, such as value added taxes, and to maintain appropriate tax records. In addition, we are subject to the risk in some jurisdictions of being responsible for social security and similar taxes with respect to our distributors. In the event that local laws and regulations require us to treat our independent distributors as employees, or if our distributors are deemed by local regulatory authorities to be our employees, rather than independent contractors, we may be held responsible for social security and related taxes in those jurisdictions, plus any related assessments and penalties, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. 22 Table of Contents 9. Challenges by private parties to the form of our network marketing system could harm our business. We may be subject to challenges by private parties, including our independent associates and members, to the form of our network marketing system or elements of our business. In the United States, the network marketing industry and regulatory authorities have relied on the implementation of distributor rules and policies designed to promote retail sales to protect consumers, prevent inappropriate activities, and distinguish between legitimate network marketing distribution plans and unlawful pyramid schemes. We have adopted rules and policies based on case law, rulings of the FTC, discussions with regulatory authorities in several states, and domestic and global industry standards. Legal and regulatory requirements concerning network marketing systems, however, involve a high level of subjectivity, are inherently fact-based, and are subject to judicial interpretation. Because of this, we can provide no assurance that we would not be harmed by the application or interpretation of statutes or regulations governing network marketing, particularly in any civil challenge by a current or former independent associate or member. 10. If our network marketing activities do not comply with government regulations, our business could suffer. Many governmental agencies regulate our network marketing activities. A government agency’s determination that our business or our independent associates have significantly violated a law or regulation could adversely affect our business. The laws and regulations for network marketing intend to prevent fraudulent or deceptive schemes. Our business faces constant regulatory scrutiny due to the interpretive and enforcement discretion given to regulators, periodic misconduct by our independent associates, adoption of new laws or regulations, and changes in the interpretation of new or existing laws or regulations. For example, in July 2007, the Texas Attorney General filed suit against us, MannaRelief Ministries, Samuel L.Caster, the Fisher Institute, and H. Reginald McDaniel alleging violations of the Texas Deceptive Trade Practices Act and the Texas Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. We subsequently reached an agreement with the Texas Attorney General’s office settling the enforcement action. Without admitting any wrongdoing, we agreed to refund up to $4 million to certain members and paid $2 million to cover fees and expenses of Texas regulators. We also made certain corporate governance changes required by the Texas Attorney General’s office and have taken a number of actions to address concerns raised by the Texas Attorney General. If we are unable to comply fully with the provisions of the settlement, Texas regulators could pursue further remedies that may impact our business. In addition, in the past and because of the industry in which we operate, we have experienced inquiries regarding specific independent associates. 11. If we violate governmental regulations or fail to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, our operations could be adversely affected. Our operation is subject to extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions, and similar constraints at the federal, state, and local levels in our domestic and foreign markets. These regulations primarily involve the following: · the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, importation, sale, and storage of our products; · the health and safety of dietary supplements, cosmetics and foods; · trade practice laws and network marketing laws; · our product claims and advertising by our independent associates; · our network marketing system; · pricing restrictions regarding transactions with our foreign subsidiaries or other related parties and similar regulations that affect our level of foreign taxable income; · the assessment of customs duties; · further taxation of our independent associates, which may obligate us to collect additional taxes and maintain additional records; and · export and import restrictions. Any unexpected new regulations or changes in existing regulations could significantly restrict our ability to continue operations, which could adversely affect our business. For example, changes regarding health and safety and food and drug regulations for our nutritional products could require us to reformulate our products to comply with such regulations. 23 Table of Contents In some foreign countries, nutritional products are considered foods, while other countries consider them drugs. Future health and safety or food and drug regulations could delay or prevent our introduction of new products or suspend or prohibit the sale of existing products in a given country or marketplace. In addition, if we expand into other foreign markets, our operations or products could also be affected by the general stability of such foreign governments and the regulatory environment relating to network marketing and our products. If our products are subject to high customs duties, our sales and competitive position could suffer as compared to locally produced goods. Furthermore, import restrictions in certain countries and jurisdictions could limit our ability to import products from the United States. 12. Increased regulatory scrutiny of nutritional supplements as well as new regulations that are being adopted in some of our markets with respect to nutritional supplements could result in more restrictive regulations and harm our results if our supplements or advertising activities are found to violate existing or new regulations or if we are not able to effect necessary changes to our products in a timely and efficient manner to respond to new regulations. There has been an increasing movement in the United States and other markets to increase the regulation of dietary supplements, which could impose additional restrictions or requirements on us and increase the cost of doing business. In several of our markets, new regulations have been adopted, or are likely to be adopted, in the near-term that will impose new requirements, make changes in some classifications of supplements under the regulations, or limit the claims we can make. In addition, there has been increased regulatory scrutiny of nutritional supplements and marketing claims under existing and new regulations. In Europe, for example, we are unable to market supplements that contain ingredients that have not been previously marketed in Europe without going through an extensive registration and approval process. Europe is also expected to adopt additional regulations in the near future to set new limits on acceptable levels of nutrients. The FDA has implemented Good Manufacturing Practices for the U.S. nutritional supplement industry. Our operations could be harmed if new regulations require us to reformulate products or effect new registrations, if regulatory authorities make determinations that any of our products do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, if the cost of complying with regulatory requirements increases materially, or if we are not able to effect necessary changes to our products in a timely and efficient manner to respond to new regulations. In addition, our operations could be harmed if governmental laws or regulations are enacted that restrict the ability of companies to market or distribute nutritional supplements or impose additional burdens or requirements on nutritional supplement companies. 13. If we are unable to protect the proprietary rights of our products, our business could suffer. Our success and competitive position largely depends on our ability to protect the following proprietary rights: · our Ambrotose® complex, a glyconutritional dietary supplement ingredient consisting of a blend of monosaccharides, or sugar molecules, used in the majority of our products; · the MTech AO Blend®, our proprietary, patent-pending antioxidant used in the Ambrotose AO® complex; and · a compound used in our reformulated Advanced Ambrotose® complex that allows for a more potent concentration of the full range of mannose-containing polysaccharides occurring naturally in aloe. We have filed patent applications for the technology relating to Ambrotose®, Ambrotose AO®, Phytomatrix®, GI-ProBalance™ and FiberSlim® in the United States and certain foreign countries. As of December 31, 2012, we had received 53 patents for the technology relating to Ambrotose® complex, six of which were issued in the United States and the remainder of which were issued in 31 foreign jurisdictions. In addition, we have entered into confidentiality agreements with our independent associates, suppliers, manufacturers, directors, officers, and consultants to help protect our proprietary rights. Nevertheless, we continue to face the risk that our pending patent applications for our products may not issue or that the patent protection granted is more limited than originally requested. As a precaution, we consult with outside legal counsel and consultants to help ensure that we protect our proprietary rights. However, our business, profitability, and growth prospects could be adversely affected if we fail to receive adequate protection of our proprietary rights. 24 Table of Contents 14. Our inability to develop and introduce new products that gain independent associate, member, and market acceptance could harm our business. A critical component of our business is our ability to develop new products that create enthusiasm among our independent associates and members. If we are unable to introduce new products, our independent associate productivity could be harmed. In addition, if any new products fail to gain market acceptance, are restricted by regulatory requirements or have quality problems, this would harm our results of operations. Factors that could affect our ability to continue to introduce new products include, among others, government regulations, the inability to attract and retain qualified research and development staff, the termination of third-party research and collaborative arrangements, proprietary protections of competitors that may limit our ability to offer comparable products, and the difficulties in anticipating changes in consumer tastes and buying preferences. 15. Our failure to appropriately respond to changing consumer preferences and demand for new products or product enhancements could significantly harm our relationship with independent associates and members, our product sales, as well as our financial condition and operating results. Our business is subject to changing consumer trends and preferences, including rapid and frequent changes in demand for products, new product introductions, and enhancements. Our failure to accurately predict these trends could negatively impact consumer opinion of our products, which in turn could harm our independent associate and member relationships and cause the loss of sales. The success of our new product offerings and enhancements depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: · accurately anticipate consumer needs; · innovate and develop new products or product enhancements that meet these needs; · successfully commercialize new products or product enhancements in a timely manner; · price our products competitively; · manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and in a timely manner; and · differentiate our product offerings from those of our competitors. If we do not introduce new products or make enhancements to meet the changing needs of our members in a timely manner, some of our products could be rendered obsolete, which could negatively impact our revenues, financial condition, and operating results. 16. If our outside suppliers and manufacturers fail to supply products in sufficient quantities and in a timely fashion, our business could suffer. Outside manufacturers make all of our products. Our profit margins and timely product delivery are dependent upon the ability of our outside suppliers and manufacturers to supply us with products in a timely and cost-efficient manner. Our ability to enter new markets and sustain satisfactory levels of sales in each market depends on the ability of our outside suppliers and manufacturers to provide required levels of ingredients and products and to comply with all applicable regulations. As a precaution, we have approved alternate suppliers and manufacturers for our products. However, the failure of our primary suppliers or manufacturers to supply ingredients or produce our products could adversely affect our business operations. We believe we have dependable suppliers for all of our ingredients and we have identified alternative sources for all of our ingredients, except Arabinogalactan. Due to the unique nature of Arabinogalactan, an important component used in the formulation of our Ambrotose® complex, we are unable to identify an alternative supplier at this time. If our suppliers are unable to perform, any delay in replacing or substituting such ingredients could affect our business. 17. The loss of suppliers or shortages of raw materials could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We depend on outside suppliers for raw materials. Our contract manufacturers acquire all of the raw materials for manufacturing our products from third-party suppliers. In the event we were to lose any significant suppliers and have trouble in finding or transitioning to alternative suppliers, it could result in product shortages or product back orders, which could harm our business. There can be no assurance that suppliers will be able to provide our contract manufacturers the raw materials in the quantities and at the appropriate level of quality that we request or at a price that we are willing to pay. We are also subject to delays caused by any interruption in the production of these materials including weather, crop conditions, climate change, transportation interruptions and natural disasters or other catastrophic events. 25 Table of Contents 18. If we are exposed to product liability claims, we may be liable for damages and expenses, which could affect our overall financial condition. We could face financial liability from product liability claims if the use of our products results in significant loss or injury. We can make no assurances that we will not be exposed to any substantial future product liability claims. Such claims may include claims that our products contain contaminants, that we provide our independent associates and consumers with inadequate instructions regarding product use, or that we provide inadequate warnings concerning side effects or interactions of our products with other substances. We believe that we, our suppliers, and our manufacturers maintain adequate product liability insurance coverage. However, a substantial future product liability claim could exceed the amount of insurance coverage or could be excluded under the terms of an existing insurance policy, which could adversely affect our overall future financial condition. In recent years a discovery of Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy, (“BSE”), which is commonly referred to as “Mad Cow Disease”, has caused concern among the general public. As a result, some countries have banned the importation or sale of products that contain bovine materials sourced from locations where BSE has been identified. We have changed the vast majority of our capsules to a vegetable base. However, if a vegetable base is not available or practical for use, certifications are required to ensure the capsule material is BSE-free. The higher costs could affect our financial condition, results of operations, and our cash flows. 19. Concentration Risk A significant portion of our revenue is derived from our core Ambrotose® complex products, which include the Ambrotose® products and Advanced Ambrotose® products. A decline in sales value of such legacy products could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows, and financial position. Revenue from the core Ambrotose® products were as follows for the years ended December 31, 2012, and 2011 (in thousands, except percentages): 2012 2011 Sales by product % of total net sales Sales by product % of total net sales Advanced Ambrotose® $ 66,280 38.2 % $ 66,893 33.3 % Ambrotose® 12,143 7.0 % 15,513 7.7 % Total $ 78,423 45.2 % $ 82,406 41.0 % Our business is not currently exposed to customer concentration risk given that no independent associate has ever accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net sales. 20. If we incur substantial liability from litigation, complaints, or enforcement actions or incur liabilities or penalties resulting from misconduct by our independent associates, our financial condition could suffer. Routine enforcement actions and complaints are common in our industry. Although we believe we fully cooperate with regulatory agencies and use various means to address misconduct by our independent associates, including maintaining policies and procedures to govern the conduct of our independent associates and conducting training seminars, it is still difficult to detect and correct all instances of misconduct. Violations of our policies and procedures by our independent associates could lead to litigation, formal or informal complaints, enforcement actions, and inquiries by various federal, state, or foreign regulatory authorities against us and/or our independent associates in each country. Because we have expanded into foreign countries, our policies and procedures for our independent associates differ depending on the different legal requirements of each country in which an independent associate does business. Any future litigation, complaints, and enforcement actions involving us and/or our independent associates could consume considerable amounts of financial and other corporate resources, which could have a negative impact on our business, profitability, and growth prospects. 21. The global nutrition industry is intensely competitive and the strengthening of any of our competitors could harm our business. The global nutrition industry is intensely fragmented and competitive. We compete for independent associates with other network marketing companies outside the global nutrition industry. Many of our competitors have greater name recognition and financial resources, which may give them a competitive advantage. Our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to marketing, promotional, and pricing campaigns that may influence our continuing and potential independent associates and members to buy products from competitors rather than from us. Such competition could adversely affect our business and current market share. 26 Table of Contents 22. A downturn in the economy has affected consumer purchases of discretionary items such as the health and wellness products that we offer, which could continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. We appeal to a wide demographic consumer profile and offer a broad selection of health and wellness products. A downturn in the economy has adversely impacted consumer purchases of discretionary items such as health and wellness products. During the last few years, the United States and global economies slowed dramatically as a result of a variety of problems, including turmoil in the credit and financial markets, concerns regarding the stability and viability of major financial institutions, the state of the housing markets, and volatility in worldwide stock markets. Given the significance and widespread nature of these nearly unprecedented circumstances, the U.S. and global economies could remain significantly challenged in a recessionary state for an indeterminate period of time. These economic conditions could cause many of our existing and potential associates to delay or reduce purchases of our products for some time, which in turn could continue to harm our business by adversely affecting our revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We cannot predict the duration of these economic conditions or the impact they will have on our consumers or business. For additional information regarding current economic conditions and their impact on our results of operations, refer to Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 23. If our international markets are not successful, our business could suffer. We currently sell our products in the international markets of Canada, Mexico, Austria, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, the Republic of Ireland, Namibia, Netherlands, Norway, South Africa, Sweden, the United Kingdom, Australia, Japan, New Zealand, the Republic of Korea, Singapore and Taiwan and ship our products to the Ukraine and Hong Kong through existing distribution channels. Our international operations could experience changes in legal and regulatory requirements, as well as difficulties in adapting to new foreign cultures and business customs. If we do not adequately address such issues, our international markets may not meet growth expectations. Our international operations and future expansion plans are subject to political, economic, and social uncertainties, including: · inflation; · the renegotiation or modification of various agreements; · increases in custom duties and tariffs; · changes and limits in export controls; · government regulations and laws; · trademark availability and registration issues; · changes in exchange rates; · changes in taxation; · wars and other hostilities; and · changes in the perception of network marketing. Any negative changes related to these factors could adversely affect our business, profitability, and growth prospects. Furthermore, any negative changes in our distribution channels may force us to invest significant time and money related to our distribution and sales to maintain our position in certain international markets. 24. Adverse or negative publicity could cause our business to suffer. Our business depends, in part, on the public’s perception of our integrity and the safety and quality of our products. Any adverse publicity could negatively affect the public’s perception about our industry, our products, or our reputation and could result in a significant decline in our operations and/or the number of our independent associates. Specifically, we are susceptible to adverse or negative publicity regarding: · the nutritional supplements industry; · skeptical consumers; 27 Table of Contents · competitors; · the safety and quality of our products and/or our ingredients; · regulatory investigations of our products or our competitors’ products; · the actions of our independent associates; · the direct selling/network marketing industry; and · scandals within the industries in which we operate. For instance, on July 5, 2007, the Texas Attorney General filed suit against us, MannaRelief Ministries, Samuel L.Caster, the Fisher Institute, and H. Reginald McDaniel alleging violations of the Texas Deceptive Trade Practices Act and the Texas Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. We subsequently reached an agreement with the Texas Attorney General’s office settling an enforcement action against us, our former Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Samuel L. Caster, and others. Without admitting any wrongdoing, we agreed to refund up to $4 million to certain members and pay $2 million to cover fees and expenses of Texas regulators. The settlement did not include any fine or penalty against the Company. We have also taken a number of actions to address concerns raised by the Texas Attorney General’s action. Although the matter has been resolved, the lawsuit created a substantial amount of adverse publicity that may have had and may continue to have a negative impact on our business. 25. If our information technology system fails, our operations could suffer. Like many companies, our business is heavily dependent upon our information technology infrastructure to effectively manage and operate many of our key business functions, including: · order processing; · supply chain management; · customer service; · product distribution; · commission processing; · cash receipts and payments; and · financial reporting. These systems and operations are vulnerable to damage and interruption from fires, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, and other events. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Although we maintain an extensive security system and disaster recovery program that was developed under the guidelines published by the National Institute of Standards of Technology, a long-term failure or impairment of any of our information technology systems could adversely affect our ability to conduct day-to-day business. 26. Taxation and transfer pricing affect our operations and we could be subjected to additional taxes, duties, interest, and penalties in material amounts, which could harm our business. As a multinational corporation, in many countries, including the United States, we are subject to transfer pricing and other tax regulations designed to ensure that our intercompany transactions are consummated at prices that have not been manipulated to produce a desired tax result, that appropriate levels of income are reported as earned by the local entities, and that we are taxed appropriately on such transactions. Regulators closely monitor our corporate structure, intercompany transactions, and how we effectuate intercompany fund transfers. If regulators challenge our corporate structure, transfer pricing methodologies or intercompany transfers, our operations may be harmed and our effective tax rate may increase. A change in applicable tax laws or regulations or their interpretation could result in a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings and such change could be significant to our financial results. In the event any audit or assessments are concluded adversely to us, these matters could have a material impact on our financial condition. 27. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could reduce our overall profits. In 2012 and 2011, we recognized 59.2% and 58.2%, respectively, of net sales in markets outside of the United States. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, certain financial information is required to be translated from foreign currencies to the United States dollar using either the spot rate or the weighted-average exchange rate. If the United States dollar changes relative to applicable local currencies, there is a risk our reported sales, operating expenses, and net income could significantly fluctuate. We are not able to predict the degree of exchange rate fluctuations, nor can we estimate the effect any future fluctuations may have upon our future operations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging contracts or participated in any hedging or derivative activities. 28 Table of Contents 28. Our stock price is volatile and may fluctuate significantly. The price of our common stock is subject to sudden and material increases and decreases. Decreases could adversely affect investments in our common stock. The price of our common stock and the price at which we could sell securities in the future could significantly fluctuate in response to: · broad market fluctuations and general economic conditions; · fluctuations in our financial results; · future securities offerings; · changes in the market’s perception of our products or our business, including false or negative publicity; · governmental regulatory actions; · the outcome of any lawsuits; · financial and business announcements made by us or our competitors; · the general condition of the industry; and · the sale of large amounts of stock by insiders. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years that have significantly affected the quoted prices of the securities of many companies. The changes sometimes appear to occur without regard to specific operating performance. The price of our common stock in the open market could fluctuate based on factors that have little or nothing to do with us or that are outside of our control. 29. Certain shareholders, directors, and officers own a significant amount of our stock, which could allow them to influence corporate transactions and other matters. As of December 31, 2012, our directors, executive officers, and a major shareholder, collectively with their families and affiliates, beneficially owned approximately 35.8% of our total outstanding common stock. As a result, if two or more of these shareholders choose to act together based on their current share ownership, they may be able to control a significant percentage of the total outstanding shares of our common stock, which could affect the outcome of a shareholder vote on the election of directors, the adoption of stock option plans, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, or the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. 30. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions that may help discourage a change of control. Certain provisions in our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and the Texas Business Organizations Code help discourage unsolicited proposals to acquire our Company, even if the proposal may benefit our shareholders. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of preferred stock without shareholder approval. Our Board of Directors has the power to determine the price and terms of any preferred stock. The ability of our Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock without shareholders’ approval could deter or delay unsolicited changes of control by discouraging open market purchases of our common stock or a non-negotiated tender or exchange offer for our common stock. Discouraging open market purchases may be disadvantageous to our shareholders who may otherwise desire to participate in a transaction in which they would receive a premium for their shares. In addition, other provisions may also discourage a change of control by means of a tender offer, open market purchase, proxy contest or otherwise. Our charter documents provide for three classes of directors on our Board of Directors with members of each class serving staggered three year terms. In addition, the Texas Business Organization Code restricts, subject to exceptions, business combinations with any “affiliated shareholder.” Any or all of these provisions could delay, deter or help prevent a takeover of our Company and could limit the price investors are willing to pay for our common stock. 29 Table of Contents 31. Our failure to comply with the NASDAQ Global Select Market continued listing standards may adversely affect the price and liquidity of our shares of common stock as well as our ability to raise capital in the future. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Continued listing of a security on Nasdaq is conditioned upon compliance with various continued listing standards. There can be no assurance that we will continue to satisfy the requirements for maintaining listing on Nasdaq. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining compliance with the continued listing requirements of Nasdaq, then our common stock could be delisted. If our common stock is delisted and we cannot obtain listing on another major market or exchange, our common stock’s liquidity would suffer, and we would likely experience reduced investor interest. Such factors may result in a decrease in our common stock’s trading price. Delisting may also restrict us from issuing additional securities or securing financing. To continue to have our common stock eligible for continued listing on Nasdaq, we would need to satisfy criteria under at least one of the three standards set forth by the Nasdaq Stock Market. Under Equity Standard Listing Rules 5450(a) and 5450(b)(1), these criteria require that: · we have shareholders’ equity of at least $10 million; · our common stock has at least $1.00 minimum bid for 30 consecutive business days; · our public float must consist of at least 750,000 shares with a market value of at least $5 million (public float is defined under Nasdaq’s rules as the shares held by persons other than officers, directors and beneficial owners of greater than 10% of our total outstanding shares); · there be at least 400 shareholders; · there be at least two market makers for our common stock; and · we comply with certain corporate governance requirements. As of the date of issuance of this report, we were in compliance with these continued listing requirements. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in continuing to meet all requisite continued listing criteria. 32. We are not required to pay dividends, and our Board of Directors may decide not to declare dividends in the future. The declaration of dividends on our common stock is solely within the discretion of our Board of Directors, subject to limitations under Texas law stipulating that dividends may not be paid if payment therefore would cause the corporation to be insolvent or if the amount of the dividend would exceed the surplus of the corporation. Our Board of Directors may decide not to declare dividends or we could be prevented from declaring a dividend because of legal or contractual restrictions. The failure to pay dividends could reduce our stock price. Our Board of Directors suspended dividends in August 2009. We may not resume payment of dividends in the future. 33. We rely upon our existing cash balances and cash flow from operations to fund our business. In the event that we do not generate adequate cash flow from operations, we will need to raise money through a debt or equity financing, if available, or curtail operations. The adequacy of our cash resources to continue to meet our future operational needs depends, in large part, on our ability to increase product sales and/or reduce operating costs. If we are unsuccessful in generating positive cash flow from operations, we could exhaust our available cash resources and be required to secure additional funding through a debt or equity financing, significantly scale back our operations, and/or discontinue many of our activities which could negatively affect our business and prospects. Additional funding may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms. 34. Our Equity Line with Dutchess may not be available to us if we elect to make a draw down. On September 16, 2010, we entered into an Investment Agreement (the “Investment Agreement”) with Dutchess Opportunity Fund II, LP, a Delaware limited partnership ( “Dutchess”). Pursuant to the Investment Agreement, Dutchess committed to purchase, subject to certain restrictions and conditions, up to $10,000,000 of our common stock, over a period of 36 months from the first trading day following the effectiveness of the registration statement registering the resale of shares purchased by Dutchess pursuant to the Investment Agreement (the “Equity Line”). Dutchess will not be obligated to purchase shares under the Equity Line unless certain conditions are met, which include: effectiveness of the registration statement; the continued listing of our stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market; our compliance with our obligations under the Investment Agreement and Registration Rights Agreement entered into with Dutchess; the absence of injunctions or other governmental actions prohibiting the issuance of common stock to Dutchess; the absence of violations of shareholder approval requirements with respect to such issuance of our common stock to Dutchess; the accuracy of representations and warranties made to Dutchess; and approval of the Equity Line transaction by our board of directors. If we are unable to access funds through the Equity Line, we may be unable to access capital on favorable terms or at all. 30 Table of Contents 35. Any draw downs under our Equity Line with Dutchess may result in dilution to our shareholders. If we sell shares to Dutchess under the Equity Line, it will have a dilutive effect on the holdings of our current shareholders, and may result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. If we draw down amounts under the Equity Line, we will issue shares to Dutchess at a discount of up to 4% from the average price of our common stock. If we draw down amounts under the Equity Line when our share price is decreasing, we will need to issue more shares to raise the same amount than if our stock price was higher. Issuances in the face of a declining share price will have an even greater dilutive effect than if our share price were stable or increasing and may further decrease our share price. 36. The reduced disclosure requirements applicable to us as a "smaller reporting company" may make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are a "smaller reporting company" as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. As a smaller reporting company we prepare and file SEC forms similar to other SEC reporting companies; however, the information disclosed may differ and be less comprehensive. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of less comprehensive information we may disclose pursuant to the exemptions available to us as a smaller reporting company, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile than that of an otherwise comparable company that does not avail itself of the same or similar exemptions. Circumstances and conditions may change. Accordingly, additional risks and uncertainties not currently known, or that we currently deem not material, may also adversely affect our business operations. 31 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 