Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves risk. You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before investing in our common stock. If We Are Unable to Successfully Execute Our Turnaround Strategy, Our Results of Operations Will Not Improve. Over the past several fiscal years, a number of key financial and operating metrics for our company have declined, including net income, operating income and comparable store sales. We have reported a net loss for the past two fiscal years, and for the first time in our history as a public company, we have reported a decline in total revenue as compared to the prior fiscal year. In order to attempt to reverse these trends, we have embarked on an operating strategy designed to improve our operating and financial performance, including improved merchandising, improved guest service, aggressive closing of underperforming stores, and expense reductions. If our turnaround strategy is not successful, our financial and operating results are unlikely to improve, and the market value of our stock could decline. A Prolonged Economic Downturn Could Result in Reduced Net Sales and Profitability. Our net sales are also subject to a number of factors relating to consumer spending, including general economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as unemployment rates, business conditions, interest rates, levels of consumer confidence, energy prices, mortgage rates, the level of consumer debt and taxation. A weak retail environment could impact customer traffic in our stores and also adversely affect our net sales. Purchases of home décor items may decline during recessionary periods, and a prolonged recession may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, economic downturns during the last quarter of our fiscal year could adversely affect us to a greater extent than if such downturns occurred at other times of the year. We May Not Be Able to Successfully Anticipate Consumer Trends and Our Failure to Do So May Lead to Loss of Consumer Acceptance of Our Products Resulting in Reduced Net Sales. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing merchandise trends and consumer demands in a timely manner. If we fail to identify and respond to emerging trends, consumer acceptance of the merchandise in our stores and our image with our customers may be harmed, which could reduce customer traffic in our stores and materially adversely affect our net sales. Additionally, if we misjudge market trends, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns, which would have a negative impact on our gross profit and cash flow. Conversely, shortages of items that prove popular could reduce our net sales. In addition, a major shift in consumer demand away from home décor could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Market Price for Our Common Stock Might Be Volatile and Could Result in a Decline in the Value of Your Investment. The price at which our common stock trades may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to our operating results, general trends and prospects for the retail industry, announcements by our competitors, analyst recommendations, our ability to meet or exceed analysts’ or investors’ expectations, the condition of the financial markets and other factors. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often 12 Table of Contents have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock notwithstanding our actual operating performance. Our Comparable Store Net Sales Fluctuate Due to a Variety of Factors. Numerous factors affect our comparable store net sales results, including among others, weather conditions, retail trends, the retail sales environment, economic conditions, the impact of competition and our ability to execute our business strategy efficiently. Our comparable store net sales results have historically experienced fluctuations, and in the past several years, we have experienced declines in comparable store sales. Our comparable store net sales may not increase from quarter to quarter and may continue to decline. As a result, the unpredictability of our comparable store net sales may cause our revenues and operating results to vary quarter to quarter, and an unanticipated decline in revenues or comparable store net sales may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. We Face an Extremely Competitive Specialty Retail Business Market, and Such Competition Could Result in a Reduction of Our Prices and a Loss of Our Market Share. The retail market is highly competitive. We compete against a diverse group of retailers, including specialty stores, department stores, discount stores and catalog retailers, which carry merchandise in one or more categories also carried by us. Our product offerings also compete with a variety of national, regional and local retailers, including such specialty retailers as Bed, Bath & Beyond, Cost Plus World Market, Linens ’n Things, Michaels Stores, Pier 1 Imports and Pottery Barn. We also compete with these and other retailers for suitable retail locations, suppliers, qualified employees and management personnel. One or more of our competitors are present in substantially all of the markets in which we have stores. Many of our competitors are larger and have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. This competition could result in the reduction of our prices and a loss of our market share. Our net sales are also impacted by store liquidations of our competitors. We believe that our stores compete primarily on the basis of merchandise quality and selection, price, visual appeal of the merchandise and the store and convenience of location. We Depend on a Number of Vendors to Supply Our Merchandise, and Any Delay in Merchandise Deliveries from Certain Vendors May Lead to a Decline in Inventory Which Could Result in a Loss of Net Sales. We purchase our products from approximately 275 vendors with which we have no long-term purchase commitments or exclusive contracts. None of our vendors supplied more than 10% of our merchandise purchases during fiscal 2007. Historically, we have retained our vendors and we have generally not experienced difficulty in obtaining desired merchandise from vendors on acceptable terms. However, our arrangements with these vendors do not guarantee the availability of merchandise, establish guaranteed prices or provide for the continuation of particular pricing practices. Our current vendors may not continue to sell products to us on current terms or at all, and we may not be able to establish relationships with new vendors to ensure delivery of products in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us. In addition, our recent unfavorable financial performance may make it difficult for some of our vendors to arrange for the financing or factoring of their orders with manufacturers, which could result in our inability to obtain desired merchandise from those vendors. We may not be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on terms acceptable to us in the future. Also, our business would be adversely affected if there were delays in product shipments to us due to freight difficulties, strikes or other difficulties at our principal transport providers or otherwise. We have from time to time experienced delays of this nature. We are also dependent on vendors for assuring the quality of merchandise supplied to us. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise in the future or the loss of one or more of our vendors and our failure to replace any one or more of them may harm our relationship with our customers resulting in a loss of net sales. 13 Table of Contents We Are Dependent on Foreign Imports for a Significant Portion of Our Merchandise, and Any Changes in the Trading Relations and Conditions Between the United States and the Relevant Foreign Countries May Lead to a Decline in Inventory Resulting in a Decline in Net Sales, or an Increase in the Cost of Sales Resulting in Reduced Gross Profit. Most of our merchandise is purchased through vendors in the United States who import the merchandise from foreign countries including China and India. Our vendors are subject to the risks involved with relying on products manufactured abroad, and we remain subject to those risks to the extent that their effects are passed through to us by our vendors or cause disruptions in supply. These risks include changes in import duties, quotas, loss of “most favored nation” trading status with the United States for a particular foreign country, work stoppages, delays in shipments, freight cost increases, terrorism, war, economic uncertainties (including inflation, foreign government regulations and political unrest) and trade restrictions (including the United States imposing antidumping or countervailing duty orders, safeguards, remedies or compensation and retaliation due to illegal foreign trade practices). If any of these or other factors were to cause a disruption of trade from the countries in which the suppliers of our vendors are located, our inventory levels may be reduced or the cost of our products may increase. Historically, instability in the political and economic environments of the countries in which our vendors obtain our products has not had a material adverse effect on our operations. However, we cannot predict the effect that future changes in economic or political conditions in such foreign countries may have on our operations. Although we believe that we could access alternative sources in the event of disruptions or delays in supply due to economic, political or health conditions in foreign countries on our vendors, such disruptions or delays may adversely affect our results of operations unless and until alternative supply arrangements could be made. In addition, merchandise purchased from alternative sources may be of lesser quality or more expensive than the merchandise we currently purchase abroad. Countries from which our vendors obtain these products may, from time to time, impose new or adjust prevailing quotas or other restrictions on exported products, and the United States may impose new duties, quotas and other restrictions on imported products. This could disrupt the supply of such products to us and adversely affect our operations. The United States Congress periodically considers other restrictions on the importation of products obtained for us by vendors. The cost of such products may increase for us if applicable duties are raised or import quotas with respect to such products are imposed or made more restrictive. We are also subject to the risk that the manufacturers abroad who ultimately manufacture our products may employ labor practices that are not consistent with acceptable practices in the United States. In any such event we could be hurt by negative publicity with respect to those practices and, in some cases, face liability for those practices. Our Success Is Highly Dependent on Our Planning and Control Processes and Our Supply Chain, and Any Disruption in or Failure to Continue to Improve These Processes May Result in a Loss of Net Sales and Net Income. An important part of our efforts to achieve efficiencies, cost reductions and net sales growth is the continued identification and implementation of improvements to our planning, logistical and distribution infrastructure and our supply chain, including merchandise ordering, transportation and receipt processing. In addition, recent increases in energy prices have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in increased merchandise and freight costs, which cannot readily be offset through higher prices because of competitive factors. A significant portion of the distribution to our stores is coordinated through our distribution facility in Jackson, Tennessee. Any significant disruption in the operations of this facility would have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain proper inventory levels in our stores which could result in a loss of net sales and net income. 14 Table of Contents Our Business Is Highly Seasonal and Our Fourth Quarter Contributes a Disproportionate Amount of Our Net Sales, Net Income and Cash Flow, and Any Factors Negatively Impacting Us During Our Fourth Quarter Could Reduce Our Net Sales, Net Income and Cash Flow, Leaving Us with Excess Inventory and Making It More Difficult for Us to Finance Our Capital Requirements. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, substantial seasonal fluctuations in our net sales and operating results, which are typical of many specialty retailers and common to most retailers generally. Due to the importance of the fall selling season, which includes Thanksgiving and Christmas, the last quarter of our fiscal year has historically contributed, and is expected to continue to contribute, a disproportionate amount of our net sales, net income and cash flow for the entire fiscal year. We expect this pattern to continue during the current fiscal year and anticipate that in subsequent fiscal years, the last quarter of our fiscal year will continue to contribute disproportionately to our operating results and cash flow. Any factors negatively affecting us during the last quarter of our fiscal year, including unfavorable economic or weather conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, reducing our cash flow, leaving us with excess inventory and making it more difficult for us to finance our capital requirements. We May Experience Significant Variations in Our Quarterly Results. Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly based upon such factors as the timing of new store openings, pre-opening expenses associated with new stores, the relative proportion of new stores to mature stores, net sales contributed by new stores, increases or decreases in comparable store net sales, adverse weather conditions, shifts in the timing of holidays, the timing and level of markdowns, changes in fuel and other shipping costs, changes in our product mix and actions taken by our competitors. The Agreement Governing Our Debt Places Certain Reporting and Consent Requirements on Us Which May Affect Our Ability to Operate Our Business in Accordance with Our Business Strategy. Our senior credit facility contains a number of covenants requiring us to report to our lender or to obtain our lender’s consent in connection with certain activities we may wish to pursue in the operation of our business. These requirements may affect our ability to operate our business and consummate our business strategy and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. These requirements affect our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens; • pay dividends or make other distributions; • make investments; • sell assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • repurchase capital stock; and • enter into certain mergers and consolidations. The senior credit facility has one financial covenant. This covenant requires us to maintain “excess availability,” as defined in our credit agreement, of at least $3 million to $4.5 million depending upon the size of our borrowing base. Any failure to comply with this or other covenants would allow the lenders to accelerate repayment of their debt, prohibit further borrowing under the facility, declare an event of default, take possession of their collateral or take other actions available to a secured senior creditor. If compliance with our debt obligations materially hinders our ability to operate our business and adapt to changing industry conditions, we may lose market share, our revenue may decline and our operating results 15 Table of Contents may suffer. This could have a material adverse effect on the market value and marketability of our common stock. We Are Highly Dependent on Customer Traffic in Malls and Shopping Centers, and Any Reduction in the Overall Level of Traffic Could Reduce Our Net Sales and Increase Our Sales and Marketing Expenses. We rely heavily on the ability of mall and shopping center anchor tenants and other tenants to generate customer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. Historically, we have not relied on extensive media advertising and promotion in order to attract customers to our stores. Our future operating results will also depend on many other factors that are beyond our control, including the overall level of traffic and general economic conditions affecting consumer confidence and spending. Any significant reduction in the overall level of traffic could reduce our net sales. Our Hardware and Software Systems Are Vulnerable to Damage that Could Harm Our Business. We rely upon our existing information systems for operating and monitoring all major aspects of our business, including sales, warehousing, distribution, purchasing, inventory control, merchandise planning and replenishment, as well as various financial functions. These systems and our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • fire, flood and other natural disasters; • power loss, computer systems failures, internet and telecommunications or data network failure, operator negligence, improper operation by or supervision of employees, physical and electronic loss of data or security breaches, misappropriation and similar events; and • computer viruses. Any disruption in the operation of our information systems, the loss of employees knowledgeable about such systems or our failure to continue to effectively modify such systems could interrupt our operations or interfere with our ability to monitor inventory, which could result in reduced net sales and affect our operations and financial performance. We also need to ensure that our systems are consistently adequate to handle our anticipated store growth and are upgraded as necessary to meet our needs. The cost of any such system upgrades or enhancements would be significant. We Depend on Key Personnel, and if We Lose the Services of Any Member of Our Senior Management Team, We May Not Be Able to Run Our Business Effectively. We have benefited substantially from the leadership and performance of our senior management team. Our success will depend on our ability to retain our current senior management members and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and there can be no assurances that we will be able to retain our personnel. The loss of a member of senior management would require the remaining executive officers to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. Our Charter and Bylaw Provisions and Certain Provisions of Tennessee Law May Make It Difficult in Some Respects to Cause a Change in Control of Kirkland’s and Replace Incumbent Management. Our charter authorizes the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, the Board of Directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could materially adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. Holders of the common stock do not have preemptive rights to subscribe for a pro rata portion of any capital stock which may be issued by us. In the event of issuance, such preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change 16 Table of Contents in control of Kirkland’s. Although we have no present intention to issue any new shares of preferred stock, we may do so in the future. Our charter and bylaws contain certain corporate governance provisions that may make it more difficult to challenge management, may deter and inhibit unsolicited changes in control of Kirkland’s and may have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium over the prevailing market price of our common stock in the event of an attempted hostile takeover. First, the charter provides for a classified Board of Directors, with directors (after the expiration of the terms of the initial classified board of directors) serving three year terms from the year of their respective elections and being subject to removal only for cause and upon the vote of 80% of the voting power of all outstanding capital stock entitled to vote (the “Voting Power”). Second, our charter and bylaws do not generally permit shareholders to call, or require that the Board of Directors call, a special meeting of shareholders. The charter and bylaws also limit the business permitted to be conducted at any such special meeting. In addition, Tennessee law permits action to be taken by the shareholders by written consent only if the action is consented to by holders of the number of shares required to authorize shareholder action and if all shareholders entitled to vote are parties to the written consent. Third, the bylaws establish an advance notice procedure for shareholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring other business before meetings of the shareholders. Only those shareholder nominees who are nominated in accordance with this procedure are eligible for election as directors of Kirkland’s, and only such shareholder proposals may be considered at a meeting of shareholders as have been presented to Kirkland’s in accordance with the procedure. Finally, the charter provides that the amendment or repeal of any of the foregoing provisions of the charter mentioned previously in this paragraph requires the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the Voting Power. In addition, the bylaws provide that the amendment or repeal by shareholders of any bylaws made by our Board of Directors requires the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the Voting Power. Furthermore, Kirkland’s is subject to certain provisions of Tennessee law, including certain Tennessee corporate takeover acts that are, or may be, applicable to us. These acts include the Investor Protection Act, the Business Combination Act and the Tennessee Greenmail Act, and these acts seek to limit the parameters in which certain business combinations and share exchanges occur. The charter, bylaws and Tennessee law provisions may have an anti-takeover effect, including possibly discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. Concentration of Ownership among Our Existing Directors, Executive Officers, and Their Affiliates May Prevent New Investors from Influencing Significant Corporate Decisions. As of the date of this filing, our current directors, executive officers and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 42% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these shareholders are able to exercise a controlling influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, and will have significant control over our management and policies. These shareholders may support proposals and actions with which you may disagree or which are not in your interests. 