Risk Factors – Risks Associated with Mining – Metal Price Volatility”). Gold and silver prices are subject to significant volatility and these changes, to the extent that the Company’s production is unhedged, can significantly affect the Company’s profitability and cash flow. Gold prices declined steadily since the latter part of 1996, culminating in August 1999 with the lowest price in twenty-one years, and until the spring of 2002 essentially remained near or below $300 per ounce. Monthly prices over the past financial year for gold have averaged from $383 to $439 per ounce. Silver prices also have been volatile. The Company may utilize forward selling (“hedging”) to protect the selling price of a portion of its gold production. Silver production is sold in the spot market. The market risk to the Company’s cash flow from hedging relates to the possible failure of the counter-parties to honor their commitment to purchase the gold when the price exceeds the appropriate spot price at maturity. Counter-parties to any hedge contracts are large international credit worthy institutions. The market risk to the Company of any gold forward sale contracts would relate to the possibility that the Company may not produce sufficient gold at the appropriate time to meet the obligations as they arise. Dependence on Management The success of the operations and activities of the Company is dependent to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of its management team. See Item 6 for details of Company’s current management. Investors must be willing to rely to a significant extent on their discretion and judgment. The Company does not maintain key employee insurance on any of its employees. Conflicts of Interest The Company’s directors and officers may serve as directors or officers of other resource companies or have significant shareholdings in other resource companies and, to the extent that such other companies may participate in ventures in which the Company may participate, the directors of the Company may have a conflict of interest in negotiating and concluding terms respecting the extent of such participation. In the event that such a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of the Company’s directors, a director who has such a conflict will abstain from voting for or against the approval of such participation or such terms. From time to time several companies may participate in the acquisition, exploration and development of natural resource properties thereby allowing for their participation in larger programs, permitting involvement in a greater number of programs and reducing financial exposure in respect of any one program. It may also occur that a particular company will assign all or a portion of its interest in a particular program to another of these companies due to the financial position of the company making the assignment. In accordance with the laws of the British Columbia, the directors of the Company are required to act honestly, in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. In determining whether or not the Company will participate in a particular program and the interest therein to be acquired by it, the directors will primarily consider the degree of risk to which the Company may be exposed and its financial position at that time. See Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees. 14 Competition for Other Assets Significant and increasing competition exists for the limited number of gold acquisition opportunities available in Canada, the U.S., Central and South America and elsewhere. As a result of this competition, some of which is with large established mining companies having substantial capabilities and substantially greater financial and technical resources than the Company, the Company may be unable to acquire future potential gold mining properties on terms it considers acceptable. The Company also competes with other mining companies in the recruitment and retention of qualified employees. Currency Fluctuations May Affect the Costs of Doing Business The Company’s activities are currently located in, Canada, the United States, Argentina, El Salvador and Chile. Gold and silver are sold in international markets at prices denominated in U.S. dollars. However, some of the costs associated with the Company’s activities in Canada, Chile and El Salvador may be denominated in currencies not directly related to the price of the U.S. dollar. Any appreciation of these currencies vis a vis the U.S. dollar could increase the Company’s cost of doing business in these countries. The Company does not utilize hedging programs to any degree to mitigate the effect of currency movements. The Company’s Insurance Coverage May Be Inadequate The mining industry is subject to significant risks that could result in: • damage to or destruction of property and facilities; • personal injury or death; • environmental damage and pollution; • delays in production; or • expropriation of assets and loss of title to mining claims. While where applicable the Company has purchased property, business interruption (Rawhide only) and liability insurance that it believes is appropriate for the level of risk incurred, it does not carry insurance for political risk, nor environmental damage or pollution because such coverage cannot be purchased at reasonable costs. This lack of insurance coverage could result in material economic harm to the Company if a significant claim against the Company should occur. Changes to the General Mining Law of 1872 The majority of the Denton-Rawhide Mine’s processing activities are located on unpatented lode and millsite claims located on U.S. federal public lands. The right to use such claims are granted under the General Mining Law of 1872. Unpatented mining claims are unique property interests in the United States, and are generally considered to be subject to greater title risk than other real property interests because the validity of unpatented mining claims is often uncertain. This uncertainty arises, in part, out of the complex federal and state laws and regulations under the General Mining Law and the interaction of the General Mining Law and other federal and state laws, such as those enacted for the protection of the environment. Unpatented mining claims are subject to possible challenges of third parties or contests by the federal government. The validity of an unpatented mining claim, in terms of both its location and maintenance, is dependent on strict compliance with a complex body of federal and state statutory or decisional law. In addition, there are few public records that definitively control the issues of validity and ownership of unpatentable mining claims. In recent years, the U.S. Congress has considered a number of proposed amendments to the General Mining Law. If adopted, such legislation could, among other things: 15 • impose a royalty on the production of metals or minerals from unpatented mining claims; • reduce or prohibit the ability of a mining company to expand its operations; and • require a material change in the method of exploiting the reserves located on unpatented mining claims. All of the foregoing could adversely affect the economic and financial viability of operations at Denton-Rawhide. Reclamation Risks at Denton-Rawhide The Denton-Rawhide Mine is an open pit heap leach operation that ceased active mining in October 2002. The final reclamation and closure plan for Denton-Rawhide has been submitted to the Bureau of Land Management and the Nevada Department of Environmental Protection for approval. The Coordinating Committee of the Denton-Rawhide Mine determined, for the purposes of the Reclamation Trust, total reclamation and severance costs for the Denton-Rawhide Mine at $9.8 million of which 49% are to the account of the Company, and contributed to the Trust. This determination of reclamation and severance costs is for the purposes of the Reclamation Trust only and although believed to be sufficient to handle all remaining closing costs may not be a true reflection of actual reclamation and closure costs of the Denton-Rawhide Mine. See Item 4 - Other Properties – Denton-Rawhide for additional information. Increased Costs and Compliance Risks as a Result of Being a Public Company. Legal, accounting and other expenses associated with public company reporting requirements have increased significantly in the past few years. The Company anticipates that costs may continue to increase with recently adopted corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the American Stock Exchange and the Toronto Stock Exchange. The Company expects these rules and regulations, in particular Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to significantly increase its legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Like many smaller public companies, the Company faces a significant impact from required compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires management of public companies to evaluate the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the independent auditors to attest to the effectiveness of such internal controls and the evaluation performed by management. The SEC has adopted rules implementing Section 404 for public companies as well as disclosure requirements. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, has adopted documentation and attestation standards that the independent auditors must follow in conducting the attestation under Section 404. The Company is currently preparing for compliance with Section 404; however, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to effectively meet all of the requirements of Section 404 in the required timeframe. Any failure to effectively implement new or improved internal controls, or to resolve difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations or result in management being required to give a qualified assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting or the Company’s independent auditors providing an adverse opinion regarding management’s assessment. Any such result could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. The Company also expects these new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for it to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. 16 If the Company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, the Company’s ability to provide accurate financial statements and comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could be impaired, which could cause the Company stock price to decrease substantially. 