ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our operations. The risks described below highlight some of the factors that have affected, and in the future could affect our operations. You should carefully consider these risks. These risks are not the only ones that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following events or circumstances described in the followings risks occurs, our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business Failure to sustain or increase our revenues may cause our business and financial results to suffer. We have considerable fixed expenses, and we plan to continue to incur significant expenses, particularly with the expansion of our colocation and data center facilities. We incur a substantial portion of these expenses upfront, and are only able to recover these costs from customers over time. We must, therefore, at least sustain or generate higher revenues to maintain profitability. Although revenue from our data center services segment is growing, that segment has lower margins than our other segments. If we are unable to increase our margins in that segment, our business may suffer. In addition to adding new customers, to increase our revenue, we must sell additional services to existing customers and encourage existing customers to increase their usage levels. If our existing and prospective customers do not perceive our services to be of sufficiently high value and quality, we may not be able to retain our current customers or attract new customers. Our customers have no obligation to renew their contracts for our services after the expiration of their initial commitment, and these service agreements may not be renewed at the same or higher level of service, if at all. Moreover, under some circumstances, some of our customers have the right to cancel their service agreements prior to the expiration of the terms of their agreements. Due to the significant upfront costs of managing data centers, if our customers fail to renew or cancel their service agreements, we may not be able to recover the initial costs resulting from the expansion of our facilities. Numerous factors could affect our ability to increase revenue, either alone or in combination with other factors, including: ● failure to increase sales of our products and services; ● pricing pressures; ● significant increases in bandwidth and data center costs or other operating expenses; ● failure of our services or software to operate as expected; ● loss of customers or inability to attract new customers or loss of existing customers at a rate greater than our increase in new customers; ● inability of a customer to pay our fees on a timely basis or at all or failure to continue to purchase our services in accordance with their contractual commitments; or ● network failures and any breach or unauthorized access to our network. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including: ● their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our services; ● the prices of our services and those of our competitors; ● discontinuation by our customers of their Internet or web-based content distribution businesses; ● mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base; and ● reduction in our customers’ spending levels. - 9 - - If our customers do not renew their service agreements with us or if they renew on less favorable terms, our revenue may decline and our business may suffer. Similarly, our customer agreements often provide for minimum commitments that are often significantly below our customers’ historical usage levels. Consequently, even if we have agreements with our customers to use our services, these customers could significantly curtail their usage without incurring any penalties under our agreements. In this event, our revenue would be lower than expected and our operating results could suffer. Pricing pressure could decrease our revenue and threaten the attractiveness of our premium priced services. Pricing for Internet connectivity services has declined significantly in recent years and may decline in the future. An economic downturn, such as the one the worldwide economy is now experiencing, could further contribute to this effect. We currently charge, and expect to continue to charge, premium prices for our high performance IP services compared to the prices charged by our competitors for their connectivity services. By bundling their services and reducing the overall cost of their solutions, certain of our competitors may be able to provide customers with reduced communications costs in connection with their Internet connectivity services or private network services, thereby significantly increasing the pressure on us to decrease our prices. Increased price competition, significant price deflation and other related competitive pressures could erode our revenue and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations if we are unable to control or reduce our costs. Because we rely on NSPs to deliver our services and have agreed with some of these providers to purchase minimum amounts of service at predetermined prices, our profitability could be adversely affected by competitive price reductions to our customers even if accompanied with an increased number of customers. In light of economic factors and technological advances, companies that require Internet connectivity have evaluated and will continue to evaluate the cost of such services, particularly high performance connectivity services such as those we currently offer. Consequently, existing and potential customers may be less willing to pay premium prices for high performance Internet connectivity services and may choose to purchase lower quality services at lower prices, which could materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, prices for content delivery services have fallen in recent years and may continue to fall further in the future. If the price that we are able to charge customers to deliver their content falls to a greater extent than we anticipate, if we over-estimate future demand for our services or if our costs to deliver our services do not fall commensurate with any future price declines, we may not be able to achieve acceptable rates of return on our infrastructure investments, and our gross profit and results of operations may suffer dramatically. We have a history of losses and may not sustain profitability. We incurred net losses in each quarterly and annual period since we began operations in May 1996 through the year ended December 31, 2005. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we recognized net loss of $104.8 million, net loss of $5.6 million and net income of $3.7 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $966.8 million. Considering the competitive and evolving nature of the industry in which we operate, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, and our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, including our ability to raise additional funds. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. The Internet connectivity and IP services market is highly competitive, as evidenced by recent declines in pricing for Internet connectivity services. The content delivery market is also highly competitive and rapidly changing. We expect competition from existing competitors to continue to intensify in the future, and we may not have the financial resources, technical expertise, sales and marketing abilities or support capabilities to compete successfully. Our competitors currently include: regional Bell operating companies that offer Internet access; global, national and regional NSPs and ISPs; providers of specific applications or solutions such as content delivery, security or storage; software-based and other Internet infrastructure providers and manufacturers; and colocation and data center providers. In addition, NSPs and ISPs may make technological advancements, such as the introduction of improved routing protocols to enhance the quality of their services, which could negatively impact the demand for our products and services. In addition, we expect that we will face additional competition as we expand our managed services product offerings, including competition from technology and telecommunications companies. A number of telecommunications companies, NSPs and ISPs have offered or expanded their network services. Further, the ability of some of these potential competitors to bundle other services and products with their network services could place us at a competitive disadvantage. Various companies also are exploring the possibility of providing, or are currently providing, high-speed, intelligent data services that use connections to more than one network or use alternative delivery methods, including the cable television infrastructure, direct broadcast satellites and wireless local loop. Many of our existing and future competitors may have greater market presence, engineering and marketing capabilities and financial, technological and personnel resources than we have. As a result, our competitors may have significant advantages over us and may be able to respond more quickly to emerging technologies and ensuing customer demands. Increased competition and technological advancements by our competitors could materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. - 10 - - We previously identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which prevented us from accurately reporting our financial results in a timely manner. We cannot guarantee that in the future we will not identify another material weakness, which could prevent us from accurately reporting our financial results in a future period in a timely manner, which could in turn adversely affect our business. We must maintain effective internal controls to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and prevent fraud. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we assess the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In connection with our evaluation of internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2007, we identified a material weakness related to effective controls over the analysis of requests for sales credits and billing adjustments to provide timely information for management to assess the completeness, accuracy, valuation and disclosure of sales adjustments. We remediated these weaknesses during the year ended December 31, 2008. However, we may also discover in the future additional areas of our internal controls that need improvement. We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we may be required to take in the future will sufficiently address and eliminate any identified material weakness. Any additional deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we may identify in the future could require us to incur significant costs, expend significant time and management resources or make other changes. Any delay or failure to design and implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation or operation may cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations or prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial reports or avoiding or detecting fraud. Disclosure of this material weakness, any failure to remediate such material weakness in a timely fashion or having or maintaining ineffective internal controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. If we are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to improve the performance and features of our existing products and services or adapt our business model to keep pace with industry trends, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our industry is constantly evolving. The process of developing new services and the technologies that support them is expensive, time and labor intensive and uncertain. We may fail to understand the market demand for new services or not be able to overcome technical problems with new services. In addition, our customers’ needs may change in ways that we do not anticipate and these changes could eliminate our customers’ needs for our services and render our products and services obsolete. Our future success depends on our ability to respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing or introducing new products, product upgrades and services on a timely basis. New product development and introduction involves a significant commitment of time and resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges including: ● managing the length of the development cycle for new products and product enhancements, which historically has been longer than expected; ● adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to technological developments by our competitors and customers; ● extending the operation of our products and services to new platforms and operating systems; ● entering into new or unproven markets where we have limited experience; ● managing new product and service strategies and integrating those with our existing products and services; ● incorporating acquired products and technologies; ● trade compliance issues affecting our ability to ship new products to international markets; ● developing or expanding efficient sales channels; and ● obtaining required technology licenses and technical access from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to enable the development and deployment of interoperable products. In addition, if we cannot adapt our business models to keep pace with industry trends, our revenue could be negatively impacted. If we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new products, product upgrades and services are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, we may lose market share, resulting in a decrease in our revenues and earnings. - 11 - - Many of our current and potential customers are pursuing emerging or unproven business models and the demand for our services and products may decline if such models are unsuccessful. The need for a content delivery network is a recent technological advancement and our customers’ business models that rely on the delivery of streaming video and other content remain unproven. These customers will not continue to purchase our products and services if their investment does not generate a sufficient return. Deteriorating global economic conditions may make it more difficult for our customers to achieve successful and sustainable returns from business models. A reduction in spending on CDN services by such customers could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. We may lose customers if they elect to develop solutions internally. Our customers and potential customers may decide to develop their own IP or content delivery solutions rather than outsource these solutions to services providers like us. In addition, our customers could decide to host their Internet applications internally bypassing outside vendors like us. This is particularly true as our customers increase their operations and spend greater resources on delivering their content using third-party solutions. If we fail to offer IP, data center or CDN services that compete favorably with in-sourced solutions, we may lose customers or fail to attract customers that may consider pursuing this in-sourced approach, and our business and financial results would suffer. We depend on a number of NSPs to provide Internet connectivity to our network access points. If we are unable to obtain required connectivity services on a cost-effective basis, or at all, or if such services are interrupted or terminated, our growth prospects and business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. In delivering our services, we rely on a number of Internet networks, many of which are built and operated by others. In order to provide high performance connectivity services to our customers through our network access points, we purchase connections from several NSPs. We can offer no assurances that these NSPs will continue to provide service to us on a cost-effective basis or on otherwise competitive terms, if at all, or that these providers will provide us with additional capacity to adequately meet customer demand or to expand our business. Consolidation among NSPs limits the number of vendors from which we obtain service, possibly resulting in higher network costs to us. We may be unable to establish and maintain relationships with other NSPs that may emerge or that are significant in geographic areas, such as Asia, India and Europe, in which we may locate our future network access points. Any of these situations could limit our growth prospects and materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend on third party suppliers for services and key elements of our network infrastructure. If we are unable to obtain products or services, such as network access loops or local loops, on favorable terms, or at all, or in the event of a failure of these suppliers to deliver their products and services as agreed, our ability to provide our services on a competitive and timely basis may be impaired and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition to depending on services from third party NSPs, we depend on other companies to supply various key elements of our infrastructure, including the network access loops between our network access points and our NSPs and the local loops between our network access points and our customers’ networks. Pricing for such network access loops and local loops has risen significantly over time, and we generally bill these charges to our customers at low or no margin. Some of our competitors have their own network access loops and local loops and are, therefore, not subject to similar availability and pricing issues. In addition, we currently purchase routers and switches from a limited number of vendors. Furthermore, we do not carry significant inventories of the products we purchase, and we have no guaranteed supply arrangements with our vendors. A loss of a significant vendor could delay any build-out of our infrastructure and increase our costs. If our limited source of suppliers fails to provide products or services that comply with evolving Internet standards or that interoperate with other products or services we use in our network infrastructure, we may be unable to meet all or a portion of our customer service commitments, which could materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to third-party controlled end-user access networks. Our CDN services depend on our ability to access certain end-user access networks. We achieve this access through mutually beneficial cooperation with these end-user access networks in order to complete the delivery of rich media and other online content to end-users. Some operators of these networks may take measures, such as the deployment of a variety of filters, that could degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of our or our customers’ access to certain of these end-user access networks by restricting or prohibiting the use of their networks to support or facilitate our services, or by charging increased fees to us, our customers or end-users in connection with our services. This or other types of interference could result in a loss of existing customers, increased costs and impairment of our ability to attract new customers, thereby harming our revenue and growth. If in the future a significant percentage of these network operators elected to no longer allow unimpeded access to our CDN, our costs could increase as we replace the network operators, the performance of our infrastructure could be diminished, or both, and our business could suffer. - 12 - - The increased use of high-power density equipment may limit our ability to fully utilize our data centers. Customers continue to increase their use of high-power density equipment, such as blade servers, in our data centers, which has significantly increased the demand for power on a per cabinet basis. The current demand for electrical power may exceed our designed capacity in these facilities. As electrical power, not space, is typically the primary factor limiting capacity in our data centers, our ability to fully utilize our data centers may be limited in these facilities. If we are unable to adequately utilize our data centers, our ability to grow our business cost-effectively could be materially and adversely affected. Our business could be harmed by prolonged electrical power outages or shortages, increased costs of energy or general availability of electrical resources. In addition, a failure in the redundancies in our network operations centers, network access points or computer systems could cause a significant disruption in our IP services, and we may experience significant disruptions in our ability to service our customers. Our data centers and P-NAPs are susceptible to regional costs and supply of power, electrical power shortages, planned or unplanned power outages or natural disasters and limitations, especially internationally, and availability of adequate power resources. Power outages could harm our customers and our business. We attempt to limit exposure to system downtime by using backup generators and uninterruptible power systems. We may not be able to limit our exposure entirely, however, even with these protections in place, as has been the case with power outages we have experienced in the past and may experience in the future. In addition, our energy costs have recently increased and may continue to increase for a variety of reasons including increased pressure on legislators to pass green legislation. As energy costs increase, we may not be able to pass on to our customers the increased cost of energy, which could harm our business and operating results. If we experience a problem at our network operations centers, including the failure of redundant systems, we may be unable to provide IP services to our customers, provide customer service and support or monitor our network infrastructure or network access points, any of which would seriously harm our business and operating results. Also, because we provide continuous Internet availability under our SLAs, we may be required to issue a significant amount of customer credits as a result of such interruptions in service. These credits could negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. In addition, interruptions in service to our customers could harm our customer relations, expose us to potential lawsuits and require additional capital expenditures. In each of our markets, we rely on utility companies to provide a sufficient amount of power for current and future customers. We generally do not control the amount of power our customers draw from their installed circuits. Because we rely on third parties to provide power, we cannot ensure that these third parties will deliver such power in adequate quantities or on a consistent basis. At the same time, power and cooling requirements are growing on a per unit basis. As a result, some customers are consuming an increasing amount of power per cabinet. We do not have long-term power agreements in all our markets for long-term guarantees of provisioned amounts and may face power limitations in our centers. This limitation could have a negative impact on the effective available capacity of a given data center and limit our ability to grow our business, which could have a negative impact on our relationships with our customers as well as our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A significant number of our network access points are located in facilities owned and operated by third parties. In many of those arrangements, we do not have property rights similar to those customarily possessed by a lessee or subtenant but instead have lesser rights of occupancy. In certain situations, the financial condition of those parties providing occupancy to us could have an adverse impact on the continued occupancy arrangement or the level of service delivered to us under such arrangements. Any failure of the physical infrastructure in our data service centers could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could reduce our revenue and harm our business reputation, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business depends on providing customers with highly reliable service. We must protect our infrastructure and our customers’ data and their equipment located in our data centers. The services we provide in each of our data centers are subject to failure resulting from numerous factors, including: ● human error; ● physical or electronic security breaches; ● fire, earthquake, hurricane, flood, tornado and other natural disasters; ● improper building maintenance by the landlords of the buildings in which our data centers are located; ● water damage; ● extreme temperatures; - 13 - - ● fiber cuts; ● power loss or equipment failure; ● sabotage and vandalism; and ● failures experienced by underlying service providers upon which our business relies. Problems at one or more of the data centers operated by us or any of our colocation providers, whether or not within our control, could result in service interruptions or significant equipment damage. We have service level commitment obligations to most of our customers. As a result, service interruptions or equipment damage in our data centers could result in difficulty maintaining service level commitments to these customers and potential claims related to such failures. We have in the past given credits to our customers as a result of service interruptions due to equipment failures. Because our data centers are critical to many of our customers’ businesses, service interruptions or significant equipment damage in our data centers also could result in lost profits or other indirect or consequential damages to our customers. We cannot guarantee that a court would enforce any contractual limitations on our liability in the event that a customer brings a lawsuit against us as the result of a problem at one of our data centers. If we incur significant financial commitments to our customers in connection with a loss of power or we fail to meet other service level commitment obligations, our revenue reserves may not be adequate. In addition, any loss of services, equipment damage or inability to meet our service level commitment obligations could reduce the confidence of our customers and could consequently impair our ability to obtain and retain customers, which would adversely affect both our ability to generate revenues and our operating results. Furthermore, we are dependent upon NSPs and telecommunications carriers in the United States, Europe, Asia, India and Australia, some of whom have experienced significant system failures and electrical outages in the past. Users of our services may experience difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems and services. If, for any reason, these providers fail to provide the required services, our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. No ultimate prevention or defense against denial of service attacks exists. During a prolonged denial of service attack, Internet service may not be available for several hours, thus negatively impacting hosted customers’ on-line business transactions. Affected customers might file claims against us under such circumstances, and our property and liability insurance may not be adequate to cover these claims. Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate, which could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. We have experienced fluctuations in our results of operations on a quarterly and annual basis. The fluctuation in our operating results may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We expect to experience continued fluctuations in our operating results in the foreseeable future due to a variety of factors, including: ● competition and the introduction of new services by our competitors; ● continued pricing pressures resulting from competitors’ strategies or excess bandwidth supply; ● fluctuations in the demand and sales cycle for our services; ● fluctuations in the market for qualified sales and other personnel; ● changes in the prices for Internet connectivity we pay to NSPs; ● the cost and availability of adequate public utilities, including power; ● our ability to obtain local loop connections to our network access points at favorable prices; ● integration of people, operations, products and technologies of acquired businesses; ● general economic conditions; and ● any impairments or restructurings charges that we may incur in the future. - 14 - - In addition, fluctuations in our results of operations may arise from strategic decisions we have made or may make with respect to the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures such as those associated with the expansion of our data center facilities, the deployment of additional network access points and the terms of our network connectivity purchase agreements. These and other factors discussed in this Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, a relatively large portion of our expenses are fixed in the short-term, particularly with respect to lease and personnel expense, depreciation and amortization and interest expense. Our results of operations, therefore, are particularly sensitive to fluctuations in revenue. Because our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future, we can offer no assurance that the results of any particular period are an indication of future performance in our business operations. Fluctuations in our results of operations could have a negative impact on our ability to raise additional capital and execute our business plan. Our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our stock. We have acquired and may acquire other businesses, and these acquisitions involve integration and other risks that could harm our business. We may pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses, products, services and technologies to expand our geographic footprint, enhance our existing services, expand our service offerings and enlarge our customer base. If we complete future acquisitions, we may be required to incur or assume additional debt, make capital expenditures or issue additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock as consideration, which would dilute our existing stockholders’ ownership interest and may adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to grow through acquisitions involves a number of additional risks, including the following: ● the ability to identify and consummate complementary acquisitions; ● the possibility that we may not be able to integrate the operations, personnel, technologies, products and services of the acquired companies in a timely and efficient manner or achieve the level of quality in such businesses to which our customers are accustomed; ● diversion of management’s attention from other ongoing business concerns; ● insufficient revenue to offset significant unforeseen costs, including transaction costs, and increased expenses associated with the acquisitions; ● challenges in completing projects associated with in-process research and development being conducted by the acquired businesses; ● risks associated with entering markets in which we have little or no prior experience or where competitors have a stronger market presence; ● deferral of purchasing decisions by current and potential customers as they evaluate the likelihood of success of our acquisitions; ● incurring or assuming contingent liabilities and amortization expense for acquired intangible assets; ● incurring acquisition liabilities as a result of integrating acquired businesses; ● difficulties in successfully integrating the management teams and employees of both companies; and ● loss of key employees of the acquired companies. Failure to effectively manage our growth through acquisitions could adversely affect our growth prospects, business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any failure to meet our debt obligations would damage our business. As of December 31, 2008, our total long-term debt, including capital leases, was $23.2 million. If we use more cash than we generate in the future, our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our future operations by increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions and by limiting or prohibiting our ability to obtain additional financing for future capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes. In addition, if we are unable to make interest or principal payments when due, we would be in default under the terms of our long-term debt obligations, which would result in all principal and interest becoming due and payable which, in turn, would seriously harm our business. - 15 - - The terms of our existing credit agreement impose restrictions upon us. The terms of our existing credit agreement impose operating and financial restrictions on us and require us to meet certain financial tests. These restrictions may also have a negative impact on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by significantly limiting or prohibiting us from engaging in certain transactions. Our credit agreement contains certain covenants, including covenants that restrict our ability to incur further indebtedness, make acquisitions or investments, make certain capital expenditures, create liens on our assets and require us to maintain minimum liquidity. If we do not satisfy these covenants we would be in default under the credit agreement. Any defaults, if not waived, could result in the lender ceasing to make loans or extending credit to us, accelerating or declaring all or any obligations immediately due or taking possession of or liquidating collateral. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance the credit agreement on terms that are acceptable to us, which could materially and adversely impact our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As of December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with the various loan covenants required by the credit agreement. Our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks that may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. As of December 31, 2008, we held $6.4 million of auction rate securities classified as non-current investments. Auction rate securities are variable rate bonds tied to short-term interest rates with maturities on the face of the securities in excess of 90 days and have interest rate resets through a modified Dutch auction, at predetermined short-term intervals, usually every seven, 28 or 35 days. Auction rate securities generally trade at par value and are callable at par value on any interest payment date at the option of the issuer. Interest received during a given period is based upon the interest rate determined through the auction process. The underlying assets of our auction rate securities are state-issued student and educational loans that are substantially backed by the federal government and carried AAA/Aaa ratings as of December 31, 2008. Although these securities are issued and rated as long-term bonds, they have historically been priced and traded as short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the interest rate resets. While we continue to earn and accrue interest on our auction rate securities at contractual rates, these investments are not currently trading. Due to the uncertainty as to when the auction rate securities markets will improve, we have classified our auction rate securities as non-current investments as of December 31, 2008. In October 2008, we received an offer providing us with rights, or ARS Rights, from one of our investment providers to sell at par value auction rate securities originally purchased from the investment provider ($7.2 million) at anytime during a two-year period beginning June 30, 2010. On November 14, 2008, we accepted the offer and intend to exercise the ARS Rights if we are otherwise unable to recover par value on the securities at an earlier date. Continued overcapacity in the Internet connectivity and IP services market, adverse experience in the CDN services market or delay in subleasing certain of our locations may result in our recording additional goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges, restructuring charges or both. We are required to assess goodwill for impairment under GAAP at least annually. We perform our annual goodwill impairment test as of August 1 of each calendar year, following our annual strategic planning cycle, which includes an update of our long-term financial outlook. As a result of our August 1, 2008 assessment, we concluded that the current carrying value of our goodwill in the CDN services reporting unit was impaired. We recorded the CDN services goodwill following our February 2007 acquisition of VitalStream. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a $99.7 million goodwill impairment charge to adjust goodwill in our CDN services segment to an implied fair value of $54.7 million. The impairment also caused us to reverse a deferred tax liability and create an income tax benefit of $0.6 million associated with the CDN services goodwill for the year ended December 31, 2008. In conjunction with our review of our long-term financial outlook, we also performed an analysis of the potential impairment, and re-assessed the remaining asset lives, of other identifiable intangible assets acquired in the VitalStream acquisition. This analysis and re-assessment resulted in, during the year ended December 31, 2008: (1) an impairment charge of $1.9 million in developed advertising technology due to a strategic change in market focus, (2) an impairment charge of $0.8 million in trade names as a result of discontinuing use of the VitalStream trade name and (3) a change in our estimates that resulted in acceleration of amortization expense of our customer relationships intangible asset over a shorter estimated useful life (four remaining years instead of the original estimated nine years) due to customer churn resulting in higher than expected attrition as of our acquisition date. We also assessed the likelihood of triggering events and concluded that none had occurred that would cause us to re-assess goodwill for impairment subsequent to August 1, 2008. However, we may incur additional restructuring or impairment charges in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. - 16 - - Furthermore, when circumstances warrant, we may elect to exit certain business activities or change the manner in which we conduct ongoing operations. When we make such a change, we will estimate the costs to exit a business or restructure ongoing operations. The components of the estimates may include estimates and assumptions regarding the timing and costs of future events and activities that represent our best expectations based on known facts and circumstances at the time of estimation. Should circumstances warrant, we will adjust our previous estimates to reflect what we then believe to be a more accurate representation of expected future costs. Because our estimates and assumptions regarding restructuring costs include probabilities of future events, such as the ability to find a sublease tenant within a reasonable period of time or the rate at which a sublease tenant will pay for the available space, such estimates are inherently vulnerable to changes due to unforeseen circumstances that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. If we do not find a sublease tenant for one of our more significant restructured locations by the end of the second quarter of 2010 or if we do not obtain a certain rate per square foot for the available space, we will need to take an additional charge in our statement of operations that may be material. We monitor market conditions at each period end reporting date and will continue to assess our key assumptions and estimates used in the calculation of our restructuring accrual. If we are unable to deploy new network access points or do not adequately control expenses associated with the deployment of new network access points, our results of operations could be adversely affected. As part of our strategy, we may continue to expand our network access points, particularly into new geographic markets. We face various risks associated with identifying, obtaining and integrating attractive network access point sites, negotiating leases for data centers on competitive terms, cost estimation errors or overruns, delays in connecting with local exchanges, equipment and material delays or shortages, the inability to obtain necessary permits on a timely basis, if at all, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and all of which could delay the deployment of new network access points. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to open and operate new network access points on a timely or profitable basis. Deployment of new network access points will increase operating expenses, including expenses associated with hiring, training, retaining and managing new employees, provisioning capacity from NSPs, purchasing new equipment, implementing new systems, leasing additional real estate and incurring additional depreciation expense. If we are unable to control our expenses as we expand in geographically dispersed locations, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our international operations may not be successful. We have limited experience operating internationally and have only recently begun to achieve successful international experiences. We currently have network access points or CDN POPs in London, Hong Kong, Singapore, Sydney, Amsterdam and Mumbai. We also participate in a joint venture with NTT-ME Corporation and Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation, or NTT Holdings, that operates network access points in Tokyo and Osaka, Japan. As part of our strategy to expand our geographic markets, we may develop or acquire network access points or complementary businesses in additional international markets. The risks associated with expansion of our international business operations include: ● challenges in establishing and maintaining relationships with foreign customers as well as foreign NSPs and local vendors, including data center and local network operators; ● challenges in staffing and managing network operations centers and network access points across disparate geographic areas; ● potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than the laws in the United States; ● challenges in reducing operating expense or other costs required by local laws, and longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; ● exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; ● costs of customizing network access points for foreign countries and customers; ● requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that reduce the flexibility of our business operations; ● protectionist laws and practices favoring local competition; ● deteriorating economic conditions in foreign markets; ● political and economic instability; and ● compliance with governmental regulations. - 17 - - We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to address the risks associated with our international operations, which may limit our international sales growth and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Disputes with vendors regarding the delivery of services may materially impact our results of operations and cash flows. In delivering our services, we rely on a number of Internet network, telecommunication and other vendors. We work directly with these vendors to provide services such as establishing, modifying or discontinuing services for our customers. Because of the volume of activity, billing disputes inevitably arise. These disputes typically stem from disagreements concerning the starting and ending dates of service, quoted rates, usage and various other factors. We research and discuss disputed costs, both in the vendors’ favor and our favor, with vendors on an ongoing basis until ultimately resolved. We record the cost and liability based on our estimate of the most likely outcome of the dispute. We periodically review and, if necessary, modify these estimates in light of new information or developments, if any. Because estimates regarding disputed costs include assessments of uncertain outcomes, such estimates are inherently vulnerable to changes due to unforeseen circumstances that could materially and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our inability to renew our data center leases on favorable terms could have a negative impact on our financial results. Our leased data centers have lease terms that expire between 2010 and 2023. The majority of these leases provide us with the opportunity to renew the lease at our option for periods generally ranging from five to 10 years. Many of these options however, if renewed, provide that rent for the renewal period will be equal to the fair market rental rate at the time of renewal. If the fair market rental rates are significantly higher than our current rental rates, we may be unable to offset these costs by charging more for our services, which could have a negative impact on our financial results. Our business requires the continued development of effective business support systems to support our customer growth and related services. The growth of our business depends on our ability to continue to develop effective business support systems. This is a complicated undertaking requiring significant resources and expertise. Business support systems are needed for: ● implementing customer orders for services; ● delivering these services; and ● timely billing for these services. Because our business plan provides for continued growth in the number of customers that we serve and services offered, there is a need to continue to develop our business support systems on a schedule sufficient to meet proposed service rollout dates. The failure to continue to develop effective business support systems could harm our ability to implement our business plans and meet our financial goals and objectives. We depend upon our key employees and may be unable to attract or retain sufficient numbers of qualified personnel. Our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our executive management team and other key employees. To the extent we are able to expand our operations and deploy additional network access points, we may need to increase our workforce. Accordingly, our future success depends on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain highly skilled management, technical, sales, marketing and customer support personnel. Competition for qualified employees is intense, and we compete for qualified employees with companies that may have greater financial resources than we have. Our employment security plan with our executive officers provides that either party may terminate their employment at any time. Consequently, we may not be successful in attracting, hiring, training and retaining the people we need, which would seriously impede our ability to implement our business strategy. Our senior management team has not had time to develop a working relationship with our new Chief Executive Officer and President which could result in not being able to manage our business effectively. We have hired a new Chief Executive Officer and President effective March 16, 2009. Accordingly, our senior management team has not had time to develop a working relationship with our new Chief Executive Officer and President. If the full senior management team is not able to develop a strong and effective working relationship, our management team’s ability to quickly and efficiently respond to problems and effectively manage our business could be adversely impacted. - 18 - - Changes in our senior management team during the past several years also have resulted in paying significant severance and hiring costs. If we continue to experience similar levels of turnover in our senior management team, the costs of such changes could harm our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, we may lose rights to some of our most valuable assets. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property law, nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to protect our proprietary rights. We also utilize unpatented proprietary know-how and trade secrets and employ various methods to protect such intellectual property. We believe our intellectual property rights are significant and that the loss of all or a substantial portion of such rights could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We can offer no assurance that our intellectual property protection measures will be sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, the laws of many foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States. From time-to-time, third parties have or may assert infringement claims against us or against our customers in connection with their use of our products or services. In addition, we rely on the intellectual property of others. We may desire or be required to renew or to obtain licenses from these other parties in order to further develop and market commercially viable products or services effectively. We can offer no assurance that any necessary licenses will be available on reasonable terms. We may face litigation and liability due to claims of infringement of third party intellectual property rights. The Internet services industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. From time-to-time, third parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. Any claims that our products or services infringe or may infringe proprietary rights of third parties, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could significantly harm our operating results. In addition, our customer agreements generally provide for us to indemnify our customers for expenses and liabilities resulting from claimed infringement of patents or copyrights of third parties, subject to certain limitations. If an infringement claim against us were to be successful, and we were not able to obtain a license to the relevant technology or a substitute technology on acceptable terms or redesign our products or services to avoid infringement, our ability to compete successfully in our market would be materially impaired. If our ability to deliver media files in certain formats is restricted or becomes cost-prohibitive, demand for our services would decline and our financial results would suffer. Our CDN products and services depend on our ability to deliver media content in all major formats. If our legal right to store and deliver content in certain formats, like Adobe Flash or Windows Media, for example, was limited, we could not serve our customers and the demand for our services would decline. Owners of proprietary content formats may be able to block, restrict or impose fees or other costs on our use of such formats, leading to additional expenses or prevent our delivery of this type of content, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We are currently subject to a securities class action lawsuit, the unfavorable outcome of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On November 12, 2008, a putative securities fraud class action lawsuit was filed against us and our Chief Executive Officer, James P. DeBlasio, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia, captioned Catherine Anastasio and Stephen Anastasio v. Internap Network Services Corp. and James P. DeBlasio, Civil Action No. 1:08-CV-3462-JOF. The complaint alleges that we and the individual defendant violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and that the individual defendant also violated Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act as a “control person” of Internap. Plaintiffs purport to bring these claims on behalf of a class of our investors who purchased our stock between March 28, 2007 and March 18, 2008. Plaintiffs allege generally that, during the putative class period, we made misleading statements and omitted material information regarding (1) integration of VitalStream, (2) customer issues and related credits due to services outages, and (3) our previously reported 2007 revenue that we subsequently reduced in 2008 as announced on March 18, 2008. Plaintiffs assert that we and the individual defendant made these misstatements and omissions in order to keep our stock price high. Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages and other relief. While we intend to vigorously contest this lawsuit, we cannot determine the final resolution of this lawsuit or when it might be resolved. In addition to the expenses incurred in defending this litigation and any damages that may be awarded in the event of an adverse ruling, our management’s efforts and attention may be diverted from the ordinary business operations to address these claims. Regardless of the outcome, this litigation may have a material adverse impact on our results because of defense costs, including costs related to our indemnification obligations, diversion of resources and other factors. - 19 - - We may become involved in other litigation that may adversely affect us. In the ordinary course of business, we are or may become involved in litigation, administrative proceedings and governmental proceedings. Such matters can be time-consuming, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. Furthermore, the results of any such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Industry We cannot predict with certainty the future evolution of the high performance Internet connectivity market, and therefore the role of our products and services. We face the risk that the market for high performance Internet connectivity services might develop more slowly or differently than currently projected, or that our services may not achieve continued widespread market acceptance. Furthermore, we may be unable to market and sell our services successfully and cost-effectively to a sufficiently large number of customers. We typically charge a premium for our services, which may affect market acceptance of our services or adversely impact the rate of market acceptance. We believe the danger of non-acceptance is particularly acute during economic slowdowns, which exert significant pricing pressure on NSPs. If the Internet becomes subject to a form of central management, or if NSPs establish an economic settlement arrangement regarding the exchange of traffic between Internet networks, the demand for our IP services could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to respond effectively and on a timely basis to rapid technological change, we may lose or fail to establish a competitive advantage in our market. Our industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, industry standards and customer needs, as well as by frequent new product and service introductions. New technologies and industry standards have the potential to replace or provide lower cost alternatives to our services. The adoption of such new technologies or industry standards could render our existing services obsolete and unmarketable. Our failure to anticipate the prevailing standard, to adapt our technology to any changes in the prevailing standard or the failure of a common standard to emerge could materially and adversely affect our business. Our pursuit of necessary technological advances may require substantial time and expense, and we may be unable to successfully adapt our network and services to alternative access devices and technologies. Rapidly evolving technologies or new business models could cause demand for our services to decline or could cause these services to become obsolete. Customers or third parties may develop technological or business model innovations that address their requirements in a manner that is, or is perceived to be, equivalent or superior to our services. If competitors introduce new products or services that compete with or surpass the quality or the price/performance of our services, we may be unable to renew our agreements with existing customers or attract new customers at the prices and levels that allow us to generate attractive rates of return on our investment. For example, one or more third parties might develop improvements to current peer-to-peer technology, which is a technology that relies upon the computing power and bandwidth of its participants, such that this technological approach is better able to deliver content in a way that is competitive to our CDN services, or even that makes CDN services obsolete. We may not anticipate such developments and may be unable to adequately compete with these potential solutions. In addition, our customers’ business models may change in ways that we do not anticipate and these changes could reduce or eliminate our customers’ needs for CDN services. If this occurred, we could lose customers or potential customers, and our business and financial results would suffer. As a result of these or similar potential developments, in the future it is possible that competitive dynamics in our market may require us to reduce our prices, which could harm our revenue, gross margin and operating results. Our network and software are subject to potential security breaches and similar threats that could result in our liability for damages and harm our reputation. A number of widespread and disabling attacks on public and private networks have occurred recently. The number and severity of these attacks may increase in the future as network assailants take advantage of outdated software, security breaches or incompatibility between or among networks. Computer viruses, intrusions and similar disruptive problems could cause us to be liable for damages under agreements with our customers, and our reputation could suffer, thereby deterring potential customers from working with us. Security problems or other attacks caused by third parties could lead to interruptions and delays, or to the cessation of service to our customers. Furthermore, inappropriate use of the network by third parties could also jeopardize the security of confidential information stored in our computer systems and in those of our customers and could expose us to liability under unsolicited commercial e-mail, or “spam,” regulations. In the past, third parties have occasionally circumvented some of these industry-standard measures. We can offer no assurance that the measures we implement will not be circumvented. Our efforts to eliminate computer viruses and alleviate other security problems, or any circumvention of those efforts, may result in increased costs, interruptions, delays or cessation of service to our customers, which could hurt our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. - 20 - - If the world-wide financial crisis intensifies, potential disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our business, including our ability to meet long-term commitments and our ability to grow our business. The global economy is currently experiencing a significant contraction, with an almost unprecedented lack of availability of business and consumer credit. We rely on the credit markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. Long-term disruptions in the capital and credit market, similar to those that have been experienced during 2008, could result from uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions and could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures and reducing or eliminating discretionary uses of cash. Besides our cash on hand and any financing activities we may pursue, customer collections are our primary source of cash. While we believe we have a well diversified customer base and no concentration of credit risk with any single customer, if the current market conditions continue to deteriorate, we may experience increased churn in our customer base, including reductions in their commitments to us. This could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts and ultimately could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Continued market disruptions could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for our services and increased incidence of customers’ inability to pay their accounts. Further, bankruptcies or similar events by customers may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. These events would adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. We may be unable to draw down on existing credit facilities if our current lender fails and we may be unable to access, at all or on acceptable terms, alternative sources of credit or the debt capital markets due to the global disruptions in these markets. The turmoil in the financial services industry has led to the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of several large financial institutions. Despite an unprecedented level of intervention from both the United States federal government and certain European governments, there can be no assurance that government responses to this crisis will stabilize the credit and debt capital markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit generally. Deteriorating market and liquidity conditions also may give rise to issues which may impact our lender’s ability to hold debt commitments to us to their full term. Accordingly, while this would be highly unusual, our lender could attempt to call this debt which would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, even though no call provisions exist without being in default. Our ability to meet our obligations depends on the financial health of our lenders, their ability to meet their own obligations under our credit facilities and the availability of the credit markets generally. Finally, our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to pursue additional expansion opportunities and maintain our desired level of revenue growth in the future. Terrorist activity throughout the world and military action to counter terrorism could adversely impact our business. The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility may have an adverse effect on business, financial and general economic conditions internationally. Effects from any future terrorist activity, including cyber terrorism, may, in turn, increase our costs due to the need to provide enhanced security, which would adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These circumstances may also damage or destroy the Internet infrastructure and may materially and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, our ability to raise capital and the operation and maintenance of our network access points. If governments modify or increase regulation of the Internet, the provision of our services could become more costly. International bodies and federal, state and local governments have adopted a number of laws and regulations that affect the Internet and are likely to continue to seek to implement additional laws and regulations. In addition, federal and state agencies are actively considering regulation of various aspects of the Internet, including taxation of transactions, imposition of access fees for VoIP and enhanced data privacy and retention legislation. The Federal Communications Commission and state agencies also review the regulatory requirements, if any, that should be applicable to VoIP. If we seek to offer additional products and services, we could be required to obtain additional authorizations from regulatory agencies. We may not be able to obtain such authorizations in a timely manner, or at all, and conditions could be imposed upon such authorization that may not be favorable to us. - 21 - - In 2007, the Internet Tax Freedom Act Amendment Acts of 2007 was signed into law which extended the moratorium against certain state and local taxation of Internet access, until November 1, 2014. Pursuant to this moratorium, most of our services are not subject to state and local taxation. We cannot predict whether this moratorium will be extended in the future or whether future legislation will alter the nature of the moratorium. If this moratorium is not extended in its current form, state and local governments could impose taxes on our services, and these taxes could decrease our ability to compete and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, laws relating to the liability of private network operators and information carried on or disseminated through their networks are unsettled, both in the United States and abroad. Network operators have been sued in the past based on the content of material disseminated through their networks. We may become subject to legal claims such as defamation, invasion of privacy, obscenity and copyright infringement in connection with content stored on or distributed through our network. Also, our reputation could suffer as a result of our perceived association with the type of content that some of our customers deliver. The adoption of any future laws or regulations might decrease the growth of the Internet, decrease demand for our services, impose taxes or other costly technical requirements, regulate the Internet similar to the regulation of traditional telecommunications services or otherwise increase the cost of doing business on the Internet in some other manner. Any of these actions could significantly harm our customers or us. Moreover, the nature of any new laws and regulations and the interpretation of applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing intellectual property ownership and infringement, copyright, trademark, trade secret, obscenity, libel, employment, personal privacy and other issues is uncertain and developing. We cannot predict the impact, if any, that future regulation or regulatory changes may have on our business. Risks Related to Our Capital Stock Our common stockholders may experience significant dilution, which could depress the market price of our common stock. Holders of our stock options may exercise their options to purchase our common stock, which would increase the number of outstanding shares of common stock in the future. As of December 31, 2008, options to purchase an aggregate of 2.8 million shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $11.91 were outstanding. Also, the vesting of 0.8 million outstanding restricted stock awards will increase the weighted average number of shares used for calculating diluted net income per share. We issued approximately 12.2 million shares of our common stock to VitalStream’s stockholders in connection with the acquisition in February 2007. We also assumed outstanding options for the purchase of shares of VitalStream common stock, converted into options to purchase approximately 1.5 million shares of our common stock. Furthermore, greater than expected capital requirements could require us to obtain additional financing through the issuance of securities, which could be in the form of common stock or preferred stock or other securities having greater rights than our common stock. The issuance of our common stock or other securities, whether upon the exercise of options, the future vesting and issuance of stock awards to our executives and employees or in financing transactions, could depress the market price of our common stock by increasing the number of shares of common stock or other securities outstanding on an absolute basis or as a result of the timing of additional shares of common stock becoming available on the market. Provisions of our charter documents, our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make an acquisition more difficult, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan in 2007 that renders the consummation of an acquisition without the approval of the board of directors more difficult. Our stock price may be volatile. The market for our equity securities has been extremely volatile. Our stock price could suffer in the future as a result of any failure to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors about our results of operations from quarter to quarter. The following factors could cause the price of our common stock in the public market to fluctuate significantly: ● actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly and annual results of operations; ● changes in market valuations of companies in the Internet connectivity and services industry; - 22 - - ● changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; ● fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; ● future issuances of common stock or other securities; ● the addition or departure of key personnel; and ● announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances. Changes in financial accounting standards may adversely affect our reported results of operations. A change in financial accounting standards or practices that cause a change in the methodology or procedures by which we track, calculate, record or report our results of operations or financial condition or both could cause fluctuations in and adversely affect our reported results of operations and cause our historical financial information to not be reliable as an indicator of future results. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 