ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Information: This report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements regarding the Company’s actual and expected financial performance and operations. These statements are based upon our current expectations and knowledge of factors impacting our business, including, without limitation, statements about our ability to 7 Table of Contents consummate contemplated sales transactions for our assets or investments which may enable debt reduction on anticipated terms, our customers and the markets in which we operate, advertising revenues, the effect of revenues on the fair value of our reporting units, our impairment analyses and our evaluation of the factors pertinent thereto, the economy, our pension plans, including our assumptions regarding return on pension plan assets and assumed discount rates, newsprint costs, our restructuring plans, including projected costs and savings, amortization expense, stock option expenses, prepayment of debt, capital expenditures, litigation, sufficiency of capital resources, possible acquisitions and investments, and our future financial performance. Such statements are subject to risks, trends and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are generally preceded by, followed by or are a part of sentences that include the words “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” or similar expressions. For all of those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that the following important factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this document, particularly in the section entitled “Risk Factors” and in the documents which we incorporate by reference, could affect the future results of McClatchy and could cause those future results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements: the duration and depth of the economic recession; McClatchy might not generate cash from operations, or otherwise, necessary to reduce debt or meet debt covenants as expected; McClatchy might not consummate contemplated transactions to enable debt reduction on anticipated terms or at all; McClatchy might not achieve its expense reduction targets or might do harm to its operations in attempting to achieve such targets; McClatchy’s operations have been, and will likely continue to be, adversely affected by competition, including competition from internet publishing and advertising platforms; increases in the cost of newsprint; bankruptcies or financial strain of its major advertising customers; litigation or any potential litigation; geo-political uncertainties including the risk of war; changes in printing and distribution costs from anticipated levels; changes in interest rates; changes in pension assets and liabilities; increased consolidation among major retailers in our markets or other events depressing the level of advertising; our inability to negotiate and obtain favorable terms under collective bargaining agreements with unions; competitive action by other companies; decreased circulation and diminished revenues from retail, classified and national advertising; and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The Company has significant competition in the market for news and advertising, which may reduce its advertising and circulation revenues in the future. The Company’s primary source of revenues is advertising, followed by circulation. In recent years, the advertising industry generally has experienced a secular shift toward internet advertising and away from other traditional media. In addition, the Company’s circulation has declined over the last two years, reflecting general trends in the newspaper industry including consumer migration toward the internet and other media for news and information. With the continued development of alternative forms of media technologies, the Company faces increasing competition from other online sources for both advertising and circulation revenues. This competition has intensified as a result of the continued developments of digital media technologies. Distribution of news, entertainment and other information over the internet, as well as through mobile phones and other devices, continues to increase in popularity. These technological developments are increasing the number of media choices available to advertisers and audiences. As media audiences fragment, the Company expects advertisers to allocate larger portions of their advertising budgets to digital media. This increased competition has had and is expected to continue to have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results, including negatively impacting revenues and operating income. Weak general economic and business conditions subject the Company to risks of declines in advertising revenues. The United States economy is undergoing an extended period of economic uncertainty, which has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, limited access to the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending, and lower consumer net worth. The resulting pressure on the labor and retail markets and the downturn in consumer 8 Table of Contents confidence have weakened the economic climate in all of the markets in which the Company does business and have had and are expected to continue to have an adverse effect on the Company’s advertising revenues. Classified advertising revenues have continued to decline since late 2006 and advertising results declined across the board in 2008 and 2009. To the extent these economic conditions continue or worsen, the Company’s business and advertising revenues will be adversely affected, which could negatively impact the Company’s operations and cash flows and the Company’s ability to meet the covenants in its senior secured credit agreement. In addition, seasonal variations in consumer spending cause our quarterly advertising revenues to fluctuate. Second and fourth quarter advertising revenues are typically higher than first and third quarter advertising revenues, reflecting the slower economic activity in the winter and summer and the stronger fourth quarter holiday season. If general economic conditions and other factors cause a decline in revenues, particularly during the second or fourth quarters, we may not be able to grow or maintain our revenues for the year which would have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results. If management is unable to execute cost-control measures successfully, total operating costs may be greater than expected, which may adversely affect the Company’s profitability. Given general economic and business conditions and the Company’s recent operating results, the Company has taken steps to lower operating costs by reducing workforce and implementing general cost-control measures. If the Company does not achieve its expected savings from these initiatives, or if operating costs increase as a result of these initiatives, total operating costs may be greater than anticipated. Although management believes that appropriate steps have been taken and are being taken to implement cost-control efforts, such efforts may affect the Company’s business and its ability to generate future revenue. Significant portions of the Company’s expenses are fixed costs that neither increase nor decrease proportionately with revenues. As a result, management is limited in its ability to reduce costs in the short term. If these cost-control efforts do not reduce costs sufficiently, income from continuing operations may continue to decline. The collectability of accounts receivable under current adverse economic conditions could deteriorate to a greater extent than provided for in the Company’s financial statements. Recessionary conditions in the U.S have increased the Company’s exposure to losses resulting from the potential bankruptcy of the Company’s advertising customers. The recession could also impair the ability of those with whom the Company does business to satisfy their obligations to the Company even if they do not file for bankruptcy. As a result, the Company’s results of operations may continue to be adversely affected. The Company’s accounts receivables are stated at net estimated realizable value and the Company’s allowance for doubtful accounts has been determined based on several factors, including the aging of accounts receivables and evaluation of significant individual credit risk accounts. If such collectability estimates prove inaccurate, adjustments to future operating results could occur. The economic downturn and the decline in the price of the Company’s publicly traded stock may result in goodwill and masthead impairment charges. The Company recorded masthead impairment charges of $59.6 million in 2008 and $3.0 billion of goodwill and masthead impairment charges in 2007 reflecting the economic downturn and the decline in the price of the Company’s publicly traded common stock. Should general economic, market or business conditions continue to decline, and continue to have a negative impact on the Company’s stock price, the Company may be required to record additional impairment charges. The Company has $1.9 billion in total consolidated debt, which subjects the Company to significant interest rate and credit risk. As of December 27, 2009, the Company had approximately $1.9 billion in total principal indebtedness outstanding. This level of debt increases the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry 9 Table of Contents conditions. Debt service costs are subject to interest rate changes as well as any changes in the Company’s leverage ratio (ratio of debt to operating cash flow as defined in the Company’s existing senior secured credit agreement with its banks). Higher leverage ratios could increase the level of debt service costs and also affect the Company’s future ability to refinance maturing debt, or the ultimate structure of such refinancing. In addition, the Company’s credit ratings could affect its ability to refinance its debt. On February 11, 2010, Standard & Poor’s upgraded its corporate credit rating on the Company to ‘B-’ from ‘CC’, with a stable rating outlook, and the ratings on the Company’s bonds and senior secured credit facility were upgraded from ‘C’ to ‘B-’ (including the Company’s 11.5% Senior Secured Notes due 2017). On February 11, 2010, Moody’s upgraded its corporate credit rating on the Company to ‘Caa1’ from ‘Caa2’, with a stable rating outlook, and the ratings on the Company’s unsecured bonds were upgraded from ‘Caa3’ to ‘Caa2’ and Moody’s issued a “B1” rating on the Company’s 11.5% Senior Secured Notes due 2017 and senior secured credit facility. Covenants in the indenture governing the Company’s 11.50% Senior Secured Notes due 2017 (the “2017 Notes”) and its senior secured credit facility will restrict the Company’s operations in many ways. The indenture governing the 2017 Notes and the senior secured credit facility contain various covenants that limit, subject to certain exceptions, our ability and/or our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur liens or additional debt or provide guarantees; • issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; • pay dividends or make distributions on capital stock or repurchase capital stock or repurchase outstanding notes or debentures prior to their stated maturity; • make loans, investments or acquisitions; • enter into agreements that restrict distributions from its subsidiaries; • create or permit restrictions on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or distributions or guarantee debt or create liens; • sell assets and capital stock of its subsidiaries; • enter into certain transactions with its affiliates; and dissolve, liquidate, consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all its assets to another person. The restrictions contained in the indenture for the 2017 Notes and the senior secured credit facility could adversely affect the Company’s ability to: • finance its operations; • make needed capital expenditures; • make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into alliances; • withstand a future downturn in its business or the economy in general; • engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in its interest; and • plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies. The Company’s ability to comply with covenants contained in the indenture for the 2017 Notes and the senior secured credit facility may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Even if the Company is able to comply with all of the applicable covenants, the restrictions on its ability to manage its business could adversely affect its business by, among other things, limiting its ability to take advantage of financings, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that the Company believes would be beneficial to it. 10 Table of Contents Potential disruptions in the credit markets could adversely affect the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements, and could adversely affect the Company’s access to capital or to obtain financing at reasonable rates and its ability to refinance existing debt at reasonable rates or at all. If internal funds are not available from the Company’s operations, the Company may be required to rely on the banking and credit markets to meet its financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as were experienced during 2008 and 2009, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to access additional funds in the capital markets or draw on its senior secured credit facility. Although the Company believes that its operating cash flow and current access to capital and credit markets, including the proceeds from its recent notes offering and funds from its senior secured credit facility, will give it the ability to meet its financial needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that continued or increased volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets will not impair the Company’s liquidity. If this should happen, any alternative credit arrangements may not be put in place without a potentially significant increase in the Company’s cost of borrowing. As of December 27, 2009, on an as adjusted basis after giving effect to the refinancing discussed in Item 7, the Company would have had approximately $2.0 billion in total principal indebtedness, $875 million of which would have consisted of the notes that were issued on February 4, 2010 and $262.0 million of which would have consisted of borrowings under its senior secured credit facility with the remainder in the form of unsecured publicly traded notes maturing in part in 2011, 2014, 2017, 2027 and 2029. While cash flow should permit the Company to lower the amount of this debt before it matures, a significant portion of this debt will probably need to be refinanced in the future. Access to the capital markets for longer-term financing is currently restricted due to the unprecedented and ongoing turmoil in the capital markets. The Company requires newsprint for operations and, therefore, its operating results may be adversely affected if the price of newsprint increases. Newsprint is the major component of the Company’s cost of raw materials. Newsprint accounted for 10.7% of McClatchy’s operating expenses for fiscal 2009. Accordingly, earnings are sensitive to changes in newsprint prices. The price of newsprint has historically been volatile and may increase as a result of various factors, including: • declining newsprint supply from mill closures; • reduction in newsprint suppliers because of consolidation in the newsprint industry; • paper mills reducing their newsprint supply because of switching their production to other paper grades; and • a decline in the financial situation of newsprint suppliers. The Company has not attempted to hedge fluctuations in the normal purchases of newsprint or enter into contracts with embedded derivatives for the purchase of newsprint. If the price of newsprint increases materially, operating results could be adversely affected. If newsprint suppliers experience labor unrest, transportation difficulties or other supply disruptions, the Company’s ability to produce and deliver newspapers could be impaired and/or the cost of the newsprint could increase, both of which would negatively affect its operating results. A portion of the Company’s employees are members of unions and if the Company experiences labor unrest, its ability to produce and deliver newspapers could be impaired. If McClatchy experiences labor unrest, its ability to produce and deliver newspapers could be impaired in some locations. The results of future labor negotiations could harm the Company’s operating results. The Company’s newspapers have not endured a labor strike for decades. However, management cannot ensure that a 11 Table of Contents strike will not occur at one or more of the Company’s newspapers in the future. As of December 27, 2009, approximately 5.9% of full-time and part-time employees were represented by unions. Most of the Company’s union-represented employees are currently working under labor agreements, which expire at various times through 2012. McClatchy faces collective bargaining upon the expirations of these labor agreements. Even if its newspapers do not suffer a labor strike, the Company’s operating results could be harmed if the results of labor negotiations restrict its ability to maximize the efficiency of its newspaper operations. Under the Pension Protection Act (PPA), the Company will be required to make greater cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plans in the next several years than previously required, placing greater liquidity needs upon its operations. The poor capital markets of 2008 that have affected all investments impacted the funds in the Company’s pension plans which had poor returns in 2008. However, strong returns in 2009 helped offset a portion of this impact, but, as a result of the plans’ lower assets, the projected benefit obligations of the Company’s qualified pension plans exceed plan assets by $500.0 million as of December 27, 2009. The excess of benefit obligations over pension assets is expected to give rise to an increase in required pension contributions over the next several years. The PPA funding rules are likely to require the net liability at the end of 2009 to be funded with tax deductible contributions between 2010 and 2015, with approximately $22.0 million coming due in 2010. Contributions in future years, while not yet known, are expected to be substantially higher than the 2010 amounts. While legislation has recently been enacted to give some relief in funding and there may be more related legislation, the contributions will place additional strain on the Company’s liquidity needs. The Company has invested in certain internet ventures, but such ventures may not be as successful as expected which could adversely affect the results of operations of the Company. The Company continues to evaluate its business and make strategic investments in digital ventures, either alone or with partners, to further its growth in its online businesses. There can be no assurances that these investments or partnerships will result in growth in advertising or will produce equity income or capital gains in future years. If the Company is not successful in growing its digital businesses, its business, financial condition and prospects will be adversely affected. The Company’s future growth depends to a significant degree upon the development of its digital businesses. The growth and success of its digital businesses over the long term depends on various factors, including, among other things the ability to: • continue to increase online audiences; • attract advertisers to its Web sites; • maintain or increase the advertising rates on its Web sites; • exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish its products and services from those of its competitors and developing new content, products and services; and • invest funds and resources in online opportunities. If the Company is not successful in growing its digital businesses, its business, financial condition and prospects will be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Circulation declines could adversely affect the Company’s circulation and advertising revenues. Advertising and circulation revenues are affected by circulation and readership levels of the Company’s newspapers. In recent years, newspapers have experienced difficulty maintaining or increasing print circulation levels because of a number of factors, including: • increased competition from other publications and other forms of media technologies available in various markets, including the internet and other new media formats that are often free for users; • continued fragmentation of media audiences; • a growing preference among some consumers to receive all or a portion of their news other than from a newspaper; • increases in subscription and newsstand rates; and • declining discretionary spending by consumers affected by negative economic conditions. These factors could also affect the Company’s newspapers’ ability to institute circulation price increases for print products. A prolonged reduction in circulation would have a material adverse effect on advertising revenues. To maintain the Company’s circulation base, it may be required to incur additional costs which it may not be able to recover through circulation and advertising revenues. Adverse results from litigation or governmental investigations can impact the Company’s business practices and operating results. From time to time, the Company and its subsidiaries are parties to litigation and regulatory, environmental and other proceedings with governmental authorities and administrative agencies. Adverse outcomes in lawsuits or investigations could result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition as well as our ability to conduct our businesses as they are presently being conducted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 