ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THAT COULD AFFECT OPERATING RESULTS Forward-Looking Information: This quarterly report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements regarding the Company’s actual and expected financial performance and operations. These statements are based upon our current expectations and knowledge of factors impacting our business, including, without limitation, statements about litigation, advertising revenues, return on pension plan assets and assumed salary increases, newsprint costs, amortization expense, stock option expenses, prepayment of debt, capital expenditures, sufficiency of capital resources and possible acquisitions. Such statements are subject to risks, trends and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are generally preceded by, followed by or are a part of sentences that include the words “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” or similar expressions. For all of those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that the following important factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this document and in the documents which we incorporate by reference, could affect the future results of McClatchy, and could cause those future results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements: general economic, market or business conditions, especially in any of the markets where we operate newspapers; impact of any litigation or any potential litigation; geo-political uncertainties including the risk of war; changes in newsprint prices and/or printing and distribution costs from anticipated levels; changes in interest rates; changes in pension assets and liabilities; increased competition from newspapers or other forms of media in our principal markets; increased consolidation among major retailers in our newspaper markets or other events depressing the level of advertising; changes in our ability to negotiate and obtain favorable terms under collective bargaining arrangements with our employees; competitive action by other companies; difficulties in servicing our debt obligations; other occurrences leading to decreased circulation and diminished revenues from both retail and classified advertising; and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Additional Information Regarding Certain Risks: Newsprint is the major component of our cost of raw materials. Newsprint accounted for 14.6% of McClatchy’s operating expenses for fiscal 2005. Accordingly, our earnings are sensitive to changes in newsprint prices. We have not attempted to hedge fluctuations in the normal purchases of newsprint or enter into contracts with embedded derivatives for the purchase of newsprint. If the price of newsprint increases materially, our operating results could be adversely affected. For a discussion of the impact of a change in newsprint prices on the Company’s earnings per share, please see the newsprint discussion above at “Recent Events and Trends.” If our newsprint suppliers experience labor unrest, transportation difficulties or other supply disruptions, our ability to produce and deliver newspapers could be impaired and/or the cost of the newsprint could increase, both of which would negatively affect our operating results. If McClatchy experiences labor unrest, our ability to produce and deliver newspapers could be impaired. The results of future labor negotiations could harm our operating results. Our newspapers have not endured a labor strike since 1980. However, we cannot ensure that a strike will not occur at one or more of our newspapers in the future. As of December 25, 2005, approximately a quarter of our full- and part-time employees were represented by unions including 59% at the Star Tribune and 23% at The Sacramento Bee, the Company’s two largest newspapers. Most of the Company’s union-represented employees are currently working under labor agreements, which expire at various times. McClatchy faces collective bargaining upon the expirations of these labor agreements. Even if our newspapers do not suffer a labor strike, the Company’s operating results could be harmed if the results of labor negotiations restrict our ability to maximize the efficiency of our newspaper operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 8 Table of Contents 