Item 1A. Risk Factors. As indicated in this Annual Report under the caption "Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," certain information contained in this Annual Report consists of forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report include the following: Worldwide adverse economic conditions negatively impact our business. Over the past two years, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have experienced extreme disruption, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. We have been impacted by these economic developments in that they continue to adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations, and have reduced orders for our products and services. These economic conditions will continue to negatively impact us to the extent our customers defer purchasing decisions, thereby lengthening our sales cycles. In addition, our customers' may have constrained budgets affecting their ability to purchase our products at the same level. Our customers' ability to pay for our products and services may also be impaired, which may lead to an increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. Should these economic conditions result in us not meeting our revenue objectives, our operating results, financial condition and stock price could be adversely affected. Competition could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues or profitability. The enterprise-class information storage, server and networking market is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. As technologies change rapidly, we expect that competition will increase in the 12 future. Current economic conditions also place pressure on our competitors to lower their prices and seek opportunities of size and scale different than in the past. We compete with independent storage, server and networking system suppliers in the mid to large enterprise market and numerous value-added resellers, distributors and consultants. We also compete in the storage, server and networking systems market with computer platform suppliers. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, purchasing and other resources than we do. As a result, they may respond more quickly to changes in economic conditions and customer requirements and to new or emerging technologies, devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products and deliver competitive products at lower end-user prices. Our suppliers are often our competitors. We are not the exclusive reseller of any data storage, server or networking product we offer. Instead, our suppliers market their products through other independent data storage, server and networking solution providers, original equipment manufacturers, and through their own internal sales forces. We believe direct competition from our suppliers is likely to increase if, as expected, the server, storage and networking industries continues to consolidate and also converge with providers of server and networking technologies. This consolidation would likely result in fewer suppliers with greater resources to devote to internal sales and marketing efforts. In addition, our suppliers have established and will probably continue to establish cooperative relationships with other suppliers and other data storage, server and networking solution providers. These cooperative relationships are often intended to enable our suppliers to offer comprehensive storage, server and networking solutions, which compete with those we offer. If our relationships with our suppliers become adversarial, or terminated due to an acquisition of a supplier, it will be more difficult for us to stay ahead of industry developments and provide our customers with the type of service they expect from us. Furthermore, this could have a material negative impact on our revenues and profitability. In addition, most of our customers already employ in-house technical staffs. To the extent a customer's in-house technical staff develops sophisticated server, storage and networking systems expertise, the customer may be less likely to seek our services. Further, we compete with storage service providers who manage, store and backup their customers' data at off-site, networked data storage locations. Our acquisition strategy poses substantial risks. As part of our growth strategy, we recently made two acquisitions and plan to continue to pursue acquisitions in the future. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or, if suitable candidates are identified, we may not be able to complete the business combination on commercially acceptable terms. We may need to raise additional equity to consummate future acquisitions, which may not be feasible, could be on terms we do not consider favorable, would cause dilution to existing investors and could adversely affect our stock price. The process of exploring and pursuing acquisition opportunities requires significant management and financial resources, which diverts attention from our core operations. Even if we are able to consummate an acquisition that we believe will be successful, the transaction may present many risks. These risks include, among others: failing to achieve anticipated synergies and revenue increases; difficulty incorporating and integrating the acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines; coordinating, establishing or expanding sales, distribution and marketing functions, as necessary; disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of management's attention to transition or integration issues; unanticipated and unknown liabilities; the loss of key employees, customers, partners and channel partners of our company or of the acquired company; and difficulties implementing and maintaining sufficient controls, policies and procedures over the systems, products and processes of the acquired company. If we do not achieve the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by our management and financial or industry 13 analysts or if others do not perceive the same benefits of the acquisition as we do, there could be a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. Our revenue recognition policies unpredictably defer reporting of our revenues. We sell complex enterprise-class data storage, server and networking solutions, which include installation and configuration services. We do not recognize revenues from our sale of hardware and software products to our customers until we complete our required installation or configuration of these products. Installation and configuration of these solutions requires significant coordination with our customers and vendors. In the current economic environment, we have observed an increasing number of large customers delaying the completion of internal projects that are prerequisites to our installation services. Therefore, even if we have shipped all products to our customers, we may be unable to control the timing of product installation and configuration. These delays can prevent us from recognizing revenue on products we ship and may adversely affect our quarterly reported revenues. As a result, our stock price may decline. Effective January 1, 2011, we adopted a new revenue recognition policy due to a change in generally accepted accounting principles, our revenue recognition policy will require us to recognize product revenues upon shipment versus upon installation under our old revenue recognition method. We cannot predict what impact this may have on our quarterly reported revenues going forward. As a result, our stock price may decline. Our key vendors could change or discontinue their incentive programs, which could adversely affect our business. Several of our key vendors have offered incentive programs to us over the past several years based on our achievement of particular sales levels of their products and early pay discounts. In addition, they have offered margin enhancement programs which provide enhanced discounts for particular products or new customer orders. These programs contributed to our profitability in 2010, 2009 and 2008. We cannot assure that these programs will continue or that the sales quotas for our participation will not increase, adversely affecting our ability to take advantage of the incentives. If for any reason, we cannot obtain the same benefits from incentive programs as in the past, it may significantly impact our profitability in the future. We derive a significant percentage of our revenues from a small number of customers. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, we had no customers that accounted for at least 10% of our revenues. However, our top five customers collectively accounted for 12%, 17%, and 15% of our 2010, 2009 and 2008 revenues, respectively. Because we intend to continue to seek out large projects, we expect that a significant percentage of our revenues will continue to come from a small number of customers, although the composition of our key customers is likely to change from year to year. Current economic conditions likely will continue to adversely affect the number of and size of large projects available for us. If we fail to obtain a growing number of large projects each year, our revenues and profitability will likely be adversely affected. In addition, our reliance on large projects makes it more likely that our revenues and profits will fluctuate unpredictably from quarter to quarter and year to year. Unpredictable revenue and profit fluctuations may make our stock price more volatile and lead to a decline in our stock price. Our business depends on our ability to hire and retain technical personnel and highly qualified sales people. Our future operating results depend upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified engineers and sales people with enterprise-class data storage, server and networking solutions 14 experience. If we fail to recruit and retain additional engineering and sales personnel, or if losses require us in the future to terminate employment of some of these personnel, we will experience greater difficulty realizing our business strategy, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and stock price. We generally do not have employment agreements with our key employees. Our future operating results depend in significant part upon the continued contributions of our executive officers, managers, sales people, engineers and other technical personnel, many of whom have substantial experience in our industry and would be difficult to replace. Except as to our President and Chief Executive Officer, Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President of Field Operations, we do not have employment agreements with our employees. Accordingly, our employees may voluntarily leave us at any time and work for our competitors. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to retain our current employees and hire new employees. Any failure to retain our key employees will make it much more difficult for us to maintain our operations and attain our growth objectives and could therefore be expected to adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and stock price. Our long sales cycle may cause fluctuating operating results, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our sales cycle is typically long and unpredictable, making it difficult to plan our business. Current economic conditions increased this uncertainty. Our long sales cycle requires us to invest resources in potential projects that may not occur. In addition, our long and unpredictable sales cycle may cause us to experience significant fluctuations in our future annual and quarterly operating results. It can also result in delayed revenues, difficulty in matching revenues with expenses and increased expenditures. Our business, operating results or financial condition and stock price may suffer as a result of any of these factors. If the storage, server and networking solutions industries fails to develop compelling new technologies, our business may suffer. Rapid and complex technological change, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards increase demand for our services. Because of this, our future success depends in part on the storage, server and networking solutions industry's ability to continue to develop leading-edge storage and related server and networking technology solutions. Our customers utilize our services in part because they know that newer technologies offer them significant benefits over the older technologies they are using. If the data storage industry ceases to develop compelling new storage, server and networking solutions, or if a single data storage, server and networking standard becomes widely accepted and implemented, it will be more difficult to sell new data storage, server and networking systems to our customers. The continued tightened budgets among established data storage, server and networking technology manufacturers and the difficulty of raising new capital for innovative, start-up companies, under current economic conditions may also stifle development of new data storage, server and networking technologies. Control by our existing stockholders could discourage the potential acquisition of our business. Currently, our executive officers and directors beneficially own approximately 22.2% of our outstanding common stock. Acting together, these insiders may be able to elect our entire Board of Directors and control the outcome of all other matters requiring stockholder approval. This voting concentration may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our management or control or otherwise discourage potential acquirers from attempting to gain control of us. If potential 15 acquirers are deterred, you may lose an opportunity to profit from a possible acquisition premium in our stock price. Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock fluctuates significantly, and, especially in light of current stock market and worldwide economic conditions, may continue to be volatile. We cannot assure you that our stock price will increase, or even that it will not decline significantly from the price you pay. Our stock price may be adversely affected by many factors, including: •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, including those resulting from changes in accounting rules; •general market conditions, including the effects of current economic conditions; •announcements of technical innovations; •new products or services offered by us, our suppliers or our competitors; •changes in estimates by securities analysts of our future financial performance; •our compliance with SEC and Nasdaq rules and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; •the timing of stock sales under 10b5-1 plans or otherwise; and •war and terrorism threats. Our governing documents and Minnesota law may discourage the potential acquisitions of our business. Our Board of Directors may issue additional shares of capital stock and establish their rights, preferences and classes, in some cases without stockholder approval. In addition, we are subject to anti-takeover provisions of Minnesota law. These provisions may deter or discourage takeover attempts and other changes in control of us not approved by our Board of Directors. If potential acquirers are deterred, you may lose an opportunity to profit from a possible acquisition premium in our stock price. Future finite lived intangibles and goodwill impairment may unpredictably affect our financial results. We perform impairment analyses of our finite lived intangibles when a triggering event occurs and goodwill at least annually or when we believe there may be impairment. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that goodwill and/or the finite lived intangibles associated with our acquired businesses are impaired. With the overall decline in the stock market, over the past several years, future potential decline in our stock price and the continued impact of the global economic downturn, it may become more likely that we would need to write down the carrying value of our assets and incur a current period charge to our earnings. Any resulting impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The sublessee for our corporate headquarters may be unable to make their lease payments or default on their lease agreement. In December 2004, we agreed to sublease approximately 52,000 of the 106,000 square feet we then occupied as our corporate headquarters in Chanhassen, Minnesota. The initial sublease term is co-terminal with our lease and is 85 months starting in April 2005 and ending in April 2012. The sublessee pays us rent ranging from approximately $55,000 per month at the beginning of the term to approximately $60,000 per month by the end of the term. If the sublessee was unable to make their lease payments to us or defaulted on the lease agreement, our operating results or financial condition 16 and stock price may suffer as a result. The annual payments we expect to receive for our Chanhassen sublease is $950,000 for 2010 and 2011, respectively, and $317,000 for 2012. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 