ITEM 1A. Risk Factors As described in "Part I. Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," this report contains forward-looking statements regarding us, our business and our industry. The risk factors described below, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. We depend on strong demand for natural gas and a prolonged, substantial reduction in this demand would adversely affect the demand for our services and products. Gas contract compression operations are significantly dependent upon the demand for natural gas. Demand may be affected by, among other factors, natural gas prices, weather, demand for energy and availability of alternative energy sources. Any prolonged, substantial reduction in the demand for natural gas would, in all likelihood, depress the level of production, exploration and development activity and result in a decline in the demand for our contract compression services and products. Similarly, a decrease in capital spending by our customers could result in reduced demand for our fabrication and aftermarket services businesses. Our international operations subject us to risks that are difficult to predict. For the nine months ended December 31, 2005, we derived approximately 30% of our revenues from international operations. We intend to continue to expand our business in Latin America, Asia Pacific and, ultimately, other international markets. This may make it more difficult for us to manage our business. Reasons for this include, but are not limited to, the following: •political and economic instability in foreign markets; •foreign governments' restrictive trade policies; •inconsistent product regulation or sudden policy changes by foreign agencies or governments; •the burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws; •the imposition of duties, taxes or government royalties; •foreign exchange rate risks; •difficulty in collecting international accounts receivable; 14 •potentially longer payment cycles; •increased costs in maintaining international manufacturing and marketing efforts; •the introduction of non-tariff barriers and higher duty rates; •difficulties in enforcement of contractual obligations; •restrictions on repatriation of earnings or expropriation of property; and •the geographic, time zone, language and cultural differences between personnel in different areas of the world. Any of these factors may cause us to experience economic loss or negatively impact our earnings or net assets. We face significant competition that may cause us to lose market share and harm our financial performance. The contract compression, fabrication, and aftermarket services businesses are highly competitive and there are low barriers to entry for individual projects. In addition, some of our competitors are large national and multinational companies that provide contract compression and fabrication services to third parties, some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. If our competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive products and services, we may not be able to compete effectively. We are dependent on particular suppliers and are vulnerable to product shortages and price increases. As a consequence of having a highly standardized contract compression fleet, some of the components used in our products are obtained from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on these suppliers involves several risks, including price increases, inferior component quality and a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components in a timely manner. The partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have a negative impact on our results of operations and could damage our customer relationships. Further, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these components could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities. Natural gas service operations are subject to inherent risks such as equipment defects, malfunction and failures, and natural disasters that can result in uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids, fires and explosions. These risks could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, death, property damage, pollution and other environmental damages. Although we have obtained insurance against many of these risks, our insurance may be inadequate to cover our liabilities. Further, insurance covering the risks we face or in the amounts we desire may not be available in the future or, if available, the premiums may not be commercially justifiable. If we were to incur substantial liability and such damages were not covered by insurance or were in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. A substantial portion of our cash flow must be used to service our debt obligations, and we are vulnerable to interest rate increases. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $922.9 million in outstanding debt obligations consisting primarily of $471.8 million outstanding under our seven-year term loan, $171.1 million outstanding under our 71/4% senior notes, $200.0 million outstanding under our asset-backed securitization facility (the "ABS facility") and $80.0 million outstanding under our revolving credit 15 facility. These debt amounts exclude approximately $26.0 million of standby letters of credit issued on our behalf, as of December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $371.8 million of our outstanding debt bore interest at floating rates. Changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, thereby increasing our interest expense and reducing our funds available to make payments of interest and principal on the notes and for capital investment, operations or other purposes. Our credit facilities impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to successfully operate our business. Our credit facilities include certain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: •borrow money; •create liens, other than liens securing our senior secured credit facility, the ABS facility or in connection with permitted acquisitions; •make investments, other than in any subsidiary or in connection with permitted acquisitions; •declare dividends or make certain distributions; •sell or dispose of property; and •merge into or consolidate with any third party or sell or transfer all or substantially all of our property. As of December 31, 2005, we were also required by our credit facilities to maintain various financial ratios, including a collateral coverage ratio (market value of compression collateral to amount of indebtedness outstanding under our senior secured credit facility) of greater than or equal to 1.15 to 1, a total leverage ratio (total debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense) of less than or equal to 5 to 1, and an interest coverage ratio (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense to interest expense) of greater than or equal to 2.5 to 1. As of February 27, 2006, we were in compliance with all of these financial covenants. These covenants may restrict our ability to expand or to pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these and other provisions of the credit facilities may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in business conditions or results of operations, adverse regulatory developments or other events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our debt, which could cause those obligations to become due and payable. If any of our indebtedness were to be accelerated, we may not be able to repay or refinance it. Our new enterprise resource planning ("ERP") system implementation may encounter problems that would negatively impact our business. We contracted with a third party vendor to assist us with the design and implementation of a new ERP system, which will support substantially all of our operating and financial functions, including our business segment operations, fleet management, billing, estimating, customer management, vendor management, accounting and financial reporting systems. We plan to complete the implementation of this new ERP system in 2007. A significant implementation problem, if encountered, could negatively impact our business by disrupting our operations. Although we currently have no reason to believe that any such significant implementation problems will occur, there are inherent limitations in our ability to predict and plan for these risks and estimate the magnitude of their impact. Consequently, it is possible that the occurrence of a significant implementation problem could be material. 16 We are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations in the foreign markets in which we operate. A decrease in the value of any of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could reduce our profits from foreign operations and the value of our foreign net assets. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. The majority of the Company's foreign operations have designated the local currency as their functional currency and, as such, gains and losses resulting from financial statement translation of foreign operations are included as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders' equity. Gains and losses from balances that are receivable or payable in currency other than functional currency are included in the consolidated statements of operations. As a result, the U.S. dollar value of our foreign operations has varied, and will continue to vary, with exchange rate fluctuations. In this respect, historically we have been primarily exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Brazilian real, Mexican peso, Australian dollar and Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar. A fluctuation in the value of any of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could reduce our profits from foreign operations and the value of the net assets of our foreign operations when reported in U.S. dollars in our financial statements. This could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations as reported in U.S. dollars. In addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which the earnings are generated may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. For purposes of accounting, the assets and liabilities of our foreign operations, where the local currency is the functional currency, are translated using period-end exchange rates, and the revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are translated using average exchange rates during each period. Although we attempt to match costs and revenues in local currencies, we anticipate that there may be instances in which costs and revenues will not be matched with respect to currency denomination. As a result, to the extent we continue our expansion on a global basis, we expect that increasing portions of our revenues, costs, assets and liabilities will be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency valuations. We may experience economic loss and a negative impact on earnings or net assets solely as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Further, the markets in which we operate could restrict the removal or conversion of the local or foreign currency, resulting in our inability to hedge against these risks. Our ability to manage our business effectively will be weakened if we lose key personnel or are unable to hire, train and retain a qualified labor force. We depend on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and senior management. The departure of any of our key personnel could have a significant negative effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and on our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. We do not maintain key man life insurance coverage with respect to our executive officers or key management personnel. We are not aware of the upcoming retirement of any of our executive officers or senior management personnel. Additionally, we believe our ability to hire, train and retain qualified personnel will continue to be more challenging and important as we continue to grow and if energy industry market conditions continue to be positive. When general industry conditions are good, the supply of experienced operational, fabrication and field personnel, in particular, decreases as other energy, oil field services and manufacturing companies' needs for the same personnel increases. Our ability to continue our growth and perhaps even to continue our current level of service to our current customers will be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully hire, train and retain these important personnel. 17 We are subject to substantial environmental regulation, and changes in these regulations could increase our costs or liabilities. We are subject to stringent and complex foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulatory standards, including laws and regulations regarding the discharge of materials into the environment, emission controls and other environmental protection and occupational health and safety concerns. Environmental laws and regulations may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for environmental contamination, rendering us liable for remediation costs, natural resource damages and other damages as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior owners or operators or other third parties. In addition, where contamination may be present, it is not uncommon for neighboring land owners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury, property damage and recovery of response costs. Remediation costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations, and costs associated with new information, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, failure to comply with these environmental laws and regulations may result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties. We routinely deal with natural gas, oil and other petroleum products. As a result of our fabrication and aftermarket services operations, we generate, manage and dispose of or recycle hazardous wastes and substances such as solvents, thinner, waste paint, waste oil, washdown wastes and sandblast material. Although it is our policy to use generally accepted operating and disposal practices in accordance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances or wastes may have been disposed or released on, under or from properties owned, leased or operated by us or on or under other locations where such substances or wastes have been taken for disposal. These properties may be subject to investigatory, remediation and monitoring requirements under foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Nevertheless, the modification or interpretation of existing environmental laws or regulations, the more vigorous enforcement of existing environmental laws or regulations, or the adoption of new environmental laws or regulations may also negatively impact oil and natural gas exploration and production companies, which in turn could have a negative impact on us and other similarly situated service companies. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would result in the purchase of your shares at a premium to the market price or would otherwise be beneficial to you. There are provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would result in the purchase of your shares at a premium to the market price or would otherwise be beneficial to you. For example, our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation, such as a staggered board of directors and limitations on the removal of directors, no stockholder action by written consent, and on stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. Delaware corporation law may also discourage takeover attempts that have not been approved by our board of directors. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 