ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Company The retirement industry is highly competitive. Competition for residents, employees and facilities is very keen in the retirement industry. Although the Company's Pacific Pointe property in Oregon is not subject to federal regulation, it must comply with State of Oregon Senior Housing Regulations which are subject to change from time to time. The shopping mall business is dependent on leasing space to successful tenants. The Company's shopping mall in Gainesville, Texas is unique in its market but must maintain good relationships with its current and future tenants as well as generate adequate traffic for those tenants to be successful. The price of crude oil is volatile. Although the Company has benefited from extremely high crude oil prices in the last three years there is no guarantee that crude oil prices will remain at record levels. The type of oil production the Company is involved in is expensive and will not be profitable if the market for crude oil is less than $24 per barrel. Our governing documents contain anti-takeover provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. Our Articles of Incorporation contain provisions designed to discourage attempts to acquire control of the Company by a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or removal of incumbent management without the approval of our Board of Directors. As a result, a transaction which otherwise might appear to be in your best interests as a stockholder could be delayed, deferred or prevented altogether, and you may be deprived of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares over prevailing market rates. The provisions contained in our Articles of Incorporation include: o the requirement of an 80% vote to make, adopt, alter, amend, change or repeal our Bylaws or certain key provisions of the Articles of Incorporation that embody, among other things, the anti-takeover provisions, o the so-called business combination "control act" requirements involving the Company and a person that beneficially owns 10% or more of the outstanding common stock except under certain circumstances, and o the requirement of holders of at least 80% of the outstanding Common Stock to join together to request a special meeting of stockholders. As of December 31, 2005, officers, directors and affiliated entities owning more than 5% of the Company's outstanding common stock owned approximately 59% of the outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, a small group of individuals and entities own all of the outstanding Series J 2% Preferred Stock, which holds -11- the right to five votes per share of Series J 2% Preferred Stock voting with the common stock. Under these circumstances, if the holders of Series J 2% Preferred Stock and directors and affiliated entities owning more than 5% of our outstanding common stock voted together, the group would control 64% of the votes in any stockholder action. In light of this, these anti-takeover provisions could help entrench the existing Board of Directors and may effectively give our management the power to block any attempted change in control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 