ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS IDACORP and Idaho Power operate in a business environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond the companies' control. The circumstances and factors set forth below may have a material impact on the business, financial condition, or results of operations of IDACORP and Idaho Power and could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in any forward-looking statements. These risk factors, as well as other information in this report and in other reports the companies file with the SEC, should be considered carefully when evaluating IDACORP and Idaho Power. If the Idaho Public Utilities Commission, the Public Utility Commission of Oregon, or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission grant less rate recovery in regulatory proceedings than Idaho Power needs to cover existing and future costs and earn an acceptable rate of return, IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The prices that the Idaho Public Utilities Commission and Public Utility Commission of Oregon authorize Idaho Power to charge for its retail services, and the tariff rate that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission permits Idaho Power to charge for its transmission services, are generally the most significant factors influencing IDACORP’s and Idaho Power’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. The Idaho Public Utilities Commission and the Public Utility Commission of Oregon have the authority to disallow recovery of any costs that they consider unreasonable or imprudently incurred. Rates are generally established based on a test year, and the rates ultimately approved by regulators may not match expenses at any given time and recovery of expenses may lag behind the occurrence of those expenses. The ratemaking process typically involves multiple intervening parties, including governmental bodies, consumer advocacy groups, and customers, generally with the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. Further, while rate regulation is premised on the assumption that rates will be established that are fair, just, and reasonable, regulators have considerable discretion in applying this standard. Thus, the regulatory process does not assure that Idaho Power will be able to fully recover its costs or achieve the rate of return allowed by the Idaho and Oregon public utility commissions and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. In a number of proceedings in recent years, Idaho Power has been denied recovery, or deferred recovery pending the next general rate case, including denials or deferrals related to compensation expenses and construction expenditures. In some instances, denial of recovery may cause IDACORP and Idaho Power to record an impairment of assets. If Idaho Power's costs are not fully and timely recovered through the rates ultimately approved 19Table of Contents by regulators, IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations, and its ability to earn a return on investment and meet financial obligations, could be adversely affected. For additional information relating to Idaho Power's regulatory framework and recent regulatory matters, see Part I - Item 1 - "Business - Utility Operations," Note 3 - "Regulatory Matters" to the consolidated financial statements included in this report, and Part II - Item 7 - "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Regulatory Matters" in this report. Idaho Power's cost recovery deferral mechanisms and methods may not function as intended, which may adversely affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations. Idaho Power has power cost adjustment mechanisms in its Idaho and Oregon jurisdictions and a fixed cost adjustment in Idaho that provide for periodic adjustments to the rates charged to its retail customers. The power cost adjustment mechanisms track Idaho Power’s actual net power supply costs (primarily fuel and purchased power less off-system sales) and compares these amounts to net power supply costs being recovered in retail rates. A majority, but not all, of the variance between these two amounts is deferred for future recovery from, or refund to, customers through rates. Consequently, the power cost adjustment mechanisms only partially offset the potentially adverse financial impacts of forced generating plant outages, severe weather, reduced hydroelectric generation, and volatile wholesale energy prices. When costs rise above the level recovered in current retail rates it adversely affects Idaho Power’s operating cash flow and liquidity until those costs are recovered from customers. Unanticipated changes in loads in Idaho Power’s service territory expose Idaho Power to market and operational risk and could increase costs and adversely affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's results of operations and financial condition. To plan for future resource needs, Idaho Power prepares and periodically updates a load forecast as part of its integrated resource planning process. In doing so, Idaho Power makes load estimates that are based on a number of factors that are uncertain and difficult to estimate, and any unanticipated increase in the demand for energy could result in increased reliance on higher-cost purchased power to meet peak system demand, the need to initiate new demand response and energy efficiency programs, or the need for investment in additional generation resources. If the incremental costs associated with the unanticipated changes in loads exceed the incremental revenue received from those sales, and Idaho Power is unable to secure timely and full rate relief to recover those costs, the resulting imbalance could have an adverse effect on IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations. National and regional economic conditions may reduce customer growth rates, reduce energy consumption, or cause increased late payments and uncollectible customer accounts, which would adversely affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations. As noted above, unanticipated increases in loads can cause operational and resource issues. Similarly, decreases in loads have the potential to adversely affect IDACORP and Idaho Power. The regional economy in which Idaho Power operates is influenced by conditions in the agriculture, recreation, technology, medical, and other industries, and as these conditions change, IDACORP's and Idaho Power's revenues will be impacted. The direction and relative strength of the economy has been uncertain in recent years, as evidenced by, for instance, weak real estate markets, difficulties in the financial services sector and credit markets, and high unemployment. Weak economic conditions may reduce the amount of energy Idaho Power’s customers consume, result in a loss of customers (including large-load industrial and commercial customers) or further decrease the customer growth rate, and increase the likelihood and prevalence of late payments and uncollectible accounts. A resulting decrease in overall customer usage or collections and load growth may alter capital spending plans and rate base growth and may reduce revenues, earnings, and cash flows, which could adversely affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations. Extreme weather events and their associated impacts, such as high winds and fires, can adversely affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's results of operations and financial condition. Extreme weather events and their associated impacts can damage generation facilities and disrupt transmission and distribution systems, causing service interruptions and extended outages, increasing supply chain costs, and limiting Idaho Power's ability to meet customer energy demand. The effect of the failure of Idaho Power's facilities to operate as planned under extreme weather conditions would be particularly burdensome during peak demand periods. Disruption in generation, transmission, and distribution systems due to weather-related factors also increases operations and maintenance expenses and could negatively affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's results of operations and financial condition. New advances in power generation, energy efficiency, or other technologies that impact the power utility industry could cause an erosion in revenues. Idaho Power primarily generates power at large central facilities, which results in economies of scale and lower costs than many newer generation technologies. However, with the increasing costs of energy has come the incentive for the development of new technologies for power generation and energy efficiency, and an investment in research and development to make those technologies more efficient and cost-effective. For instance, while solar technology remains a 20Table of Contents relatively high-cost means of power generation, there have been numerous recent advancements in the design of solar generation facilities and the materials used in panels that may further increase the efficiency and power output of solar generation sources. There is potential that power generation systems provided by third parties, whether solar generation or otherwise, could become sufficiently cost-effective and efficient that an increasing number of customers choose to install such systems on their homes or businesses. Additionally, considerable emphasis has been placed on energy efficiency, such as LED lighting. Energy efficiency programs, including programs sponsored by Idaho Power, are designed to reduce energy demand. If Idaho Power is unable to maintain regulatory solutions allowing for recovery, declining usage would result in under-recovery of fixed costs. Widespread adoption of distributed generation and declining usage may decrease the need for energy supplied by Idaho Power, which would reduce Idaho Power's revenue, potentially result in the impairment of assets that produce and deliver energy, and have a negative impact on IDACORP's and Idaho Power's results of operations and financial condition. Capital expenditures for power generation, transmission, and delivery infrastructure and replacement of that infrastructure, risks associated with construction of that infrastructure, and the timing and availability of cost recovery for the expenditures, can significantly affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations. Idaho Power’s business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation, transmission, and distribution infrastructure. A significant portion of Idaho Power’s facilities were constructed many years ago, and thus require periodic upgrades and frequent maintenance. Also, long-term anticipated increases in both the number of customers and the demand for energy require expansion and reinforcement of that infrastructure. For instance, Idaho Power is in the permitting process for two 500-kV transmission line projects. Construction projects are subject to usual permitting and construction risks that can adversely affect project costs and the completion time. These risks include, as examples:•the ability to timely obtain labor or materials at reasonable costs, and defaults by contractors; •equipment, engineering, and design failures; •adverse weather conditions; •availability of financing; •the ability to obtain and comply with permits and land use rights, and environmental constraints; •disputes and litigation with third parties; and •changes in applicable laws or regulations. If Idaho Power is unable to complete the construction of a project, or incurs costs that regulators do not deem prudent, it may be unable to recover its costs in full through rates or on a timely basis. In many instances, review by regulators of the prudence of investments will not occur until expenditures have been made. Even if Idaho Power completes a construction project, the total costs may be higher than estimated and/or higher than amounts approved for recovery by regulators. If Idaho Power does not receive timely recovery through rates of costs associated with those expansion and reinforcement activities, Idaho Power will have to rely more heavily on external debt or equity financing for its capital expenditures. These large capital expenditures may weaken the financial profile of IDACORP and Idaho Power. Further, if Idaho Power were unable to secure permits or joint funding commitments to develop transmission infrastructure necessary to serve loads, such as the Boardman-to-Hemingway transmission line, it may terminate those projects and, as an alternative, seek to develop additional generation facilities within areas where Idaho Power has available transmission capacity or pursue other more costly options to serve loads. Termination of a project carries with it the potential for a write-off of all or a significant portion of the costs associated with the project if regulators deny recovery of costs they deem imprudently incurred, which could negatively affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations.Idaho Power’s business is subject to an extensive set of environmental laws, rules, and regulations, which could impact Idaho Power's operations and increase costs of operations, potentially rendering some generating units uneconomical to maintain or operate, and could increase the costs and alter the timing of major projects. A number of federal, state, and local environmental statutes, rules, and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, natural resources, and health and safety are applicable to Idaho Power's operations. Many of these laws and their associated impacts are described in Part II - Item 7 - "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Environmental Matters" in this report. These laws and regulations generally require Idaho Power to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections, and other approvals, and may be enforced by both public officials and private individuals. Some of these regulations are changing or subject to interpretation, and failure to comply may result in penalties or other adverse consequences, including costs associated with defending against claims by governmental authorities or private parties. Environmental regulations have created the need for Idaho Power to install new pollution control equipment at, and may cause Idaho Power to perform environmental remediation on, its owned or co-owned facilities, often at a substantial cost. For instance, Idaho Power plans to install environmental control apparatus at its co-owned Jim Bridger power plant in 2015 and 21Table of Contents 2016 at a cost of approximately $130 million, and a second set of control apparatus in 2021 and 2022. Idaho Power expects that there will be other costs relating to environmental regulations, and those costs are likely to be substantial. Idaho Power is not guaranteed recovery of those costs, and regulators may not grant prior approval of cost recovery. For example, in 2013 Idaho Power filed an application with the Idaho Public Utilities Commission requesting a binding commitment to provide rate base treatment for Idaho Power's $130 million share of the capital investment in environmental control upgrades at a co-owned coal-fired generating plant. In December 2013, the commission declined to grant binding rate recovery through rates, reserving the prudence determination for subsequent proceedings. Furthermore, Idaho Power may not be able to obtain or maintain all environmental regulatory approvals necessary for operation of its existing infrastructure or construction of new infrastructure. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approval or if Idaho Power fails to obtain, maintain, or comply with any such approval, construction and/or operation of Idaho Power's generation or transmission facilities could be delayed, halted, or subjected to additional costs. At the same time, consumer preference for renewable or low greenhouse gas-emitting sources of energy could impact the desirability of generation from existing sources and require significant investment in new generation and transmission resources. If Idaho Power is unable to recover in full these increased costs through the ratemaking process, such non-recovery would negatively impact IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, there are legislative and rulemaking initiatives pending at the federal level and the state level that are aimed at the reduction of fossil fuel plant emissions. Future changes in environmental laws or regulations governing emissions reduction may result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, require Idaho Power to purchase emission rights and pay new taxes, impair the value of Idaho Power's generating plants, or make some of those plants uneconomical to maintain or operate.Relicensing of the Hells Canyon hydroelectric project and construction of the proposed Gateway West and Boardman-to-Hemingway 500-kV transmission lines requires consultation under the Endangered Species Act to determine the effects of these projects on any listed species within the project areas. The presence of sage grouse in the vicinity of the Gateway West and Boardman-to-Hemingway transmission projects has required more extensive, costly, and time consuming evaluation and engineering. These and other requirements of the Endangered Species Act, Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, and similar environmental laws may increase costs, adversely affect the timing or ability to complete major projects, and may have an adverse effect on IDACORP's and Idaho Power's results of operations and financial condition.Factors contributing to lower hydroelectric generation can increase costs and negatively impact IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations. Idaho Power derives a significant portion of its power supply from its hydroelectric facilities. Because of Idaho Power’s heavy reliance on hydroelectric generation, snowpack, the timing of run-off, drought conditions, and the availability of water in the Snake River basin can significantly affect its operations. The combination of declining Snake River base flows, over-appropriation of water, and periods of drought have led to water rights disputes and proceedings among surface water and ground water irrigators and the State of Idaho. Recharging the Eastern Snake Plain aquifer by diverting surface water to porous locations and permitting it to sink into the aquifer is one proposed solution to the over-appropriation dispute. Diversions from the Snake River for aquifer recharge or the loss of water rights may further reduce Snake River flows available for hydroelectric generation. When hydroelectric generation is reduced, Idaho Power must increase its use of more expensive thermal generating resources and purchased power; therefore, costs increase and opportunities for off-system sales are reduced, reducing earnings. Through its power cost adjustment mechanisms, Idaho Power expects to recover most of the increase in net power supply costs caused by lower hydroelectric generation. Recovery of the increased costs, however, may not occur until the subsequent power cost adjustment year, negatively affecting cash flows and liquidity.Conditions imposed in connection with hydroelectric license renewals may require large capital expenditures, increase operating costs, reduce hydroelectric generation, and negatively affect IDACORP's or Idaho Power's results of operations and financial condition. For the last several years, Idaho Power has been engaged in an effort to renew its federal license for its largest hydroelectric generation source, the Hells Canyon Complex. Relicensing includes an extensive public review process that involves numerous natural resource issues and environmental conditions. The listing of various species of marine life, wildlife, and plants as threatened or endangered has resulted in significant changes to federally-authorized activities, including those of hydroelectric projects. In particular, fish and other marine life recovery plans may require major operational changes to the region’s hydroelectric projects. In addition, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to hydroelectric facilities, which could further increase required expenditures for marine life recovery and endangered species protection and reduce the amount of hydroelectric generation available to meet Idaho Power’s energy requirements. 22Table of Contents In 2007, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Staff issued a final environmental impact statement for the Hells Canyon Complex, which the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission will use in part to determine whether, and under what conditions, to issue a new license for the Hells Canyon Complex. Certain portions of the final environmental impact statement involve issues that may be influenced by water quality certifications for the project under Section 401 of the Clean Water Act and formal consultations under the Endangered Species Act, which remain unresolved. One significant issue involves water temperature gradients, and certain parties in the relicensing proceedings have advocated for the installation of water temperature management apparatus which, if required to be installed, would require substantial capital expenditures to construct and maintain. Idaho Power may be unable to recover in full the costs of such an apparatus through rates, particularly given the magnitude of any potential impact on customer rates. Idaho Power also cannot predict the requirements that might be imposed during the relicensing process, the financial impact of those requirements, or whether a new multi-year license will ultimately be issued. Imposition of onerous conditions in the relicensing process could result in Idaho Power incurring significant capital expenditures, increase operating costs (including power purchase costs), and reduce hydroelectric generation, which could negatively affect results of operations and financial condition.IDACORP's and Idaho Power's operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations, and unusually mild or extreme temperatures and weather can impact their results of operations and financial condition. Idaho Power's electric power sales are seasonal, with demand in Idaho Power's service area peaking during the hot summer months, with a secondary peak during the cold winter months. The loads required by irrigation customers in Idaho Power's service area can also create significant seasonal changes in usage. Market prices for power also often increase significantly during these peak periods, at times when Idaho Power is required to purchase power in the wholesale markets to meet customer demand. By contrast, when temperatures are relatively mild or where precipitation supplants irrigation systems, loads are often lower as customers are not using electricity for heating and air conditioning or irrigation purposes. Thus, unusually mild weather or the timing and extent of precipitation in the future could adversely impact IDACORP's and Idaho Power's results of operations and financial condition. Complying with state or federal renewable portfolio standards could increase capital expenditures and operating costs and adversely affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's results of operations and financial condition. A number of states have adopted renewable portfolio standards, which require that electricity providers obtain a minimum percentage of their power from renewable energy sources by a specified date. Idaho Power’s operations in Oregon will be required to comply with a ten percent renewable portfolio standard beginning in 2025, and it is possible that other states, including Idaho, could adopt renewable portfolio standards. The cost of purchasing or generating power from renewable energy sources is often greater than fossil fuel and hydroelectric generation sources, and construction of renewable energy facilities involves significant capital expenditures. As a result, new state or federal renewable portfolio standards could increase capital expenditures and operating costs and negatively affect results of operations and financial condition.Idaho Power’s reliance on coal and natural gas to fuel its non-hydroelectric power generation facilities exposes it to the risk of increased costs and reduced earnings. As part of its normal business operations, Idaho Power purchases coal and natural gas in the open market or under short-term or long-term contracts, often with variable-pricing terms. Market prices for coal and natural gas are influenced by factors impacting supply and demand such as weather conditions, fuel transportation availability, economic conditions, and changes in technology. Most of Idaho Power's coal supply arrangements are under long-term contracts for coal originating in Wyoming. Any disruption of coal production in, or transportation from, that region may cause Idaho Power to incur additional fuel supply costs or use alternative generation sources or wholesale market power purchases. Idaho Power may from time to time enter into new, or renegotiate, these long-term contracts, but can provide no assurance that such contracts will be negotiated or renegotiated, as the case may be, on satisfactory terms, or at all. Natural gas transportation to Idaho Power's natural gas plants is limited to one primary pipeline, presenting a heightened possibility of supply disruptions. Idaho Power is also exposed to the risk that its counterparties to fuel purchase arrangements will default on their obligations, causing Idaho Power to seek alternative sources of fuel or rely on other generation sources or wholesale market power purchases. Idaho Power may not be able to fully recover these increased costs through rates or its power cost adjustment mechanisms, which may adversely affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations. Idaho Power’s generation, transmission, and distribution facilities are subject to numerous operational risks unique to it and its industry. Operating risks associated with Idaho Power's generation, transmission, and distribution facilities include equipment failures, volatility in fuel and transportation pricing, interruptions in fuel supplies, increased regulatory compliance costs, labor disputes, accidents and workforce safety matters, release of hazardous or toxic substances into the air, water, or ground, acts of terrorism or sabotage, the loss of cost-effective disposal options for solid waste such as coal ash, operator error, and the occurrence of catastrophic events at the facilities. Diminished availability or performance of those facilities could result in reduced customer satisfaction, reputational harm, and regulatory inquiries and fines. Operation of Idaho Power's owned and co-owned generating stations below expected capacity levels, or unplanned outages at these stations, could cause reduced energy output and lower efficiency levels and result in lost revenues and increased expenses for alternative fuels or wholesale 23Table of Contents market power purchases. Accidents, fires, explosions, system damage or dysfunction, and other unplanned events related to Idaho Power's infrastructure would increase repair costs and may expose Idaho Power to claims for personal injury or property damage. Further, the transmission system in Idaho Power's service territory is constrained, limiting the ability to transmit electric energy within the service territory and access electric energy from outside the service territory during high-load periods. Idaho Power's transmission facilities are also interconnected with those of third parties, and thus operation of Idaho Power's and third parties' facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events. These transmission constraints and events could result in failure to provide reliable service to customers and the inability to deliver energy from generating facilities to the power grid, or not being able to access lower cost sources of electric energy, which could have a negative effect on IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations. Volatility in the financial markets, or denial of regulatory authority to issue debt or equity securities, may negatively affect IDACORP’s and Idaho Power’s ability to access capital and/or increase their cost of borrowing, or result in losses on investments. IDACORP and Idaho Power use short-term and long-term debt as a significant source of liquidity and funding for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flow. Financial markets have in recent years experienced extreme volatility and disruption, at times resulting in a decrease in the availability of liquidity and credit for borrowers. In a volatile credit environment, Idaho Power may be unable to issue short-term or long-term debt at reasonable interest rates or at all, one or more of the participating banks in IDACORP’s and Idaho Power’s credit facilities may default on their obligations to make loans under, or may withdraw from, the credit facilities, or IDACORP’s and Idaho Power’s access to capital may otherwise be inhibited. In addition, at times Idaho Power has a relatively large balance of short-term investments. Volatility in the financial markets may result in a lack of liquidity for short-term investments and declines in value of some investments. The occurrence of any of these events could affect Idaho Power's ability to execute its business plan and adversely affect IDACORP’s and Idaho Power’s results of operations and financial condition. Further, Idaho Power is required to obtain regulatory approval in Idaho, Oregon, and Wyoming in order to borrow money or to issue securities and is therefore dependent on the public utility commissions of those states to issue favorable orders in a timely manner to permit them to finance their operations. Notably, without additional approval from those commissions, the aggregate amount of short-term borrowings by Idaho Power at any one time outstanding may not exceed $450 million. Idaho Power maintains its credit facilities primarily to provide back-up for commercial paper programs. These facilities include financial covenants that limit the amount of debt that can be outstanding as a percentage of total capital. Idaho Power's long-term debt has also been issued under an indenture that contains a number of financial covenants. Failure to maintain these covenants could preclude IDACORP and Idaho Power from issuing commercial paper, borrowing under their credit facilities, or issuing long-term debt, and could trigger a default and repayment obligation under debt instruments, which could adversely impact IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and liquidity. A downgrade in IDACORP’s and Idaho Power’s credit ratings could affect the companies’ ability to access capital, increase their cost of borrowing, and require the companies to post collateral with transaction counterparties. Access to capital markets is important to IDACORP's and Idaho Power's ability to operate and to complete capital projects, including its planned transmission projects. Credit rating agencies periodically review the corporate credit ratings and long-term ratings of IDACORP and Idaho Power. These ratings are premised on financial ratios and performance, the regulatory environment and mechanisms, management and their effectiveness, resource risks and power supply costs, and other factors. These ratings impact access to, and the cost of, borrowing. IDACORP and Idaho Power also have borrowing arrangements that rely on the ability of the banks to fund loans or support commercial paper, a principal source of short-term financing. Downgrades of IDACORP’s or Idaho Power’s credit ratings, or those affecting relationship banks, could limit the companies’ ability to access capital, including commercial paper markets, require the companies to pay a higher interest rate on their debt, and require the companies to post additional performance assurance collateral with transaction counterparties.Idaho Power’s risk management policy and programs relating to economically hedging power and gas exposures, financial and interest rate risk, and counterparty creditworthiness may not always perform as intended, and as a result IDACORP and Idaho Power may suffer economic losses. Idaho Power enters into transactions to hedge its positions in coal, natural gas, power, and other commodities, and enters into financial hedges to mitigate in part price exposure. IDACORP and Idaho Power could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. The derivative instruments might not offset the underlying exposure being mitigated as intended, due to pricing inefficiencies or other terms of the derivative instruments, and any such failure to mitigate exposure could result in financial losses. Further, forecasts of future fuel needs and loads and available resources to meet those loads are inherently uncertain and may cause Idaho Power to over- or under-hedge actual resource needs, exposing the company to market risk on the over- or under-hedged position. To the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, Idaho Power may not be able to execute its risk management strategies, which could result in undesired over-exposure to unhedged positions. As a result, risk management actions may adversely affect IDACORP’s and Idaho Power’s financial condition and results of operations. 24Table of Contents Idaho Power could be subject to penalties and operational changes if it violates mandatory reliability and security requirements, which could adversely impact IDACORP's and Idaho Power's results of operations and financial condition. As an owner and operator of a bulk power transmission system, Idaho Power is subject to mandatory reliability standards issued by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation and enforced by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and are guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with reliability standards subjects Idaho Power to higher operating costs and increased capital expenditures. Further, Idaho Power has received in recent years notices of violations from, and regularly self-reports reliability standard compliance issues to, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, and the Western Electricity Coordinating Council, as applicable. Potential monetary and non-monetary penalties for a violation of Federal Energy Regulatory Commission regulations may be substantial, and in some circumstances monetary penalties may be as high as $1 million per day per violation. The imposition of penalties on Idaho Power could have a negative effect on its and IDACORP’s results of operations and financial condition. Federally mandated purchases of power from PURPA power projects, and integration of power generated from those projects into Idaho Power's system, may increase costs and decrease system reliability, and adversely affect Idaho Power's and IDACORP's results of operations and financial condition. An abundance of intermittent, non-dispatchable wind power generation at times when Idaho Power has available lower-cost resources to meet load demands has an impact on the operation of Idaho Power's hydroelectric generation plants, system reliability, power supply costs, and the wholesale power markets in the Pacific Northwest. Wind power generated from PURPA projects, which Idaho Power is generally obligated to purchase regardless of the then-current load demand or wholesale energy market prices, increases the likelihood and frequency that Idaho Power will be required to reduce output from its lower-cost hydroelectric and fossil fuel-fired generation resources, increasing power purchase costs. Further, balancing load and generation from Idaho Power's power generation portfolio is challenging, and Idaho Power expects that its operational costs will increase as a result of its efforts to integrate intermittent, non-dispatchable power from a large number of PURPA power projects. Recent efforts to obtain further authorization to curtail certain intermittent power sources during light-load times have been unsuccessful. Idaho Power anticipates that costs will escalate as the volume of wind and other intermittent power on Idaho Power's system increases, which may negatively affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's results of operations and financial condition. The performance of pension and postretirement benefit plan investments and other factors impacting plan costs and funding obligations could adversely affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations - primarily cash flows and liquidity. Idaho Power provides a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan covering most employees, as well as a defined benefit postretirement benefit plan (consisting of health care and death benefits) that covers eligible retirees. Costs of providing these benefits are based in part on the value of the plans' assets and, therefore, adverse investment performance for these assets could increase Idaho Power’s plan costs and funding requirements related to the plans. The key actuarial assumptions that affect funding obligations are the expected long-term return on plan assets and the discount rate used in determining future benefit obligations. Idaho Power evaluates the actuarial assumptions on an annual basis, taking into account changes in market conditions, trends, and future expectations. Estimates of future equity and debt market performance, changes in interest rates, and other factors Idaho Power and its actuary firms use to develop the actuarial assumptions are inherently uncertain, and actual results could vary significantly from the estimates. Changes in demographics, including timing of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase Idaho Power's plan costs and funding requirements. Future pension funding requirements and the timing of funding payments are also subject to the impacts of changes in legislation. Depending on the timing of contributions to the plans and Idaho Power's ability to recover costs through rates, cash contributions to the plans could reduce the cash available for the companies' businesses and dividends. For additional information regarding Idaho Power's funding obligations under its benefit plans, see Note 11 - "Benefit Plans" to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. As a holding company, IDACORP does not have its own operating income and must rely on the cash flows from its subsidiaries to pay dividends and make debt payments. IDACORP is a holding company with no significant operations of its own, and its primary assets are shares or other ownership interests of its subsidiaries, primarily Idaho Power. IDACORP’s subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to IDACORP, whether through dividends, loans, or other payments. The ability of IDACORP’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to IDACORP depends on several factors, including each subsidiary's actual and projected earnings and cash flow, capital requirements and general financial condition, regulatory restrictions, covenants contained in credit facilities to which they are parties, and the prior rights of holders of their existing and future first mortgage bonds and other debt or equity securities. Further, the amount and payment of dividends is at the discretion of the board of directors, which may reduce or cease payment of dividends at any time. See Item 5 - "Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities" in this report for a further description of restrictions on IDACORP's and Idaho Power's payment of dividends. 25Table of Contents Employee workforce factors, including the impacts of an aging workforce with specialized utility-specific functions, could increase costs and adversely affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations. Idaho Power is subject to workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key personnel, availability of qualified personnel, an aging workforce, and impacts of efforts to organize the workforce. A unionization attempt that was launched in late-2012 was unsuccessful, but does not prevent future unionization attempts. Idaho Power’s operations require a skilled workforce to perform specialized utility functions. Many of these positions, such as linemen, grid operators, and generation plant operators, require extensive, specialized training. Idaho Power expects that a significant portion of its skilled workforce will be retiring within the current decade, which will require Idaho Power to attract, train, and retain skilled workers to prevent a loss of institutional knowledge and avoid a skills gap. Without a skilled workforce, Idaho Power’s ability to provide quality service to its customers and meet regulatory requirements will be challenging, which could negatively affect earnings. The costs associated with attracting and retaining appropriately qualified employees to replace an aging and skilled workforce could have a negative effect on IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations. IDACORP and Idaho Power are subject to costs and other effects of legal and regulatory proceedings, disputes, and claims. From time to time in the normal course of business IDACORP and Idaho Power are subject to various lawsuits, regulatory proceedings, disputes, and claims that could result in adverse judgments or settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, or other relief. These matters are subject to a number of uncertainties, and as a result management is often unable to predict the outcome of a matter. As an example, over the past decade Idaho Power has been a party to proceedings relating to high prices for electricity, energy shortages, and blackouts in California and in western wholesale markets during 2000 and 2001, which caused numerous purchasers of electricity in those markets to initiate proceedings seeking refunds or other forms of relief and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to initiate its own investigations. While Idaho Power has largely disposed of direct claims in those proceedings, the settlements and associated Federal Energy Regulatory Commission orders did not eliminate the potential for speculative "ripple claims," which involve potential claims for refunds from an upstream seller of power based on a finding that its downstream buyer was liable for refunds as a seller of power during the relevant period. Idaho Power's settlement payments in those proceedings have been relatively small to date, but the legal costs of defending the claims over the past decade have been substantial. In recent years, Idaho Power has also been a party to legal proceedings advanced by private parties relating to alleged violations of environmental laws at coal-fired plants. The legal costs and final resolution of matters in which IDACORP or Idaho Power are involved could have a negative effect on their financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, the terms of resolution could require the companies to change their business practices and procedures, which could also have a negative affect on their financial positions and results of operations.Acts or threats of terrorism, cyber attacks, security breaches, and other acts of individuals or groups seeking to disrupt Idaho Power's operations, or the businesses of third parties, could negatively impact IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations. Idaho Power's generation and transmission facilities are potential targets for terrorist acts and threats, as well as cyber attacks and other disruptive activities of individuals or groups. Some of Idaho Power's facilities are deemed "critical infrastructure," in that incapacity or destruction of the facilities could have a debilitating impact on security, reliability or operability of the bulk electric power system, national economic security, national public health or safety, or any combination of those matters. The possibility that infrastructure facilities, such as generation facilities and electric transmission facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or cyber attack (whether originating internally or externally) may affect Idaho Power's operations by limiting the ability to generate, purchase, or transmit power and by delaying the development and construction of new generating and transmission facilities and capital improvements to existing facilities. These events, and governmental actions in response, could result in a material decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to repair and insure Idaho Power's assets, and could further adversely affect Idaho Power's operations by contributing to disruption of supplies and markets for natural gas or coal used to fuel gas- or coal-fired power plants. In the normal course of business, Idaho Power collects, processes, and retains sensitive and confidential customer and proprietary information, and operates systems that directly impact the availability of electric power and the transmission of electric power in the electric grid. Despite the security measures in place, Idaho Power's facilities and systems could be vulnerable to security breaches, data leakage, or other similar events that could interrupt operations, exposing Idaho Power to liability. Those breaches and events may result from acts of Idaho Power employees, contractors, or third parties. If Idaho Power's information technology and security systems were to fail or be breached and Idaho Power were unable to recover the systems and/or data in a timely manner, Idaho Power may be unable to fulfill critical business functions. In such case, confidential and proprietary business, employee, or customer information could be compromised, exposing Idaho Power to liability and causing business disruptions, which could negatively affect Idaho Power's business operations and IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial condition and results of operations. 26Table of Contents Idaho Power's business and operations may be adversely affected by its inability to successfully implement information technology projects. Idaho Power has undertaken several multi-year company-wide information technology solution upgrades intended to replace existing software and systems, some of which have been completed and some of which are ongoing or in early stages. These projects include a new customer information system implemented in 2013, Idaho Power's SmartGrid initiative, and the current migration from Idaho Power's existing mainframe system to an open system. Idaho Power is also implementing systems to augment and improve its ability to pinpoint the sources of electric system outages, respond to them more quickly, and focus repair efforts. Implementation of these information systems and technology solutions is complex, expensive, and time consuming. If Idaho Power does not successfully implement the new systems and processes, or if the systems do not operate as intended or cause data or operational errors, it could result in substantial disruptions to Idaho Power's business, which could have a material adverse effect on IDACORP's and Idaho Power's results of operations and financial condition.Changes in tax laws and regulations, or differing interpretation or enforcement of applicable laws by the Internal Revenue Service or other taxing jurisdictions, could have a material adverse impact on IDACORP’s or Idaho Power’s financial condition and results of operations. IDACORP and Idaho Power must make judgments and interpretations about the application of the law when determining the provision for taxes. The companies’ tax obligations include income, real estate, public utility, municipal, sales and use, business and occupation, and employment-related taxes and ongoing issues related to these taxes. These judgments may include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that may be subject to challenge by taxing authorities. In recent years, tax settlements, as well as state regulatory mechanisms with tax-related provisions (such as Idaho Power's December 2011 settlement with the Idaho Public Utilities Commission), have significantly impacted IDACORP's and Idaho Power's results of operations. The outcome of ongoing and future income tax proceedings, or the state public utility commissions' treatment of those tax outcomes, could differ materially from the amounts IDACORP and Idaho Power record prior to conclusion of those proceedings, and the difference could negatively affect IDACORP’s and Idaho Power’s earnings and cash flows. Further, in some instances the treatment from a ratemaking perspective of any tax benefits could be different than IDACORP or Idaho Power anticipate or request from applicable state regulatory commissions, which could have a negative effect on their financial condition and results of operations. Changes in accounting standards or Securities and Exchange Commission rules may impact IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial results and disclosures. The Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission may make changes to accounting standards that impact presentation and disclosures of financial condition and results of operations. Further, new accounting orders issued by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission could significantly impact IDACORP's and Idaho Power's reported financial condition. Idaho Power meets conditions under generally accepted accounting principles to reflect the impact of regulatory decisions in its financial statements and to defer certain costs as regulatory assets until those costs are collected in rates, and to defer some items as regulatory liabilities. Idaho Power expects to recover its regulatory assets from customers through rates but recovery is subject to review by the regulatory bodies. If recovery of these amounts ceases to be probable, if Idaho Power determines that it no longer meets the criteria for applying regulatory accounting, or if accounting rules change to no longer provide for regulatory assets and liabilities, Idaho Power could be required to eliminate some or all of those regulatory assets or liabilities. Any of these circumstances could result in write-offs and have a material effect on IDACORP's and Idaho Power’s financial condition and results of operations.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None.