Risk Factors. Set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file or furnish with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and operations and cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. 14 Risks Related to Operations Current economic conditions and turmoil in the credit markets expose us to a variety of risks. Current economic conditions, the availability and cost of credit, the mortgage market, and declining real estate markets have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for real estate markets and the economy as a whole on a going-forward basis. Many economists are predicting continued recessionary economic conditions in the United States in 2009, along with significant increases in unemployment and vacancy rates at commercial properties. As a result, current economic conditions and the credit crisis may cause commercial real estate values and market rental rates to decline significantly. These declines could adversely impact us in a number of ways, including by causing us to record losses on our assets, reducing the proceeds we receive upon sale or refinance of our assets or adversely impacting our ability to re-let our owned properties. Current economic conditions and the credit crisis may also cause one or more of the tenants to whom we have exposure to fail or default in their payment obligations, which could cause us to record material losses or a material reduction in our cash flows. If we lower or eliminate our dividend, the market value of our common stock may decline. The level of our common stock dividend is established by our board of directors from time to time based on a variety of factors, including market conditions, our cash available for distribution, our funds from operations and our maintenance of REIT status. Various factors could cause our board of directors to decrease or eliminate our common stock dividend level, including continued credit market dislocations, tenant defaults resulting in a material reduction in our cash flows or a material loss resulting from an adverse change in one or more of the tenants underlying our investments. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level and we cannot assure you that we will be able to pay dividends in the future. If we lower or eliminate our common stock dividend, the market value of common stock in our company could be adversely affected. If we pay our dividend in shares of common stock, the market value of our common stock may decline. In order to maintain our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to stockholders each year. IRS guidance allows us to pay a portion of our annual distributions in shares of common stock rather than cash (up to 90% in 2009) if we meet certain conditions. In order to preserve liquidity, our Board of Directors may conclude to pay a portion of our dividend in shares of common stock. If they do so, the market value of common stock in our company could be adversely affected. We conduct a significant part of our business with Wachovia Bank, N.A. and its affiliates, and their continued business with us is not guaranteed. We rely on Wachovia Bank, N.A. and its affiliates in various aspects of our business. For example: · Wachovia Bank and its affiliates provide us with debt financing through a credit agreement. · We have obtained mortgage financing on our owned properties from Wachovia Bank in the past, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. · Affiliates of Wachovia Bank have performed investment banking services for us, including in connection with our initial public offering, our CDO transaction and each of our follow-on public equity offerings. · We enter into derivative transactions from time to time with Wachovia Bank. Wachovia Bank came under significant financial distress during 2008 and in late September 2008, Wachovia agreed to merge with Wells Fargo & Company. We have limited relationships with Wells Fargo and it is unclear how our relationship with Wachovia Bank will be impacted by the merger with Wells Fargo. These parties are not obligated to do business with us, and any adverse developments in their business or in our relationship with them could result in these parties choosing not to do business with us or a significant reduction in our business with them. Termination of our business with the merged entity or its affiliates or a significant reduction in our business with these parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The market price of our stock may be adversely impacted by our pace of investment activity. The markets in which we compete for investments are competitive and our pace of investment activity continues to be impacted by competitive and market conditions. We have not added assets to our portfolio since the credit market dislocations began in the summer of 2007 and if dislocations persist or intensify we may be unable to grow our portfolio during 2009. If our pace of investment activity does not match market expectations the market price of our stock could be adversely affected. 15 Risks Related to Portfolio Assets Single tenant leases involve significant risks of tenant default. We focus our investment activities on ownership of real properties and loans on real properties that are leased to a single tenant. Therefore, the financial failure of, or other default in payment by, a single tenant under its lease is likely to cause a complete reduction in the operating cash flows from that investment and a significant reduction in the value of our investment, and could cause a significant reduction in our revenues and a significant impairment loss recorded directly to our Statement of Operations. The current economic conditions and the credit crisis may put financial pressure on and increase the likelihood of the financial failure of, or other default in payment by, one or more of the tenants to whom we have exposure. An adverse change in the financial condition of one or more tenants underlying our investments could have a material adverse impact on us. We rely on rent payments by the underlying tenant for our cash flows and make portfolio investments based on the financial strength of such tenant and our expectations of their continued payment of rent under the lease. Therefore, adverse changes in the financial condition of the tenants or the certainty of their ability to pay rents could have a material adverse impact on us. For example: · The bankruptcy or insolvency of any of our tenants could result in that tenant ceasing to make rental payments, resulting in a reduction of our cash flows and losses to our company. · The value of our investments is substantially driven by the credit quality of the underlying tenant or tenants, and an adverse change in the subject tenant’s financial condition or a decline in the credit rating of such tenant may result in a decline in the value of our investments and a charge to our Statement of Operations. · An adverse change in the financial condition of one or more of the tenants underlying our investments or a decline in the credit rating of one or more of the tenants underlying our investments could result in a margin call if the related asset is being financed on our Wachovia Bank credit facility, and could make it more difficult for us to arrange long-term financing for that asset, including by increasing our cost of financing. · We own the subordinate classes in our CDO financings and subordinate equity in any other term financings. If the underlying tenant on any asset financed in our CDO or other term financing fails to make rental payments, our cash flows may be redirected to the senior owners. Our investments may be subject to impairment charges. We periodically evaluate our investments for impairment indicators. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on a variety of factors depending upon the type of investment, but generally includes an evaluation of the credit quality of the underlying tenant or tenants, our expectations regarding future cash flows and the estimated fair value of our investment and/or related collateral. With respect to our securities investments, we also consider the length of time and the extent to which the estimated fair value has been below cost and whether we have the intent and ability to retain our investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for a full recovery. Market conditions over the past 18 months have resulted in increases in credit spreads and generally lower fair valuations for our securities. If these conditions continue or persist, we may be required to record impairment losses on our securities, and these losses may be significant. If we determine that an impairment has occurred, we would be required to reduce the carry value of our investment, which would adversely affect our results of operations and funds from operations through losses recorded directly to our Statement of Operations in the applicable period. Bankruptcy laws will limit our remedies if an underlying tenant becomes bankrupt and rejects the lease. We rely on rent payments from the underlying tenant to service our financing of the asset and generate the spread we expect to earn. If the tenant becomes insolvent or bankrupt, they have the right under the United States Bankruptcy Code to reject the lease and rent payments could cease. In such a case, our remedies will be limited under the Bankruptcy Code. The premises may not be recoverable promptly from the tenant and our claim for damages, which will be unsecured and is limited to rent under the lease for the greater of one year or 15 percent (but not more than three years) of the remaining term, plus rent already due but unpaid, may not be sufficient to cover our debt service and any other expenses with respect to the property. We are subject to tenant credit concentrations that make us more susceptible to adverse events with respect to certain tenants. We are subject to tenant credit concentrations, the most significant of which are the following as of December 31, 2008: · approximately $217.0 million, or 10.3%, of our assets represent investments in properties leased to the United States Government; and 16 · approximately $198.2 million, or 9.4%, of our assets represent investments in properties leased to, or leases guaranteed by, Nestlé Holdings, Inc. Any bankruptcy, insolvency or failure to make rental payments by, or any adverse change in the financial condition of, one or more of these tenants, or any other tenant to whom we may have a significant credit concentration now or in the future, could result in a material reduction of our cash flows or material losses to our company. We are subject to tenant industry concentrations that make us more susceptible to adverse events with respect to certain industries. We are subject to industry concentrations, the most significant of which are the following as of December 31, 2008: · approximately $343.2 million, or 16.3%, of our assets represent investments in properties leased to, or leases guaranteed by, companies in the insurance industry (e.g., Aon Corporation, Allstate Insurance Company, Farmers New World Life Insurance Company, Aetna Life Insurance Company, Factory Mutual Insurance Company and Travelers Corporation); · approximately $264.3 million, or 12.6%, of our assets represent investments in properties leased to, or leases guaranteed by, companies in the food and beverage industry (e.g., Nestlé Holdings, Inc. and Cadbury Schweppes Holdings (US)); · approximately $163.4 million, or 7.8%, of our assets represent investments in properties leased to, or leases guaranteed by, companies in the retail grocery industry (e.g., The Kroger Co. and Koninklijke Ahold, N.V.); · approximately $144.3 million, or 6.9%, of our assets represent investments in properties leased to, or leases guaranteed by, companies in the financial industry (e.g., Capital One Financial Corporation, AmeriCredit Corp. and AMVESCAP PLC); · approximately $139.5 million, or 6.6%, of our assets represent investments in properties leased to, or leases guaranteed by, companies in the retail department stores industry (e.g., TJX Companies, Inc. and Kohl’s Corporation); and · approximately $104.6 million, or 5.0%, of our assets represent investments in properties leased to, or leases guaranteed by, companies in the retail home improvements industry (e.g., Lowe’s Companies, Inc. and Home Depot USA, Inc.). Any downturn in one or more of these industries, or in any other industry in which we may have a significant credit concentration now or in the future, could result in a material reduction of our cash flows or material losses to our company. We are subject to geographic concentrations that make us more susceptible to adverse events in these areas. We are subject to geographic concentrations, the most significant of which are the following as of December 31, 2008: · approximately $226.3 million, or 10.8%, of our assets represent investments in properties located in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania metropolitan area; · approximately $187.4 million, or 8.9%, of our assets represent investments in properties located in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area; · approximately $184.9 million, or 8.8%, of our assets represent investments in properties located in the Chicago, Illinois metropolitan area; · approximately $150.0 million, or 7.1%, of our assets represent investments in properties located in the New York City and Northern New Jersey area; · approximately $106.4 million, or 5.1%, of our assets represent investments in properties located in the Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas metropolitan area; and · approximately $105.0 million, or 5.0%, of our assets represent investments in properties located in the Southern California area. An economic downturn or other adverse events or conditions such as terrorist attacks or natural disasters in one or more of these areas, or any other area where we may have a significant credit concentration now or in the future, could result in a material reduction of our cash flows or material losses to our company. 17 Our investments in assets backed by below investment grade credits have a greater risk of default. We invest in assets where the underlying tenant’s credit rating is below investment grade (approximately $200.0 million, or 9.5%, of our portfolio as of December 31, 2008). These investments will have a greater risk of default and bankruptcy than investments in properties leased exclusively to investment grade tenants. Our investments in assets where the underlying tenant does not have a publicly available credit rating expose us to certain risks. We have historically been successful at obtaining attractively priced term financing for our assets due in part to the high credit quality of the underlying tenant. When we invest in a loan or property where the underlying tenant does not have a publicly available credit rating, we rely on our own estimates of the tenant’s credit rating and usually subsequently obtain a private rating from S&P or Moody’s to allow us to finance the asset as we had planned. If our lender, S&P or Moody’s disagrees with our ratings estimates, we may not be able to obtain our desired level of leverage and/or our financing costs may exceed those that we projected. This outcome could have an adverse impact on our returns on that asset and hence our operating results. Risks Related to Ownership of Real Estate It may be difficult for us to buy and sell real estate quickly and their values may decline. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to vary our portfolio by selling and buying properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions is limited. We may encounter difficulty in disposing of properties when tenants vacate either at the expiration of the applicable lease or otherwise. If we decide to sell any of our properties, our ability to sell these properties and the prices we receive on their sale may be affected by many factors, including the number of potential buyers, the number of competing properties on the market and other market conditions, as well as whether the property is leased and if it is leased, the terms of the lease. In addition, the mortgage debt we put on the property and REIT tax requirements restrict our ability to quickly re-sell properties we have purchased. As a result, we may be unable to sell our properties for an extended period of time without incurring a loss, which would adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We may not be able to renew our leases or re-lease our properties. Upon the expiration of leases on our properties, we may not be able to re-let all or a portion of that property, or the terms of re-letting (including the cost of concessions to tenants) may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain tenants upon the expiration of their leases. If we are unable to re-let promptly, or if the rental rates upon re-letting are significantly lower than the current rates, our funds from operations and cash available for distribution to stockholders will be adversely affected due to the resulting reduction in rental receipts and increase in property operating costs. These risks are increased as a result of our acquisition of the EntreCap portfolio during 2007. All of the properties in the EntreCap portfolio other than the Kroger properties are subject to leases that are scheduled to expire over the next four years, including the Factory Mutual Insurance Company lease that is scheduled to expire in July 2009. It may be difficult to re-let these properties at the end of the lease term, and the terms of any such re-let may be less favorable to us than the current lease terms. Factory Mutual Insurance Company is in the process of constructing a new corporate headquarters building adjacent to the building we own and currently lease to them, and has allowed its renewal option on our building to lapse. In addition, certain of the properties in the EntreCap Portfolio are subject to leases with rents significantly above market. Deteriorating economic conditions could adversely impact our ability to re-let space on favorable terms as leases expire. Operating expenses of our properties could reduce our cash flow and funds available for future dividends. For certain of our owned properties, we are responsible for operating costs of the property. In these instances, our lease requires the tenant to reimburse us for all or a portion of these costs, either in the form of an expense reimbursement or increased rent. Our reimbursement may be limited to a fixed amount or a specified percentage annually. To the extent operating costs exceed our reimbursement, our returns and net cash flows from the property and hence our overall operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We have greater exposure to operating costs when we invest in owned properties leased to the United States Government. Our leases with the United States Government are typical Government Services Administration, or GSA, type leases. These leases do not provide that the United States Government is wholly responsible for operating costs of the property, but include an operating cost component within the rent we receive that increases annually by an agreed upon percentage based upon the Consumer Price Index, or CPI. Thus, we have greater exposure to operating costs on our properties leased to the United States Government because if the operating costs of the property increase faster than the CPI, we will bear those excess costs. 18 An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the insurance policy limits on our owned properties could subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties. Our comprehensive loss insurance policies may include substantial deductibles and certain exclusions. For example, our earthquake insurance coverage for properties we own in seismic zones 3 or 4 will typically include a customary deductible of five percent of our insurable value. If we are subject to an uninsured loss or a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible, we could lose part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, the property, which could harm our operating results and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. Noncompliance with environmental laws could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. The real properties we own are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. Under these laws, courts and government agencies have the authority to require the current owner of a contaminated property to clean up the property, even if the owner did not know of and was not responsible for the contamination. For example, liability can be imposed upon us based on activities of one of our tenants or a prior owner. Prior to acquisition of a property, we obtain Phase I environmental reports and, in some cases, a Phase II environmental report. However, these reports may not reveal all environmental conditions at a property and we may incur material environmental liabilities of which we are unaware. The costs incurred to clean up a contaminated property, to defend against a claim, or to comply with environmental laws could be material and could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Our real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property. As an owner of real property (including any real property we may acquire upon a loan foreclosure), we are subject to various additional risks not otherwise discussed in these risk factors and generally incident to the ownership of the real estate. These risks may include those listed below: · civil unrest, acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses, and acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of the terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001; · adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; · the costs of complying or fines or damages as a result of non-compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act; · changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; · the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures; and · other circumstances beyond our control. Should any of these events occur, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Debt Assets We invest in CMBS securities, including "first loss" and other subordinate securities, which entail certain risks. We invest in commercial mortgage-backed securities, or CMBS. CMBS securities entitle the holder to receive payments that depend primarily on the cash flow from a specified pool of commercial mortgage loans. Our CMBS investments include classes of securities backed by pools of first mortgage loans on net lease properties (with most of the underlying loan collateral originated by us in the mid to late 1990s), as well as investments in generic CMBS pools, or securities backed by loans on a variety of multifamily and commercial properties, such as regional malls, other retail space, office buildings, industrial or warehouse properties, hotels, apartment buildings, mobile home parks, nursing homes and senior living centers. Generally, we have invested in subordinate classes of the securitization pool, including ownership of the “first loss” position or near “first loss” position in the event of losses on the assets within the pool. We may not be able to recover all or part of our investment in our CMBS securities. In addition, the value of these investments may be adversely affected by defaults or decreases in the value of the underlying collateral, increases in market rates for similar collateral pools or economic downturns, and we may be required under GAAP to record an impairment loss on our investments if any of these developments occur. Current economic conditions have increased the likelihood of losses on assets within the pool and, therefore, increased the likelihood that we will incur losses on our securities. 19 We have limited recourse in the event of a default on any of our mortgage loans. Our mortgage loan investments are non-recourse obligations of the property owner, and, in the event of default, we are generally dependent entirely on the loan collateral to recover our investment. Our loan collateral consists primarily of a mortgage on the underlying property and an assignment of the tenant’s lease. In the event of a default, we may not be able to recover the premises promptly and the proceeds we receive upon sale of the property may be adversely affected by risks generally incident to interests in real property, including changes in general or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments, declines in real estate values, increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses including energy costs, changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation, acts of God, and other factors which are beyond our or our borrower’s control. Current market conditions may reduce the proceeds we are able to receive or our ability to re-let the property in the event of a foreclosure on our collateral. As discussed above, bankruptcy laws will limit our remedies with respect to the tenant’s lease. There can be no assurance that our remedies with respect to the loan collateral will provide us with a recovery adequate to recover our investment. We may experience losses on our mortgage loans. We originate mortgage loans on properties subject to a net lease as part of our investment strategy. The typical net lease requires the borrower or tenant to maintain casualty insurance on the underlying property. These insurance policies may include substantial deductibles and certain exclusions. If the underlying property is subject to a casualty loss that is uninsured or subject to a substantial deductible, rent payments on the related lease may cease, our loan may default and we could lose some or all of our investment. Our collateral rights under our corporate credit notes are limited. Our collateral rights on our corporate credit notes are more limited than the collateral rights we have under our long-term mortgage loans. Our corporate credit notes represent one of two notes comprising a single first mortgage loan on a net lease property. Both notes are secured by the same first mortgage and assignment of the tenant’s lease and rents, and the note holders have agreed amongst themselves that the corporate credit note holder will have a junior claim on the real estate mortgage and a senior claim on the rents in the event of a tenant bankruptcy and lease rejection. So our collateral rights with respect to the real estate mortgage will be junior to the holder of the related real estate note. Further, while we will have a senior claim on the lease assignment in a tenant bankruptcy, as discussed above, our claim for damages will be unsecured and limited to an amount defined under the Bankruptcy Code (the greater of one year’s rent or 15% (but not more than three years) of rent over the remaining lease term, plus rent already due but unpaid). Our mezzanine investments have a greater risk of loss than mortgage loans. We make mezzanine and other generally subordinate investments. These investments generally involve a higher degree of risk than our first mortgage loans. While we expect most of these investments will be secured, we expect our right to payment and security interest will be subordinated to one or more senior lenders. Therefore, we may be limited in our rights to collect scheduled payments on these investments and to recover any of our investment through a foreclosure of collateral. Our mezzanine investments may also include an interest only payment schedule, with the principal amount remaining outstanding and at risk until the maturity of the obligation. In this case, a borrower’s ability to repay its obligation may be dependent upon a liquidity event, such as a sale of the related property or other collateral or refinancing of the debt. We may be subject to losses from the investments we make in franchise loans. During 2006, we entered into a revolving credit agreement with a third party borrower. We agreed to fund loans from time to time of up to $12 million to support the borrower’s capital contributions to a joint venture that makes franchise loans to franchisees of YUM! Brands, Inc. restaurant concepts such as Taco Bell, Kentucky Fried Chicken and Pizza Hut. These loans are secured by a pledge of the borrower’s interest in the joint venture and a guarantee by one of the principals of the borrower. While our commitment to fund these loans has now been terminated, we had loans of approximately $6.2 million to the borrower as of December 31, 2008. Our loans expose us to various unique risks, which could result in losses to us. These risks include the following: · During 2008, our borrower failed to make certain scheduled principal payments due us under the loan agreement although it has remained current on interest. In addition, our borrower has advised us that it will be required to refinance our position with a different lender, raise additional equity capital or sell franchise loans to generate the proceeds to meet its principal repayment obligations under our loan. Our borrower’s ability to do so has been and may continue to be adversely impacted by current economic conditions. · Because our investments ultimately fund franchise loans, our ability to collect interest on and scheduled principal payments of our loans will be depend in part upon the financial health of the underlying franchisees’ business. We have very limited experience evaluating franchise loans and we do not re-underwrite the underlying franchise loans, but rely primarily on the underwriting efforts performed by or on behalf of our borrower. 20 · Adverse events with respect to one or more of the YUM! Brands franchises, such as the E. coli outbreak associated with Taco Bell Stores in November/December 2006, could adversely impact the underlying franchisee borrowers and hence our investment. · A third party lender has a first priority lien in the underlying franchise loans, and therefore, our collateral is limited in the event of a default by our borrower as a result of non-payment by a franchisee. Development loans involve greater risk of loss than loans secured by income producing properties. We have made investments in development loans that involve a higher degree of risk than long-term first mortgage loans secured by income-producing real property, due to a variety of factors. These factors include the subordinate status of our loan investment, dependence for repayment on successful completion and operation of the project, difficulties in estimating construction or rehabilitation costs, loan terms that often require little or no amortization, and the possibility that a foreclosure by the holder of the senior loan could result in a substantial decrease in the value of our collateral. Accordingly, in the event of a borrower default, we may not recover some or all of our investment in our development loans. We may be required to repurchase assets that we have sold or to indemnify holders of the notes issued in our term financings. If any of the assets we originate or acquire and sell or pledge to obtain long-term financing do not comply with representations and warranties that we make about certain characteristics of the assets, the borrowers and the underlying properties, we may be required to repurchase those assets or replace them with substitute assets. In addition, in the case of assets that we have sold, we may be required to indemnify persons for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty. Repurchased assets may require a significant allocation of working capital to carry on our books, and our ability to borrow against such assets may be limited. Any significant repurchases or indemnification payments could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Maintenance of our Investment Company Act of 1940 exemption imposes limits on our operations. We intend to continue to conduct our business in a manner that allows us to avoid registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “1940 Act”). Under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act, entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring “mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate” are not treated as investment companies. The position of the SEC staff generally requires us to maintain at least 55% of our assets directly in qualifying real estate interests in order for us to rely on this exemption (the “55% Requirement”). To constitute a qualifying real estate interest under this 55% Requirement, a real estate interest must meet various criteria. Mortgage securities that do not represent all of the certificates issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgages may be treated as securities separate from the underlying mortgage loans and, thus, may not qualify for purposes of the 55% Requirement. Our ownership of these mortgage securities, therefore, is limited by the provisions of the 1940 Act and SEC staff interpretations. We cannot assure you that efforts to pursue our investment strategy will not be adversely affected by operation of the 1940 Act. Risks Related to Borrowings Leveraging our portfolio is an important component of our strategy and subjects us to increased risk of loss. A key component of our strategy is to borrow against, or leverage, our assets to allow us to invest in a greater number of assets and enhance our asset returns. However, leverage also subjects us to increased risk of loss. The use of leverage may result in increased losses to us in the following ways: · We rely on the cash flows from the assets financed to fund our debt service requirements. Therefore, in the event of a tenant default on its rent payments, our losses are expected to increase as we will need to fund our debt service requirements from other sources. · To the extent we have financed our assets under our variable rate credit facility with Wachovia Bank, our debt service requirements will increase as short-term interest rates rise. In addition, if short-term interest rates rise in excess of the yields on our assets financed, we will be subject to losses. · Our lenders will have a first priority claim on the collateral we pledge and the right to foreclose on the collateral. Therefore, if we default on our debt service obligations, we would be at risk of losing the related collateral. · Our credit facility with Wachovia Bank is a fully recourse lending arrangement. Therefore, if we default on this facility, our lenders will have general recourse to our company’s assets, rather than limited recourse to just the assets financed. 21 Increases in our cost of financing may cause our expected spreads on new assets to erode. The profitability of our portfolio (and, in turn, our business) is driven by the returns on our assets, based on the spread between the yields generated by our assets and the cost of financing our portfolio. We generally secure long-term financing for our assets after we agree to acquire them. Therefore, if our cost to finance our assets increases over our assumptions at the time we commit to invest, the spread we expected to earn on the asset (and hence our overall portfolio) will erode. Various factors could cause our financing cost to increase, including: · widening of credit spreads as investors’ appetite for credit risk diminishes; · a decline in the credit rating of the underlying tenant; · increases in long-term interest rates; · market dislocation events, such as those experienced in the credit markets since the summer of 2007; · ineffectiveness of our hedging strategies; · weakening economic conditions; and · United States military activity and terrorist activities. Spread erosion could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to implement our long-term financing strategy. Part of our business strategy is to secure long-term financing of our assets to enable us to invest in a greater number of assets and enhance our asset returns. Our ability to implement our long-term financing strategy is subject to the following risks: · We may not be able to achieve our desired leverage level due to decreases in the market value of our assets, increases in interest rates and other factors. · We are subject to conditions in the mortgage, CDO and other long-term financing markets which are beyond our control, including the liquidity of these markets and maintenance of attractive credit spreads. We are not currently able to obtain attractive long-term financing for our assets due to market conditions. · In the event of an adverse change in the financial condition of our underlying tenant, it may not be possible or it may be uneconomical for us to obtain long-term financing for the subject asset. Our inability to implement our long-term financing strategy may cause us to experience lower leveraged returns on our assets than would otherwise be the case, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may not be able to finance our investments on a long-term basis on attractive terms, which may require us to seek more costly financing for our investments or to liquidate assets. As part of our investment strategy, we acquire loans and securities which we finance on a floating rate, recourse borrowing facility with a view to long-term, fixed rate, non-recourse financing once we have aggregated a sufficiently large enough pool to finance the assets efficiently. During the period we finance these assets on a recourse facility, we bear the risk of being unable to finance the assets on a non-recourse basis at attractive prices or in a timely matter, or at all. If it is not possible or economical for us to finance such assets on a non-recourse basis, we may be unable to pay down our recourse facility, or be required to liquidate the assets at a loss in order to do so. If we sell an asset at less than what the lender has advanced to us against that asset, we will remain liable to the lender for the shortfall because of the recourse nature of the facility. Our use of debt financing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flows will be insufficient to meet required principal and interest payments and the risk that we will be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness, or that the terms of such refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of our existing indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, the scheduled principal payments on our long-term debt over the next five years and thereafter were as follows: 22 Expected Maturity Dates 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter (in thousands, notional amounts where appropriate, otherwise carrying amounts) Mortgages on real estate investments $ 13,371 $ 15,741 $ 36,433 $ 132,081 $ 70,139 $ 704,559 Collateralized debt obligations (41 ) 25,417 11,683 12,409 12,549 206,248 Credit facility 15,130 174,132 – – – – Secured term loan 9,649 12,191 13,737 15,380 13,602 59,160 Convertible senior notes – – – 71,760 – – Other long-term debt – – – – – 30,930 We expect that the reinvestment feature of our CDO will enable us to reinvest about $8 million of principal repaid on assets financed in the CDO into new assets in 2009, and we currently intend to apply this amount to assets financed on the credit facility. Negative amounts shown with respect to our collateralized debt obligations represent amortization of original issue discount. Included in the above amounts are balloon payments on our debt instruments. Most of our debt provides for balloon payments that are payable at maturity. Our ability to make these balloon payments will depend upon our ability to refinance the related debt, raise additional equity capital and/or sell assets or any related collateral. Our ability to accomplish these goals will be affected by various factors existing at the relevant time, such as the state of the national and regional economies, local real estate conditions, available interest rate levels, the lease terms for and equity in and value of any related collateral, our financial condition and the operating history of the collateral, if any. In addition, current credit market conditions have made it difficult to refinance real estate related debt. We cannot judge the duration of the credit crunch or whether or not the situation will intensify. Accordingly, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms as favorable as the existing indebtedness. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing to fund the scheduled balloon payments or to sell the related collateral at a price that generates sufficient proceeds to pay the scheduled balloon payments, we could lose all or a substantial portion of our investment in the asset. Our convertible senior notes and other long-term debt are unsecured and, therefore, it may be more difficult to generate sufficient proceeds to repay these obligations in the future. These obligations are also recourse, meaning that our lender will have general recourse against our assets if we fail to make required payments on the debt. If our debt cannot be paid, refinanced or extended, we may not be able to make distributions to stockholders at expected levels or at all. Further, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of a refinancing result in higher interest rates or other restrictive financial covenants upon the refinancing, then such refinancing would adversely affect our cash flows and funds available for operation and distribution. Hedging transactions may not effectively protect us against anticipated risks and may subject us to certain other risks and costs. We may enter into hedging transactions to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations prior to the time we obtain long-term fixed rate financing for our assets. Our hedging strategy exposes us to certain risks, among them the following: · No hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates and, therefore, our hedging strategy may not have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. · There will be various market risks which we do not intend or expect to hedge against, including changes in credit spreads. · Hedging transactions are entered into at the discretion of our management team and they may conclude that it is not in our company’s best interest to hedge the interest rate risks with respect to certain expected long-term financings, particularly during periods of market dislocation. As a result of market conditions, we are not currently carrying an open interest rate hedge to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations for assets for which we may obtain long-term financing for in the future. Our decision to do so leaves us exposed to increases in long-term interest rates for those assets and, therefore, may make it more difficult or more costly to obtain long-term financing. · Our hedging strategy may serve to reduce the returns which we could possibly achieve if we did not utilize the hedge. · Because we intend to structure our hedging transactions in a manner that does not jeopardize our status as a REIT, we are limited in the type of hedging transactions that we may use. 23 · Hedging costs increase as the period covered by the hedge increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising. · Our hedging transactions may not perform as expected, including during periods of market dislocation. · If we do not obtain long-term financing in the time frame we designate at the time of the hedge transaction, our hedging strategy may not have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. We may fail to qualify for hedge accounting treatment. We record derivative and hedge transactions in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, specifically Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (“SFAS 133”). Under these standards, we may fail to qualify for hedge accounting treatment for a number of reasons, including if we use instruments that do not meet the SFAS 133 definition of a derivative (such as short sales), we fail to satisfy SFAS 133 hedge documentation requirements or we fail initial or subsequent quarterly hedge effectiveness assessment requirements. If we fail to qualify for hedge accounting treatment, our operating results may suffer because any losses on the derivatives we enter into would be charged to our Statement of Operations without any offset from the change in fair value of the related hedged transaction. Our April 2008 credit facility with Wachovia Bank is a secured, recourse obligation and exposes us to interest rate and margin call risks. In April 2008, we entered into a two-year credit agreement with an option for a third year with Wachovia Bank, and we refinanced the assets securing our short-term repurchase agreement on the new facility at closing. As part of the transaction, we repaid all of our borrowings under and terminated the repurchase agreement. While this new facility relieves short-term refinancing risk, it exposes us to a variety of risks, including the following: · It is priced at floating rates based on 30-day LIBOR, or the London Interbank Offered Rate. Therefore, increases in the 30-day LIBOR rate will cause our borrowing costs to increase and our net income to decrease. · The facility is recourse to all of our other assets. In the event we experience a default under the assets securing the facility, we will remain obligated to satisfy our obligations to Wachovia out of other assets of our company. · We are subject to margin call risk under the loan facility documents. Wachovia has the right in its sole discretion to revalue our collateral, provided that Wachovia may not reduce the value of any of our collateral other than CMBS securities due to general credit spread or interest rate fluctuations. In the event Wachovia determines that the value of our collateral has decreased, it has the right to make a margin call. A margin call would require us to make up any collateral shortfall with cash or additional portfolio assets. We may not have sufficient cash or portfolio assets to do so. A failure to meet a margin call could cause us to default under the facility and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. · We have borrowed the full amount permitted under the loan documents based on the lender’s current valuation of our collateral. In order to borrow any additional amounts under the facility, we will be required to post additional collateral. Further, Wachovia has the right to reject any asset that we seek to finance on the facility. New accounting treatment for our convertible senior notes is expected to cause our reported interest expense to increase. FASB recently adopted FASB Staff Position No. Accounting Principles Board 14-1, “Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement),” reflecting new rules that change the accounting for certain convertible debt instruments, including our convertible senior notes. Under these new rules, an issuer of a convertible debt instrument that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion is required to account for the liability and equity components of the instrument separately. The debt component is recorded at an estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of a similar debt instrument without the conversion feature, and the difference between the proceeds for the convertible debt and the amount reflected as a debt liability is recorded as additional paid-in capital. As a result, the debt is treated as if it had been issued at a discount and is subsequently accreted to its par value over its expected life, with a rate of interest that reflects the issuer’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate. The resulting interest expense will likely be higher than the actual cash interest expense payable on the instrument. The new rules are effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2008, and is applied retrospectively to all periods presented. We will adopt the requirements of the FSP on January 1, 2009, and estimate that upon adoption, our “additional paid-in capital” balance will increase by approximately $5.3 million, our “convertible senior notes” balance will be reduced by approximately $5.5 million and our “other assets” (debt issuance costs, net) will decrease by $0.2 million. As a result of the adoption, we expect to record additional non-cash interest expense of $0.3 million, $1.2 million and $1.3 million, for fiscal year 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. 24 The use of CDO financings with coverage tests may have a negative impact on our operating results and cash flows. We have used CDO financings in the past and may look to do so in the future. We retain the subordinate classes of bonds in our CDO financings. The terms of the CDO securities issued by us include cash flow coverage tests that are used primarily to determine whether and to what extent principal and interest proceeds on the underlying assets may be used to pay principal of and interest on the subordinate classes of bonds in the CDO. These cash flow coverage tests consist of an overcollateralization test and an interest coverage test. The overcollateralization test ensures that a minimum amount of collateral par amount secures the related notes. The interest coverage test ensures that cash coupon payments generated from the CDO collateral will be adequate to pay fees and interest due on the related notes. In the event the cash flow coverage tests are not satisfied, interest and principal that would otherwise be payable on the subordinate classes may be re-directed to pay principal on the senior bond classes. Therefore, failure to satisfy these coverage tests could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Risks Related to Lease Enhancements Our lease enhancement mechanisms may fail. We have developed certain lease enhancement mechanisms designed to reduce the risks inherent in our net lease investments. These lease enhancement mechanisms include: · casualty and condemnation insurance policies that protect us from any losses due to any rights the tenant may have to terminate the underlying net lease or abate rent as a result of a casualty or condemnation; and · borrower reserve funds that protect us from any losses due to any rights the tenant may have to terminate the underlying net lease or abate rent as a result of the failure of the property owner to maintain and repair the property or related common areas. These lease enhancement mechanisms may not protect us against all losses. For example, our casualty and condemnation policies typically contain exclusions relating to war, insurrection, rebellion, revolution or civil riot and radioactive matter, earthquakes (in earthquake zones) and takings (other than by condemnation) by reason of danger to public health, public safety or the environment. In addition, amounts in the borrower reserve fund may be insufficient to cover the cost of maintenance or repairs, and the borrower may fail to perform such maintenance or repairs at its own expense. The failure of our lease enhancement mechanisms may result in the loss of all or part of our capital invested in, and profits anticipated from, our investment, and could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We depend on our insurance carriers to provide and honor lease enhancements. There are a limited number of insurance carriers from whom we can obtain specialized lease enhancement insurance policies, and, therefore, our ability to replace one or more of our current carriers is restricted. Any of the following developments with respect to our carriers may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results: · a deterioration in our relationship with one or more of the carriers; · a bankruptcy or other material adverse financial development with respect to one or more of the carriers; and · a dispute as to policy coverage with one or more of the carriers. We may determine not to apply lease enhancement mechanisms that would otherwise protect us. In determining whether a lease enhancement mechanism is appropriate, we examine the costs and benefits of the lease enhancement mechanism in light of our analysis of the risks associated with the underlying net lease. As a result of this analysis, we may decline to apply a lease enhancement mechanism that would otherwise protect us. Actual losses may exceed our estimates and, therefore, our decision not to apply appropriate lease enhancement mechanisms may result in the loss of all or part of our capital invested in, and profits anticipated from, our investment, and could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. 25 Risks Related to Business Strategy and Policies We face significant competition that could harm our business. We are subject to significant competition in each of our business segments. We compete with specialty finance companies, insurance companies, investment banks, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, mutual funds, institutional investors, pension funds, hedge funds, other lenders, governmental bodies and individuals and other entities, including REITs. We may face new competitors and, due to our focus on net lease and other single tenant properties located throughout the United States, and because many of our competitors are locally and/or regionally focused, we may not encounter the same competitors in each region of the United States. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources and may have other advantages over our company. Our competitors may be willing to accept lower returns on their investments, may have access to lower cost capital and may succeed in buying the assets that we target for acquisition. We may incur costs on unsuccessful acquisitions that we will not be able to recover. Our failure to compete successfully could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our network of independent mortgage brokers and investment sale brokers may sell investment opportunities to our competitors. An important source of our investments comes from independent mortgage brokers and investment sale brokers. These brokers are not contractually obligated to do business with us. Further, our competitors also have relationships with many of these brokers and actively compete with us in our efforts to obtain investments from these brokers. As a result, we may lose potential transactions to our competitors, causing our investment pace to slow, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our stock. Joint venture investments will expose us to certain risks. We may from time to time enter into joint venture transactions for portions of our exiting or future portfolio assets, which may include certain of our real properties and/or some or all of our loan and securities investments. Investing in this manner subjects us to certain risks, among them the following: · We will not exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the joint venture’s business and assets and, thus, we may not be able to take actions that we believe are in our company’s best interests. · We may be required to accept liability for obligations of the joint venture (such as recourse carve-outs on mortgage loans) beyond our economic interest. · Our returns on joint venture assets may be adversely affected if the assets are not held for the long-term, or a period of about ten years. Our ability to grow our business will be limited by our ability to attract debt or equity financing, and we may have difficulty accessing capital on attractive terms. We expect to fund future investments primarily from debt or equity capital. Therefore, we are dependent upon our ability to attract debt or equity capital from public or institutional lenders. Since the second half of 2007, the capital markets have entered a period of significant instability, and this instability may continue and/or intensify, and result in us being unable to raise additional debt and/or equity capital at an acceptable cost. The capital markets also have been, and in the future may be, adversely affected by various other events or conditions beyond our control, such as the United States’ military involvement in the Middle East and elsewhere, the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, the ongoing War on Terrorism by the United States and the bankruptcy of major companies, such as Lehman Brother Holdings Inc. and Enron Corp. Events such as an escalation in the War on Terrorism, new terrorist attacks, or additional bankruptcies in the future, as well as other events beyond our control, could adversely affect the availability and cost of capital for our business. As a REIT, we will also be dependent upon the availability and cost of capital in the REIT markets specifically, which can be impacted by various factors such as interest rate levels, the strength of real estate markets and investors’ appetite for REIT investments. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting sufficient debt or equity financing to fund future investments, or at an acceptable cost. Future offerings of debt and equity may not be available to us or may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We expect to continue to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of equity and debt securities in the future, which would include classes of preferred stock, common stock and senior or subordinated notes. Our ability to raise additional capital is currently being adversely impacted by market conditions, and we do not know when market conditions will stabilize or improve. All debt securities and other borrowings, as well as all classes of preferred stock, will be senior to our common stock in a liquidation of our company. Additional equity offerings could dilute our stockholders’ equity, reduce the market price of shares of our common stock, or be of preferred stock having a distribution preference that may limit our ability to make distributions on our common stock. Continued market dislocations could cause us to seek sources of potentially less attractive capital. Our ability to estimate the amount, timing or nature of additional offerings is limited as these factors will depend upon market conditions and other factors. We may fail to manage our anticipated growth. As of December 31, 2008, our company had 20 employees. As our asset base continues to grow, we may experience a significant strain on our management, operational, financial and other resources. Our ability to manage growth effectively will require us to continue to improve our operational and financial systems, expand our employee base and train and manage our employees and develop additional management expertise. Failure to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. 26 The concentration of our company’s common stock could have an adverse impact on the value of your investment. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 54.9% of our common stock was owned by eight unrelated institutional investors (based on SEC filings made by these investors). This concentration of ownership could have an adverse impact on the value of your investment, including as a result of the following: · Trading volume in our stock may be limited, which will reduce the liquidity of your investment. · The sale of a significant number of our shares in the open market by a significant stockholder or otherwise could adversely affect our stock price. · Although none of these investors on its own controls a majority of our common stock, these owners could determine to act together and given their significant concentration may be able to take actions that are not in your best interest. Our board of directors may change our investment and operational policies without stockholder consent. Our board of directors determines our investment and operational policies and may amend or revise these policies at any time, including our policies with respect to our REIT status, investment objectives, acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, or approve transactions that deviate from these policies without a vote of or notice to our stockholders. Investment and operational policy changes could adversely affect the market price of stock in our company and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The federal income tax laws governing REITs are complex, and our failure to qualify as a REIT under the federal tax laws will result in adverse tax consequences. We intend to continue to operate in a manner that will allow us to qualify as a REIT under the federal income tax laws. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex, however, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in qualifying as a REIT. At any time, new laws, interpretations, or court decisions may change the federal tax laws or the federal income tax consequences of our qualification as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income. Our taxable income would be determined without deducting any distributions to our stockholders. We might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay any such tax. If we cease to qualify as a REIT, we no longer would be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders. Unless the federal income tax laws excused our failure to qualify as a REIT, we could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year after the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT. Our ownership limitations may restrict or prevent you from engaging in certain transfers of our stock. In order to maintain our REIT qualification, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the federal income tax laws to include various kinds of entities) during the last half of any taxable year. “Individuals” for this purpose include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts, and some charitable trusts. In order to preserve our REIT qualification, our charter generally prohibits any person from directly or indirectly owning more than 9.9% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of any class or series of the outstanding shares of our capital stock. If anyone transfers shares in a way that would violate our ownership limits, or prevent us from continuing to qualify as a REIT under the federal income tax laws, we will consider the transfer to be null and void from the outset and the intended transferee of those shares will be deemed never to have owned the shares or those shares instead will be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary and will be either redeemed by us or sold to a person whose ownership of the shares will not violate our ownership limits. Anyone who acquires shares in violation of our ownership limits or the other restrictions on transfer in our charter bears the risk of suffering a financial loss when the shares are redeemed or sold if the market price of our stock falls between the date of purchase and the date of redemption or sale. 27 Provisions of our charter and Maryland law may limit the ability of a third-party to acquire control of our company. Our charter contains restrictions on stock ownership and transfer. As described above, our charter contains stock ownership limits. These limits may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control of our company that might involve a premium price for stock of our company or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our board of directors may issue additional stock without stockholder approval. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock we have authority to issue, without any action by the stockholders. Issuances of additional shares of stock may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control of our company that might involve a premium price for stock of our company or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Other provisions of our charter and bylaws may delay or prevent a transaction or change of control. Our charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control of our company that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. For example, our charter and bylaws provide that: a two-thirds vote of stockholders is required to remove a director, vacancies on our board may only be filled by the remaining directors (or, if no directors remain, by the stockholders), the number of directors may be fixed only by the directors, our bylaws may only be amended by our directors and a majority of shares is required to call a special stockholders meeting. Increased market interest rates may reduce the value of our stock. We believe that investors consider the dividend distribution rate on shares of REIT stock, expressed as a percentage of the market price of the shares, relative to market interest rates as an important factor in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of REIT stock. If market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of REIT stock may expect a higher dividend distribution rate. Higher interest rates would also likely increase our borrowing costs and might decrease cash available for distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of stock in our company to decline. The market price of our stock may vary substantially. Various factors can affect the market price of our stock including the following: · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations; · the extent of investor interest in our company, real estate generally or commercial real estate specifically; · the reputation of REITs generally and the attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income securities; · changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; · fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; and · announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances. We depend on our key personnel. We depend on the efforts and expertise of our senior management team. There is no guarantee that any member of our senior management team will remain employed with our company. If any member of our senior management team were to die, become disabled or otherwise leave our employ, we may not be able to replace him with a person of equal skill, ability and industry expertise. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 