ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are factors that could have a significant impact on the operations and financial results of IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company and could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in any forward-looking statements: • Reduced hydroelectric generation can reduce revenues and increase costs, and reduce earnings and cash flows. Idaho Power Company has a predominately hydroelectric generating base. Because of Idaho Power Company’s heavy reliance on hydroelectric generation, water can significantly affect its operations. When hydroelectric generation is reduced, Idaho Power Company must increase its use of generally more expensive thermal generating resources and purchased power and opportunities for off-system sales are reduced, which reduces revenues. In addition, while Idaho Power Company can expect to recover the majority of the net power supply costs above the level included in its rates, recovery of the excess amounts does not occur until the subsequent power cost adjustment year. • Continuing declines in stream flows and over-appropriation of water in Idaho may reduce hydroelectric generation and revenues and increase costs. The combination of declining Snake River base flows, over-appropriation of water and drought conditions have led to disputes among surface water and ground water irrigators, and the state of Idaho. Recharging the Eastern Snake Plain Aquifer, which contributes to Snake River flows, by diverting surface water to porous locations and permitting it to sink into the aquifer is one proposed solution to the dispute. Diversions from the Snake River for aquifer recharge may further reduce Snake River flows available for hydroelectric generation and reduce Idaho Power Company’s revenues and increase costs. Idaho Power Company’s recent settlement agreement with the state of Idaho resolves litigation regarding certain Idaho Power Company water rights on the Snake River and provides for ongoing Snake River water issues to be addressed in the comprehensive aquifer management plan process. However, there is no assurance that this process will lead to increased Snake River stream flows for Idaho Power Company’s hydroelectric projects. Idaho Power Company also has initiated legal action against the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation over the interpretation and effect of a 1923 contract with the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation on the operation of the American Falls Reservoir and the release of water from that reservoir to be used at Idaho Power Company’s downstream hydroelectric projects. The comprehensive aquifer management plan process and the resolution of the litigation may affect Snake River flows available for hydroelectric generation and thereby reduce Idaho Power Company revenues and increase costs. • Idaho Power Company’s reliance on coal and natural gas to fuel its power generation facilities exposes it to risk of increased costs and reduced earnings. In addition to hydroelectric generation, Idaho Power Company relies on coal and natural gas to fuel its generation facilities. Market price increases in coal and natural gas can result in reduced earnings. Increases in demand for natural gas, including increases in demand due to greater industry reliance on natural gas for power generation, may result in market price increases, short-term price volatility and/or supply availability issues. In addition, delivery of coal and natural gas depends upon gas pipelines, rail lines, rail cars and roadways. Any disruption in Idaho Power Company’s fuel supply may require the company to find alternative fuel sources at higher costs, to produce power from higher cost generation facilities or to purchase power from other sources at higher costs. • Load growth in Idaho Power Company’s service territory exposes it to greater market and operational risk and could increase costs and reduce earnings and cash flows. o Increases in both the number of customers and the demand for energy have resulted and may continue to result in increased reliance on purchased power to meet customer load requirements. The price volatility of electricity has substantially increased from what it was at the inception of the power cost adjustment. While Idaho Power Company can expect to recover the majority of the net power supply costs above the amounts included in its rates, recovery of the excess amounts does not occur until the subsequent power cost adjustment year, and the remaining amount is absorbed by Idaho Power Company which could increase costs and reduce earnings and cash flows. o Load growth can result in the need for additional investments in Idaho Power Company’s infrastructure to serve the new load. If Idaho Power Company were unable to secure timely rate relief from the Idaho Public Utilities Commission, the Oregon Public Utility Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to recover the costs of these additional investments, the resulting regulatory lag would have a negative effect on earnings and cash flows. 15 o Load growth can create planning and operating difficulties for Idaho Power Company that can negatively impact its ability to reliably serve customers. • Weather can reduce power sales and revenues and reduce earnings and cash flows. Warmer than normal winters, cooler than normal summers and increased rainfall during the irrigation seasons will reduce retail revenues from power sales and may impact the amount and timing of hydroelectric generation. Extreme weather events can disrupt transmission and distribution systems and cause service interruptions and extended outages, and potentially interrupt use of generation resources. Disruption in transmission and distribution systems increases operations and maintenance expenses and reduces earnings and cash flows. • Idaho Power Company’s risk management policy and programs relating to hedging power and gas exposures and counterparty creditworthiness may not always perform as intended, and we may suffer economic losses. Idaho Power Company actively manages the market risk inherent in its energy related activities and counterparty credit positions. Idaho Power Company has procedures that monitor compliance with our risk management policies and programs, including verification of transactions, regular portfolio reporting of various risk management metrics and daily counterparty credit risk analysis. However, actual hydroelectric and thermal generation, transmission availability and market prices may be significantly different than those originally planned for when we enter into our risk management positions. The high volatility of these items creates uncertainty in the appropriate amount of hedging activity to pursue. Forecasts of future loads and available resources to meet those loads are inherently uncertain and may cause Idaho Power Company to over- or under-hedge actual resource needs, exposing the company to market risk on the over- or under-hedged position. Changes in market prices are also unpredictable and can at times result in Idaho Power Company’s hedged positions performing less favorably than unhedged positions. In addition, Idaho Power Company’s counterparty credit policies may not prevent counterparties from failing to perform, forcing the company to replace forward contracts with transactions in the open market. As a result, risk management decisions may have significant impacts if actual events result in greater losses or costs in delivering energy to customers and could negatively affect financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. • Increased capital expenditures can significantly affect liquidity. Increases in both the number of customers and the demand for energy require expansion and reinforcement of transmission and distribution systems and generating facilities. If Idaho Power Company does not receive timely regulatory recovery, Idaho Power Company will have to rely more on external financing for its future utility construction expenditures. These large planned expenditures may weaken the consolidated financial profile of IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company. Additionally, a significant portion of Idaho Power Company’s facilities were constructed many years ago. Aging equipment, even if maintained in accordance with industry practices, may require significant capital expenditures. Failure of equipment or facilities used in Idaho Power Company’s system could potentially increase repair and maintenance expenses, purchased power expenses and capital expenditures. • If the Idaho Public Utilities Commission, the Oregon Public Utility Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission grant less rate recovery in rate case filings than Idaho Power Company needs to cover increased costs of providing services, earnings and cash flows may be reduced. If the Idaho Public Utilities Commission, the Oregon Public Utility Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission grant less rate recovery in rate case filings than Idaho Power Company needs to cover increased costs of providing services, it may have a negative effect on earnings and cash flows and could result in downgrades of IDACORP, Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s credit ratings. • Climate change could affect customer demand and hydroelectric generation and disrupt transmission and distribution systems, reducing earnings and cash flows. Long-term climate change could affect Idaho Power Company’s business in a variety of ways, including: (i) changes in temperature and precipitation could affect customer demand, (ii) extreme weather events could increase service interruptions, outages, and maintenance costs; (iii) changes in the amount and timing of snowpack and stream flows could adversely affect hydroelectric generation, and (iv) legislative and/or regulatory developments related to climate change could affect plans and operations including placing restrictions on the construction of new generation resources, the expansion of existing resources, or the operation of generation resources in general, and (v) consumer preference for, and resource planning decisions requiring, renewable or low GHG-emitting sources of energy could impact demand from existing sources and require significant investment in new generation and transmission resources. Any of these effects of climate change could reduce Idaho Power Company’s earnings and cash flows. 16 • Complying with environmental laws and regulations will increase capital expenditures and operating costs and may reduce Idaho Power Company’s earnings and cash flows and ability to meet the electricity needs of its customers. Idaho Power Company is subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, natural resources and health and safety. Compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations involves significant capital and operating expenditures. Congress is considering legislation to limit and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and the Environmental Protection Agency is taking action to address climate change and regulate greenhouse gas emissions, including the adoption of new reporting requirements that apply to Idaho Power Company’s facilities. The Environmental Protection Agency has also made an “endangerment finding” for greenhouse gas emissions from motor vehicles and has indicated that the Clean Air Act will require it to regulate carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions from major stationary sources, including Idaho Power Company’s thermal facilities, once it adopts greenhouse gas emission standards for motor vehicles. The adoption of a mandatory federal program to reduce carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions would raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, specifically coal, as an economical energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. Mercury and other pollutant emissions from Idaho Power Company’s thermal facilities are also subject to extensive regulation. The adoption of new statutes, rules and regulations to reduce emissions, including controls to reduce carbon dioxide, greenhouse gas, mercury or other pollutant emissions will result in increased capital expenditures and could increase the cost of operating coal-fired generating plants or make them uneconomical to operate and result in reduced earnings and cash flows. • Complying with state or federal renewable energy portfolio standards could increase capital expenditures and operating costs and reduce earnings and cash flows. A number of states have adopted renewable energy portfolio standards. Idaho Power Company’s operations in Oregon will be required to comply with a ten percent renewable energy portfolio standard beginning in 2025, and it is possible that Idaho and other states in which Idaho Power Company operates or sells power could adopt renewable energy portfolio standards in the future. A bill passed by the U.S. House of Representatives on June 26, 2009, would, if enacted, require utilities to obtain as much as 20 percent of their electricity from renewable sources by 2020 and reduce demand by an additional 5 percent through conservation and increased energy efficiency. A bill pending in the U.S. Senate would require 15 percent of electricity from renewable sources by 2021. New state or federal renewable energy portfolio standards could increase capital expenditures and operating costs and reduce earnings and cash flows. • The listing as threatened or endangered under the Endangered Species Act of fish, wildlife or plant species that are found in the areas of Idaho Power Company’s generation facilities or transmission lines may require mitigation, affect the location of a project or the ability to construct a project and result in increased capital expenditures and operating costs. Relicensing of the Hells Canyon and Swan Falls hydroelectric projects and the construction of Langley Gulch and the Gateway West and Boardman to Hemingway transmission lines require consultation under the Endangered Species Act to determine the effects of these projects on any listed species within the project areas. The recent listing of slickspot peppergrass as a threatened species will require an Endangered Species Act consultation for the transmission and water lines for Langley Gulch as well as for the Gateway West and Boardman to Hemingway transmission lines. This listing may also affect Idaho Power Company’s ability to purchase wind power from any wind power farms that were to be built in these areas. Any negative effects of the listing of slickspot peppergrass or any other species under the Endangered Species Act may require mitigation, cause a delay in relicensing or construction of projects, affect the location or ability to construct a project and increase the costs of construction and operations. • Conditions that may be imposed in connection with hydroelectric license renewals may require large capital expenditures, increase operating costs, reduce hydroelectric production and reduce earnings and cash flows. Idaho Power Company is currently involved in renewing federal licenses for several of its hydroelectric projects. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission may impose conditions with respect to environmental, operating and other matters in connection with the renewal of Idaho Power Company’s licenses. These conditions could have a negative effect on Idaho Power Company’s operations, require large capital expenditures and increase operating costs, reduce hydroelectric production and reduce earnings and cash flows. 17 • Idaho Power Company’s business is subject to substantial governmental regulation and may be adversely affected by increased costs resulting from, or liability under, existing or future regulations or requirements. Idaho Power Company is subject to extensive federal and state laws, policies, and regulations, as well as regulatory actions and regulatory audits, including those of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, the Western Electricity Coordinating Council and the public utility commissions in Idaho, Oregon and Wyoming. Some of these regulations are changing or subject to interpretation, and failure to comply may result in penalties or other adverse consequences. Idaho Power Company has reported compliance issues to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and the Western Electricity Coordinating Council has recently completed an audit of reliability standards. Compliance with these requirements directly influences Idaho Power Company’s operating environment and may significantly increase Idaho Power Company’s operating costs. • IDACORP, Inc., its affiliate IDACORP Energy and Idaho Power Company are subject to costs and other effects of legal and regulatory proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims. IDACORP, Inc., IDACORP Energy and Idaho Power Company are involved in a number of proceedings, including the California refund proceeding, a portion of which remains pending before the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit; a refund proceeding affecting sellers of wholesale power in the spot market in the Pacific Northwest; and show cause proceedings originating at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, a portion of which remains pending in the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. It is possible that additional proceedings related to the western energy situation may be filed in the future against IDACORP, Inc., IDACORP Energy or Idaho Power Company. IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company are or may also be subject to costs and other effects of additional legal claims, actions and complaints, including those related to the Jim Bridger, Valmy and Boardman coal-fired plants, in which Idaho Power Company holds an ownership interest. State attorneys general have brought actions against companies, seeking additional disclosure of climate change-related risks and impacts, and private parties have brought tort actions against companies relating to their alleged contribution to climate change. If IDACORP, Inc., IDACORP Energy or Idaho Power Company are required to make payments in connection with any legal or regulatory proceeding, settlement, investigation or claim, earnings and cash flows could be negatively affected. • As a holding company, IDACORP, Inc. does not have its own operating income and must rely on the upstream cash flows from its subsidiaries to pay dividends and make debt payments. IDACORP, Inc. is a holding company and thus its primary assets are shares or other ownership interests of its subsidiaries, primarily Idaho Power Company. Consequently, IDACORP, Inc.’s ability to pay dividends and to service its debt is dependent upon dividends and other payments received from its subsidiaries. IDACORP, Inc.’s subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to IDACORP, Inc., whether through dividends, loans or other payments. The ability of IDACORP, Inc.’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to IDACORP, Inc. depends on several factors, including their actual and projected earnings and cash flow, capital requirements and general financial condition, regulatory restrictions, and the prior rights of holders of their existing and future first mortgage bonds and other debt securities. • A downgrade in IDACORP, Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s credit ratings could negatively affect the companies’ ability to access capital, increase their cost of borrowing, and require the companies to post collateral with transaction counterparties. Credit rating agencies periodically review the corporate credit ratings and long-term ratings of IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company. IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company also have borrowing arrangements that rely on the ability of the banks to fund loans or support commercial paper. Downgrades of IDACORP, Inc.’s or Idaho Power Company’s credit ratings, or those affecting relationship banks, could limit the companies’ ability to access capital, including the commercial paper markets, require the companies to pay a higher interest rate on their debt and require the companies to post collateral with transaction counterparties. • Volatility and decreased lending capacity in the financial markets may negatively affect IDACORP, Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s ability to access capital and/or increase their cost of borrowing. IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company require liquidity to pay operating expenses and principal of and interest on debt and to finance capital expenditures. Financial markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption, causing the cost of borrowing to rise and the availability of liquidity and credit for borrowers to decrease; As a result, IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company may experience higher interest costs and/or be unable to access capital, including the commercial paper markets. These conditions may adversely affect IDACORP, Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 18 • One or more of the banks participating in IDACORP, Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s credit facilities could default on their obligations to fund loans requested by the companies or could withdraw from participation in the credit facilities, which could negatively affect cash flows and the ability to meet capital requirements. IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company have $100 million and $300 million multi-year revolving credit facilities, respectively, with a group of lender banks that expire in April 2012. These facilities supplement operating cash flow and provide a primary source of liquidity. The facilities are also used as backup for commercial paper borrowings and are available for general corporate purposes. IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company are subject to the risk that one or more of the participating banks may default on their obligations to make loans under the credit facilities. IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company’s inability to obtain loans under their respective credit facilities as needed could negatively affect cash flows and the ability to meet capital requirements. • IDACORP and Idaho Power Company may incur losses on their investments or be unable to sell their investments when they desire to do so, which could adversely affect their liquidity and financial condition. IDACORP and Idaho Power Company invest cash in short-term interest bearing accounts, including money market funds. Volatility in the financial markets may result in a lack of liquidity and declines in value of some money market funds. The companies may realize additional losses on some or all of their invested funds or be unable to sell their investments when they desire to do so. This could adversely affect IDACORP’s and Idaho Power Company’s liquidity and financial condition. • National and regional economic conditions may cause increased late payments and uncollectible accounts, which would reduce earnings and cash flows. Recent concerns over energy costs, the availability and cost of credit, declining business and increased unemployment have contributed to a recession. These factors have resulted, and may continue to result, in an increase in late payments and uncollectible accounts and reduce IDACORP Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s earnings and cash flows. • National and regional economic conditions, in conjunction with increased electric rates, may reduce energy consumption, which may reduce revenues and future growth. The present economic recession and increased rates may reduce the amount of energy our customers consume, result in a loss of customers and reduce customer growth. A decrease in overall customer usage may reduce revenues, earnings, and future growth. • Adverse results of income tax audits could reduce earnings and cash flows. The outcome of ongoing and future income tax audits could differ materially from the amounts currently recorded, and the difference could reduce IDACORP’s and Idaho Power Company’s earnings and cash flows. • Employee workforce factors could increase costs and reduce earnings. Idaho Power Company is subject to workforce factors, including, but not limited to, loss or retirement of key personnel, availability of qualified personnel, an aging workforce, and impacts of efforts to organize workforce, including the possible unionization of one or more segments of the workforce. The costs of attracting and retaining appropriately qualified employees to replace an aging workforce could reduce earnings and cash flows. • Terrorist threats and activities could result in reduced revenues and increased costs. IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities. Potential targets include generation and transmission facilities. The effects of terrorist threats and activities could prevent Idaho Power Company from purchasing, generating or transmitting power and result in reduced revenues and increased costs. • IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company could be vulnerable to security breaches or other similar events that could disrupt their operations, require significant capital expenditures and/or result in claims against the companies. In the normal course of business, Idaho Power Company collects, processes and retains sensitive and confidential customer and proprietary information. Despite the security measures in place, Idaho Power Company’s facilities and systems, and those of third-party service providers, could be vulnerable to security breaches or other similar events that could interrupt operations, resulting in a shutdown of service and expose Idaho Power Company to liability. In addition, Idaho Power Company may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 19 