1A. Risk Factors,” including, among others, the factors described under “Uninsured and underinsured losses could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, which may affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.” We are responsible for arranging the insurance for most of our hotels, although in certain cases, the hotel management companies that operate our hotels assume responsibility for arranging insurance under the relevant management agreement. Our properties are covered by blanket insurance policies, which cover multiple properties. In the event that these blanket policies are drawn on to cover certain losses on certain properties, the amount of insurance coverage available under such policies could thereby be reduced and could be insufficient to cover the remaining properties’ insurable risks. In August 2005, Hurricane Katrina caused substantial damage to our Hyatt Regency New Orleans property. The hurricane damage also caused significant interruption to the hotel’s business and the hotel effectively ceased operations. On August 1, 2007, we entered into a complete and final settlement with our insurer for the property with respect to property damage and business interruption insurance claims relating thereto. On December 28, 2007, we sold the Hyatt Regency New Orleans property. REIT Structure The provisions of the REIT Modernization Act of 1999, as amended (the RMA), allow REITs, subject to certain limitations, to own, directly or indirectly, up to 100% of the stock of a taxable REIT subsidiary (TRS) that can engage in businesses previously prohibited to a REIT. In particular, these provisions permit hotel REITs to own a TRS that leases hotels from the REIT, rather than requiring the lessee to be a separate, unaffiliated party. However, hotels leased to a TRS still must be managed by an unaffiliated third party. The TRS provisions are complex and impose several conditions on the use of TRSs. No more than 25% of a REIT’s assets may consist of securities of TRSs, and no more than 25% of a REIT’s assets may consist of non-qualifying assets, including securities of TRSs and other taxable subsidiaries. In addition, the RMA provides that a REIT may generally not own more than 10% of the voting power or value of a corporation that is not treated as a TRS. Ownership of Hotels Where we have an ownership interest in a hotel, the entity through which we hold such ownership interest (a Strategic Ownership Entity) will generally lease the hotel to one of our TRSs and the TRS will enter into a management agreement with an independent third party for such party to operate the hotel. A lease between a Strategic Ownership Entity and one of our TRSs (an Affiliate Lease) provides for the TRS to pay to the Strategic Ownership Entity a base rent plus a percentage rent (as more fully described below). An Affiliate Lease must 6 Table of Contents contain economic terms that are similar to a lease between unrelated parties or, pursuant to the RMA, the Strategic Ownership Entity may have to pay a 100% penalty tax on some of the payments it receives from our TRS under such Affiliate Lease. Each Affiliate Lease, other than the lease with respect to the InterContinental Prague, has a non-cancelable term of approximately five years, subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain contingencies such as damage or destruction that renders the hotel unsuitable for our TRS’ use and occupancy, condemnation or our sale or disposition of the hotel. During the term of each Affiliate Lease, other than the lease with respect to the InterContinental Prague, our TRS is obligated to pay a fixed annual base rent and a percentage rent to the applicable Strategic Ownership Entity. With respect to the InterContinental Prague, there is an existing lease agreement between the applicable Strategic Ownership Entity and its affiliated tenant that has prepaid the rent, which is being amortized on a straight-line basis over 15 years. Percentage rent is calculated by multiplying fixed percentages by gross room revenues and other revenues, subject to certain adjustments. Percentage rent is paid quarterly, except with respect to the Paris Marriott Champs Elysees, where percentage rent is paid monthly. Base rent accrues and is paid monthly. Base rents and percentage rents are adjusted annually for changes in the consumer price index or similar indices. Fixed charges, including real estate and personal property taxes, capital expenditures and a reserve for capital expenditures are obligations of the lessor under our Affiliate Lease. Our TRSs are required to pay rent, all costs and expenses and all utility and other charges incurred in the operation of the hotels we own. The party responsible for maintaining insurance on a property is dependent on the specific lease. Third Party Lease Agreements We are the tenant under leases with third-party landlords for the Paris Marriott Champs Elysees and the Marriott Hamburg. We are also the tenant under ground leases with third-party landlords where we lease the land for the Marriott Lincolnshire, the Marriott London Grosvenor Square and a parcel of land that is part of the Fairmont Scottsdale hotel property. The remaining life on the initial terms of these third party leases range from 11 to 75 years. These third party lease agreements require us to make annual rental payments comprised of a minimum rental amount (subject to indexation) and may also include additional rent comprised of a percentage of hotel operating profit, less minimum rent, or the greater of a minimum rental amount and a percentage of certain revenues. Hotel Management Agreements Most of our hotels are managed and operated by third parties pursuant to management agreements entered into between our TRSs and hotel management companies. These management agreements generally provide for the payment of base management fees within a range of 1.25% to 5.00% of revenues, as defined in the applicable agreements. In addition, an incentive fee may be paid if certain criteria are met. Certain of the management agreements also provide for the payment by us of advisory fees or license fees. The remaining terms (not including renewal options) of these management agreements range from five to 27 years. A management agreement with one of our operators typically has the terms described below. • Operational services. The manager has exclusive authority to supervise, direct and control the day-to-day operation and management of the hotel, including establishing all room rates, processing reservations, procuring inventories, supplies and services, and preparing public relations, publicity and marketing plans for the hotel. The manager receives compensation in the form of a base management fee and an incentive management fee, typically calculated as percentages of gross revenues and operating profits, respectively. In some cases, the incentive management fee is paid only after we have received a certain level of income. 7 Table of Contents • Executive supervision and management services. The manager supervises all managerial and other employees for the hotel, reviews the operation and maintenance of the hotel, prepares reports, budgets and projections and provides other administrative and accounting support services to the hotel. In some cases, we maintain authority to approve the appointment of the hotel’s general manager. • Chain services. Our management agreements require the managers to furnish chain services that are generally made available to other hotels managed by such operators. Such services include: (1) the development and operation of computer systems and reservation services, (2) management and administrative services, (3) marketing and sales services, (4) human resources training services and (5) such additional services as may from time to time be more efficiently performed on a national, regional or group level. • Working capital. Our management agreements typically require us to maintain working capital for a hotel and to fund the cost of fixed asset supplies such as linen and other similar items. We are also responsible for providing funds to meet the cash needs for the hotel operations if at any time the funds available from hotel operations are insufficient to meet the financial requirements of the hotel. • Furniture, fixtures and equipment replacements. Our management agreements generally provide that once each year the manager will prepare a list of furniture, fixtures and equipment to be acquired and certain routine repairs to be performed in the next year and an estimate of the funds that are necessary therefore, subject to our review and approval. In addition, we are required to provide to the manager all necessary furniture, fixtures and equipment for the operation of a hotel (including funding any required furniture, fixtures and equipment replacements). For purposes of funding the furniture, fixtures and equipment replacements, a specified percentage of the gross revenues of the hotel is deposited by the manager in an escrow account (typically 4.0% to 5.0%). • Building alterations, improvements and renewals. Our management agreements generally require the manager to prepare an annual estimate of the expenditures necessary for major repairs, alterations, improvements, renewals and replacements to the structural, mechanical, electrical, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, plumbing and vertical transportation elements of a hotel. In addition to the foregoing, the management agreements generally provide that the manager may propose such changes, alterations and improvements to the hotel as are required by reason of laws or regulations or, in the manager’s reasonable judgment, to keep the hotel in a safe, competitive and efficient operating condition. • Sale of the hotel. Most of our management agreements limit our ability to sell, lease, or otherwise transfer a hotel unless the transferee is not a competitor of the manager, and unless the transferee assumes the related management agreement and meets specified other conditions. • Service marks. During the term of our management agreements, the service mark, symbols and logos currently used by the manager may be used in the operation of the hotel. Any right to use the service marks, logo and symbols and related trademarks at a hotel will terminate with respect to that hotel upon termination of the management agreement with respect to such hotel. We lease one of our hotels, the Hamburg Marriott, pursuant to a lease agreement whereby rent is paid by the hotel management company that operates the hotel, as lessee, to us for an amount equal to a fixed base rent plus a specified percentage of profits in excess of the base rent. Otherwise, the terms of the lease are similar to the terms of our management contracts described above. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Corporate Governance Documents We have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics that applies to all of our employees, directors and officers, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. This code of business conduct and ethics is designed to comply with SEC regulations and New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) corporate governance rules related to codes of conduct and ethics and is posted on our corporate website at www.strategichotels.com. We intend to disclose future amendments to certain provisions of our code of business conduct and ethics, or waivers of such provisions granted to directors and specified officers, on our website within 8 Table of Contents four business days following the date of such amendment or waiver. In addition, our corporate governance guidelines and charters for our audit, compensation and corporate governance and nominating committees are also posted on our corporate website. Copies of our code of business conduct and ethics, our corporate governance guidelines and our committee charters are also available free of charge upon request directed to Corporate Secretary, Strategic Hotels & Resorts, Inc., 200 West Madison Street, Suite 1700, Chicago, Illinois 60606. Geographic and Business Segment Information For information with respect to revenues from and our long-lived assets located in different geographic areas, please refer to “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—18. Geographic and Business Segment Information.” Where to Find More Information We maintain a website at www.strategichotels.com. Through our website, we make available, free of charge, our annual proxy statement, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains a website that contains these reports at www.sec.gov. 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the information and factors discussed elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, the factors disclosed below could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any future-looking statements and could affect our future financial performance. Risks Related to Our Business The U.S. and other financial markets have been in turmoil and the U.S. and other economies in which we operate are in the midst of an economic recession, which continue to negatively impact our operations and our liquidity. The U.S. and other financial markets have been experiencing extreme dislocations and a severe contraction in available liquidity globally as important segments of the credit markets are impaired. Global financial markets have been disrupted by, among other things, volatility in security prices, rating downgrades and declining valuations, and this disruption has been acute in real estate related markets. This disruption has lead to a decline in business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment and has precipitated an economic recession around the globe. As a consequence, owners and operators of commercial real estate, including hotels and resorts, may continue to experience declines in business and real estate values in the U.S. or elsewhere and continuing liquidity constraints as lenders are unwilling or unable to originate new credit and the capital markets may be otherwise unavailable. We are unable to predict the likely duration or severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions and the effects they may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our financial covenants may adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The agreement governing our bank credit facility and certain other agreements include financial and other covenants that must be met for us to remain in compliance with those agreements. Those agreements also contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations, including our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Importantly, the bank credit facility contains financial covenants that must be met, including the maintenance of stipulated minimum levels of tangible net worth and fixed charge coverage, and maximum levels of leverage and borrowing base availability. Availability under the bank credit facility is based on, among other factors, the calculation of 1.3 times debt service coverage based on an assumed 8% loan constant for the borrowing base assets. The actual interest rate on the bank credit facility is LIBOR plus 3.75%, or 3.98% as of December 31, 2009. Our ability to borrow under our bank credit facility is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants, and our ability to comply with these covenants will be impacted by any deterioration in our operations brought on by the current economic downturn, conditions in Mexico related to the H1N1 flu outbreak and security concerns impacting travel to Mexico, potential further declines in our property values, and additional borrowings to maintain our liquidity and fund our capital and financing obligations. Our available capacity under the bank credit facility and compliance with financial covenants in 2010 and future periods will depend substantially on the financial results of our hotels, and in particular, the results of the borrowing base assets. The operating results of a borrowing base property in Mexico has been negatively impacted by the H1N1 flu outbreak and security concerns impacting travel to Mexico, as well as the general economic downturn. If these negative conditions persist, the maximum availability under the bank credit facility may decline to a level below our short-term borrowing needs. If that were to occur, outstanding borrowings exceeding the maximum availability under the bank credit facility would need to be repaid to avoid a default under the bank credit facility, absent an amendment or waiver. If we are unable to borrow under our bank credit facility or to refinance existing indebtedness, we may be prevented from funding our working capital needs. To improve liquidity in the short term, we are pursuing a number of alternatives, including but not limited to asset dispositions. In this regard, we sold two hotels in 2009. The net proceeds of any transaction could be utilized to reduce borrowings outstanding under the bank credit facility and improve liquidity. However, there 10 Table of Contents can be no assurance that a successful transaction will occur as the current economic climate negatively affects the value of our properties and the weakness in the credit markets increases the cost and difficulty for potential purchasers to acquire financing. These conditions also negatively impact our ability to increase liquidity through other means, including through the sale of equity interests. Absent sufficient successful transactions, we may seek a modification of certain terms of the bank credit facility. We may be unable to complete sufficient successful transactions or modify the terms of the bank credit facility, or otherwise address currently anticipated liquidity requirements prior to a potential reduction in the maximum availability under the bank credit facility below our short-term borrowing needs or a breach of the terms of the bank credit facility. A default under the bank credit facility would allow the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding under the facility to become due and payable. Additionally, such an acceleration event would allow for acceleration of the interest rate swaps (with a termination value of $(101,306,000) as of December 31, 2009) and SH Funding’s $180,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of 3.50% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2012 (Exchangeable Notes). In the event that negative conditions persist or worsen and we are unable to improve our short-term liquidity position or modify or obtain a waiver to our bank credit facility on acceptable terms, we will be required to take further steps to acquire the funds necessary to satisfy our short-term cash needs, including possibly liquidating some of our assets on terms that would be less attractive than would be obtainable after conditions in the economy, the credit markets and the hotel markets improve, or seeking legal protection from our creditors. If these negative conditions persist and we do not achieve a successful disposition of assets or increase its liquidity through alternative channels or modify or obtain a waiver to certain terms of the bank credit facility, then the risk increases that we may be unable to continue as a going concern. In addition, our lenders, including the lenders participating in our bank credit facility, may have suffered losses related to their lending and other financial relationships, especially because of the general weakening of the economy and increased financial instability of many borrowers. As a result, lenders may become less able or unwilling to allow us to draw down on our bank credit facility and/or we may be unable to obtain other financing on favorable terms or at all. Our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if we were unable to draw funds under our bank credit facility because of a lender default or if we were unable to obtain other financing. We have substantial debt, a portion of which is variable rate debt, and upon maturity, we plan to refinance with new debt, which may not be available when required on optimal terms or at all. We have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness, a portion of which bears interest at a variable rate, and to the extent available we may borrow additional variable rate debt under our bank credit facility. Increases in interest rates on our existing variable rate indebtedness would increase our interest expense, which could harm our cash flow and our ability to pay distributions. As of December 31, 2009, we had total debt of $1.6 billion, and, including the effect of interest rate swaps, 14.0% of our total debt had variable interest rates and 86.0% had fixed interest rates. Our significant debt may negatively affect our business and financial results, including: • requiring us to use a substantial portion of our funds from operations to make required payments on principal and interest, which reduces the amounts available for distributions to our stockholders and funds available for operations, capital expenditures, future business opportunities and other purposes; • making us more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns and reducing our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; • limiting our ability to borrow more money for operations, capital or to finance acquisitions in the future; and • requiring us to dispose of properties to make required payments of interest and principal. 11 Table of Contents Since we anticipate that our internally generated cash will be adequate to repay only a portion of our indebtedness prior to maturity, we expect that we will be required to repay debt through refinancings and/or equity offerings. The amount of our existing indebtedness may adversely affect our ability to repay debt through refinancings. See the discussion under the subheading “Debt Maturity:” in Note 9 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for quantified information regarding our debt maturities as of December 31, 2009. Due to the severe contraction in credit markets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt with new borrowings and our low common stock price may practically eliminate an equity offering as a viable financing alternative. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us and which might adversely affect cash available for distributions to our stockholders. Alternatively, any debt we may arrange may carry a higher rate of interest or the shares we issue in any equity offering may require a higher rate of dividends or other dilutive terms. As a result, certain growth initiatives could prove more costly or not economically feasible. A failure to retain or refinance our bank credit facility or to add new or replacement debt facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The $630,000,000 in non-recourse financings related to our unconsolidated joint venture that owns the Hotel del Coronado matures January 9, 2011. Due to the severe contraction in the credit markets, the reduction in real estate values generally across the luxury hospitality market, and the size and complexity of this existing financing, there can be no assurance that the joint venture, of which we are the general partner, will be able to refinance or restructure this indebtedness or cure or receive a waiver for an event of default if one were to occur. In such an instance, we could lose our investment in this joint venture of $36,458,000 as of December 31, 2009. We also intend to incur additional debt in connection with future acquisitions of real estate. We may, in some instances, to the extent available, borrow under our bank credit facility or borrow new funds to acquire properties. The curtailment of lending by many traditional commercial real estate lenders impedes our ability to grow our portfolio of hotels through future acquisitions and otherwise may prevent us from executing our business plans, including limiting the likelihood of successful asset dispositions. In addition, we may incur mortgage debt by obtaining loans secured by a portfolio of some or all of the real estate properties we acquire. If necessary or advisable, we may also borrow funds to satisfy the requirement that we distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income or to ensure otherwise that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our working capital and liquidity reserves may not be adequate to cover all of our cash needs and we may have to obtain financing from either affiliated or unaffiliated sources. The financial market turmoil and economic recession have severely contracted available liquidity and therefore sufficient financing may not be available or, if available, may not be available on reasonable terms. Additional borrowings for working capital purposes will increase our interest expense, and therefore may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. To the extent we become more leveraged, then the resulting increase in our debt service obligations would reduce cash available for distributions to our stockholders and could adversely affect our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness and harm our financial condition. The outbreak of the H1N1 virus (swine flu) may continue to have an adverse impact on our financial results. The H1N1 pandemic may continue to have a significant adverse impact on all leisure travel, as a significant number of cases have been reported in many places throughout the world and the World Health Organization, or the WHO, has raised the pandemic alert for the H1N1 virus to Phase 6, the highest level on the WHO’s alert system. Currently, it is impossible to determine the severity the recent H1N1 outbreak and the effect it will have on our results of operations. However, it is expected that the H1N1 outbreak will continue to have an adverse effect on our operating results during the first quarter of 2010, at least. 12 Table of Contents Our shares of common stock may be delisted from the NYSE if the price per share trades below $1.00 for an extended period of time, which could negatively affect our business, our financial condition and our results of operation and our ability to service our debt obligations. As of February 24, 2010, the closing price of our common stock on the NYSE was $2.34. Our common stock at times has traded below $1.00. In the event the average closing price of our common stock for a 30-day period is below $1.00, our stock could be delisted from the NYSE. The threat of delisting and/or a delisting of our common stock could have adverse effects by, among other things: • reducing the trading liquidity and market price of our common stock; • reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, thereby further restricting our ability to obtain equity financing; • causing an event of default under certain of our debt agreements, including our bank credit facility and Exchangeable Notes, which could serve to accelerate the indebtedness, including our interest rate swaps; and • reducing our ability to retain, attract and motivate directors, officers and employees. The uncertain environment in the lodging industry and the economy generally will continue to impact our financial results and growth. The present economic global recession and the uncertainty of its breadth, depth and duration have left unclear whether the lodging industry, which prior to 2008 had experienced a period of sustained growth, will continue to decline. Recent negative publicity regarding luxury hotels and decreases in airline capacity could also reduce demand for our hotel rooms. Accordingly, our financial results and growth could be harmed if the recession continues for a significant period or becomes worse. The illiquidity of real estate investments and the lack of alternative uses of hotel properties could significantly limit our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more of our properties in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. The difficulty in selling an asset is exacerbated by the dislocation in the debt and equity markets currently being experienced. In addition, hotel properties may not readily be converted to alternative uses if they were to become unprofitable due to competition, age of improvements, decreased demand or other factors. The conversion of a hotel to alternative uses would also generally require substantial capital expenditures. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We may not have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements and as a result our ability to sell the property would be limited. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could significantly harm our financial condition and results of operations. We incurred losses in fiscal years 2009 and 2008 and, due to the current negative economic environment, we may continue to incur losses in the future. We incurred net losses of $246.4 million and $317.5 million for our 2009 and 2008 fiscal years, respectively. The economic downturn has negatively impacted business and leisure travel leading to a reduction in revenues at our hotel properties. A prolonged economic downturn will likely produce continued losses. There can be no assurance that we will resume profitable operations and generate net income for our stockholders in the near term or at all. 13 Table of Contents We rely to a significant extent on our president and chief executive officer, Mr. Laurence Geller, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our continued success will depend to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our president and chief executive officer, Mr. Laurence Geller. Mr. Geller is an experienced hotel industry senior executive, operator and consultant with over 40 years of experience working with many major multinational hotel companies and executives. Mr. Geller is actively engaged in our management and determines our strategic direction, especially with regard to our operational, financing, acquisition and disposition activities. Mr. Geller’s departure could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and operating results. Mr. Geller’s employment agreement was amended and restated on August 27, 2009. Pursuant to that agreement, Mr. Geller will serve as our president and chief executive officer through December 31, 2012, subject to earlier termination under certain circumstances described in the agreement. The geographic concentration of our hotels in California makes us more susceptible to an economic downturn or natural disaster in that state. As of February 24, 2010, six of the hotels we own are located in California, the greatest concentration of our portfolio of properties in any state. California has been historically at greater risk to certain acts of nature, such as fire, floods and earthquakes, than other states, and has also been subject to a more pronounced economic downturn than other states. It is also possible that a change in California laws applicable to hotels and the lodging industry may have a greater impact on us than a change in comparable laws in another jurisdiction where we have hotels. Accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be particularly susceptible to a downturn or changes in the California economy. We have suspended the payment of dividends on our common and preferred stock. On November 4, 2008, we suspended payment of our dividend on our shares of common stock. In addition, in February 2009, our board of directors elected to suspend the quarterly dividend beginning with the first quarter of 2009 to holders of shares of our 8.50% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, of 8.25% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock and 8.25% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. We suspended these dividend payments in an effort to preserve liquidity. Pursuant to the Articles Supplementary governing our preferred stock, if we do not pay quarterly dividends on our preferred stock for six quarters, whether or not consecutive, the size of our board of directors will be increased by two and the holders of our preferred stock will have the right to elect two additional directors to our board. We can provide no assurance as to when we will resume paying dividends on our common and preferred stock, if ever. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures in the future, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which could have an adverse effect on our business. If our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, we may not be able to provide reliable financial information. Subsequent to the filing of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, we determined that our consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 included in that annual report on Form 10-K and for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 included in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for that quarter should be restated because the statements incorrectly classified certain items as cash flows from operating activities that should have been reported as cash flows from investing activities. Accordingly, we restated our consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 and our consolidated statement of cash flows for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 in our annual report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2005 and our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2006, respectively. In connection with these restatements, we determined that our internal control over financial reporting during the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005 was not effective due to the existence of a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to the proper classification of cash flows pertaining to certain escrow deposits, 14 Table of Contents purchased notes receivable and investments in our hotels. Although we have implemented additional procedures that we believe enable us to properly prepare and review our consolidated statement of cash flows, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we will maintain adequate controls over our financial reporting process in the future. If we discover additional deficiencies, we will make efforts to remediate these deficiencies; however, there is no assurance that we will be successful either in identifying deficiencies or in their remediation. Any failure to maintain effective controls in the future could adversely affect our business or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Such non-compliance could also result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, perceptions of our business among customers, suppliers, rating agencies, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others could be adversely affected. Rising operating expenses and costs of capital improvements could reduce our cash flow, EBITDA and funds available for future distributions. Our properties are subject to operating risks common to the lodging industry in general. If a property’s occupancy or room rates drop to the point where its revenues are insufficient to cover its operating expenses, then we could be required to spend additional funds for that property’s operating expenses. Our properties are continually subject to increases in real estate and other tax rates, wages and benefits, utility costs, operating expenses, insurance costs, repairs and maintenance and administrative expenses, which may reduce our cash flow, EBITDA and funds available for future distributions to our stockholders. Our hotel properties have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including replacements, from time to time, of furniture, fixtures and equipment. Some of these capital improvements are mandated by health, safety or other regulations. These capital improvements may give rise to (i) a possible shortage of available cash to fund capital improvements, (ii) the possibility that financing for these capital improvements may not be available to us on affordable terms and (iii) uncertainties as to market demand or a loss of market demand after capital improvements have begun. The costs of these capital improvements could adversely affect our financial condition and amounts available for distributions to our stockholders. Our business and operating results depend in large part upon the performance of third-party hotel management companies that manage our hotels. Our hotels are managed by third-party hotel management companies pursuant to management agreements or, with respect to the Marriott Hamburg, the lease applicable to that property. Therefore, our business and operating results depend in large part upon the performance of these hotel management companies under these management agreements. Under the terms of these management agreements, the third-party hotel managers control the daily operations of our hotels. We do not have the authority to require any hotel to be operated in a particular manner or to govern any particular aspect of the daily operations of any hotel (for instance, setting room rates). Thus, even if we believe our hotels are being operated inefficiently or in a manner that does not result in satisfactory occupancy rates, net RevPAR or average daily rate, or ADR, we may not be able to force the hotel management companies in question to change their methods of operation of our hotels. Additionally, in the event that we need to replace any hotel management company, we may be required by the terms of the applicable management agreement to pay a substantial termination fee and may experience disruptions at any affected hotel. The effectiveness of the hotel management companies in managing our hotels will, therefore, significantly affect the revenues, expenses and value of our hotels. Occasionally, we have discovered accounting errors at some of our properties relating to the improper recording of income statement expenses, misstated inventories and other items apparently caused by poor accounting practices and oversight. In the event our third-party hotel management companies are not able to implement and maintain appropriate accounting controls with respect to our properties, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Additionally, the hotel management companies that operate our hotels and their affiliates own, operate, or franchise properties other than our properties, including properties that directly compete with our properties. Therefore, a hotel management company may have different interests than our own with respect to short-term or long-term goals and objectives, including interests relating to the brand under which such hotel management company operates. Such differences may be significant depending upon many factors, including the remaining term of the applicable management agreement, trade area restrictions with respect to competitive practices by the hotel management company or its affiliates or differing policies, procedures or practices. Any of these factors may adversely impact the operation and profitability of a hotel, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. All revenues generated at our hotels, including credit card receivables, are deposited by the payors into accounts maintained and controlled by the relevant hotel management company, which pays operating and other expenses for the relevant hotel (including real and personal property taxes), pays itself management fees in accordance with the terms of the applicable management agreement and makes deposits into any reserve funds required by the applicable management agreement. In the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency involving a hotel management company, there is a risk that the payment of operating and other expenses for the relevant hotel and payment of revenues to us may be delayed or otherwise impaired. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a hotel management company may significantly impair its ability to provide services required under the management agreement. Certain of the employees at our hotels are covered by collective bargaining agreements and labor disputes may disrupt operations or increase costs at our hotels. Our hotel management companies act as employer of the hotel level employees. At certain of our hotels, these employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. At the current time, the collective bargaining agreements at our Westin St. Francis hotel and Fairmont Chicago hotel have expired. At this time, we cannot predict when or whether new agreements will be reached in these markets and what the impact of prolonged negotiations could be. If agreements are reached, the agreements may cause us to incur additional expenses related to our employees, thereby reducing our profits and impacting our financial results negatively. Additionally, if agreements are not reached and there are labor disputes, including strikes, in these and other markets in which we have hotels, operations at our hotels could suffer due to the diversion of business to other hotels or increased costs of operating the hotel during such a labor dispute, thereby impacting our financial results negatively. Our renovation and development activities are subject to timing, budgeting and other risks. We are in the process of renovating several of our properties and expect to continue similar activities in the future, as well as develop and redevelop certain properties. These renovation, development, and redevelopment activities and the pursuit of acquisition and other corporate opportunities expose us to certain risks, including those relating to: • construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs and, as a result, make the project uneconomical; • defects in design or construction that may result in additional costs to remedy or require all or a portion of a property to be closed during the period required to rectify any such situation; • the failure to complete construction of a property on schedule; • insufficient occupancy rates at a completed project impeding our ability to pay operating expenses or achieve targeted rates of return on investment; • the incurrence of acquisition and/or predevelopment costs in connection with projects that are delayed or not pursued to completion; • natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires that could adversely impact a project; 16 Table of Contents • receipt of zoning, occupancy, building, land-use or other required governmental permits and authorizations; and • governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project or timing of completion. In the case of an unsuccessful project, we may be required to write off capitalized costs associated with the project and such write-offs may be significant and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We face competition for the acquisition of real estate properties. We compete with institutional pension funds, private equity investors, other REITs, owner-operators of hotels and others who are engaged in real estate investment activities that focus on the acquisition of hotels. These competitors may drive up the price we must pay for real property, other assets or other companies we seek to acquire or may succeed in acquiring those real properties, other assets or other companies themselves. In addition, our potential acquisition targets may find our competitors to be more attractive suitors because they may have greater resources, may be willing to pay more or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In addition, the number of entities competing for suitable investment properties may increase in the future. This would result in increased demand for these real properties, other assets or other companies and therefore increase the prices required to be paid for them. If we pay higher prices for real properties, other assets or other companies, our profitability may be reduced. Also, future acquisitions of real property, other assets or other companies may not yield the returns we expect and, if financed using our equity, may result in stockholder dilution. We also may not be successful in identifying or consummating acquisitions and joint ventures on satisfactory terms. In addition, our profitability may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for intangible assets. We also may incur significant expenses in connection with acquisition or other corporate opportunities we pursue but do not consummate. Investing through partnerships or joint ventures decreases our ability to manage risk. In addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest in hotels and ancillary businesses, as a co-venturer. Joint venturers often have shared control over the operation of the joint venture assets. Therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Consequently, actions by a co-venturer might subject hotels, resorts and businesses owned by the joint venture to additional risk. Although we generally seek to maintain sufficient control of any joint venture, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. Alternatively, our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. Additionally, should a joint venture partner become bankrupt, we could become liable for our partner’s share of joint venture liabilities. Risks Related to the Lodging and Real Estate Industries A number of factors, many of which are common to the lodging industry and beyond our control, could affect our business, including those described elsewhere herein as well as the following: • increased competition from new supply or existing hotel properties in our markets, which would likely adversely affect occupancy and revenues at our hotels; • dependence on business, commercial and leisure travelers and tourism; • dependence on group and meeting/conference business; • increases in energy costs, airline strikes or other factors that may affect travel patterns and reduce the number of business and commercial travelers and tourists; and • risks generally associated with the ownership of hotel properties and real estate, as we discuss in more detail below. 17 Table of Contents These factors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, which may affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Uninsured and underinsured losses could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, which may affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Various types of catastrophic losses, such as losses due to wars, terrorist acts, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes or pollution or other environmental matters generally are either uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be subject to insurance coverage limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. Although our earthquake insurance coverage is limited, as of February 24, 2010, six of our hotels are located in California, which has been historically at a greater risk for certain acts of nature (such as fire, floods and earthquakes) than other states. Our InterContinental Miami and Four Seasons Punta Mita Resort are located in areas that are prone to hurricanes and/or floods. In the event of a catastrophic loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the full current market value or replacement cost of our lost investment. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. In the event of a significant loss that is covered by insurance, our deductible may be high and, as a consequence, it could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also keep us from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate a hotel after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under those circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might be inadequate to restore our economic position in the damaged or destroyed property. Certain events, such as Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005, have historically made it more difficult and expensive to obtain property and casualty insurance, including coverage for windstorm, flood and earthquake damage, and such events could occur again. We may encounter difficulty in obtaining or renewing property insurance, including coverage for windstorm, flood and earthquake damage, or casualty insurance on our properties at the same levels of coverage, under similar terms and in a timely manner due to a lack of capacity in the insurance markets or a lack of availability of such insurance at commercially reasonable rates. Insurance we would be able to obtain may be more limited and for some catastrophic risks (e.g., earthquake, flood, windstorm and terrorism) may not be generally available to fully cover potential losses. Even if we would be able to obtain new policies with desired levels and with limitations, we cannot be sure that we would be able to obtain such insurance at premium rates that are commercially reasonable or that there would not be gaps in our coverage. If we were unable to obtain adequate insurance on our properties for certain risks or in a timely manner, it would expose us to uninsured losses and could cause us to be in default under specific covenants on certain of our indebtedness or other contractual commitments which require us to maintain adequate insurance on our properties to protect against the risk of loss. If this were to occur, or if we were unable to obtain adequate insurance and our properties experienced damage which would otherwise have been covered by insurance, it could materially adversely affect our financial condition and the operations of our properties. We obtain terrorism insurance to cover any property damage caused by any terrorism act under a separate stand-alone policy of insurance, and also have terrorism insurance under our general liability program and in our program for directors’ and officers’ coverage. We may not be able to recover fully under our existing terrorism insurance for losses caused by some types of terrorist acts, and federal terrorism legislation does not ensure that we will be able to obtain terrorism insurance in adequate amounts or at acceptable premium levels in the future. Insurers only have to provide terrorism coverage to the extent mandated by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (TRIPRA) effective December 26, 2007. While TRIPRA will reimburse insurers for losses resulting from nuclear, radiological, biological and chemical perils, TRIPRA does not require insurers to offer coverage for these perils and, to date, insurers are not willing to provide this coverage, even with government reinsurance. Any damage related to war and to nuclear, biological and chemical incidents, therefore, is excluded under our policies. TRIPRA is due to expire on December 31, 2014. There is no guaranty that 18 Table of Contents terrorism insurance will be readily available or affordable before or after expiration of the TRIPRA in December 2014 or that TRIPRA will not be modified or repealed. As a result of the above, there remains uncertainty regarding the extent and adequacy of terrorism coverage that will be available to protect our interests in the event of future terrorist attacks that impact our properties. We derive revenues from outside the United States, which subjects us to different legal, monetary and political risks, as well as currency exchange risks, and may cause unpredictability in our cash flows. Our business plan assumes that a portion of our investments will continue to be in hotel properties located outside the United States. International investments and operations generally are subject to various political and other risks that are different from and in addition to those for U.S. investments and operations, including: • enactment of laws prohibiting or restricting the foreign ownership of property; • laws restricting us from removing profits earned from activities within the country to the United States (i.e., nationalization of assets located within a country); • changes in laws, regulations and policies, including land use, zoning and environmental laws, and in real estate and other tax rates; • exchange rate fluctuations; • change in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funds resulting from varying national economic policies or changes in interest rates; • high administrative costs; and • terrorism, war or civil unrest. Unfavorable legal, regulatory, economic or political changes such as those described above could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The threat of terrorism has historically adversely affected the lodging industry generally and these adverse effects may worsen if there are further terrorist events. The threat of terrorism has historically caused a significant decrease in hotel occupancy and average daily rates due to disruptions in business and leisure travel patterns and concerns about travel safety. Future terrorist acts, terrorism alerts or outbreaks of hostilities could have a negative effect on travel and on our business. Seasonal variations in revenue at our hotels can be expected to cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenues. Revenues for hotels in tourist areas generally are substantially greater during tourist season than other times of the year. To the extent that cash flows from operations are insufficient during any quarter, due to seasonal fluctuations in revenues, we may have to enter into short-term borrowings to fund operations, pay interest expense or make distributions to our stockholders. We consider acquisition opportunities in the ordinary course of our business; we face competition in the acquisition of properties and properties that we acquire may not perform as anticipated. In the ordinary course of our business and when our liquidity position permits, we consider strategic acquisitions. The acquisition of properties involves risks, including the risk that the acquired property will not perform as anticipated and the risk that any actual costs for rehabilitating, repositioning, renovating and improving identified in the pre-acquisition process will exceed estimates. There is, and it is expected that there will continue to be, significant competition for acquisitions that meet our investment criteria as well as risks associated with obtaining financing for acquisition activities. 19 Table of Contents Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations could increase our compliance costs and liabilities and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our hotel properties are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local environmental laws. Under these laws, courts and government agencies have the authority to require us, as owner of a contaminated property, to clean up the property, even if the contamination pre-dated our ownership of the property or we did not know of or were not responsible for the contamination. These laws may also force a party who owned a property at the time of its contamination, but no longer owns the property, to be responsible for the cleanup. In addition to the costs of clean-up, environmental contamination can affect the value of a property and, therefore, an owner’s ability to borrow funds using the property as collateral or to sell the property. These laws can also impose liability on parties that arrange for the disposal of wastes at an offsite property that becomes contaminated. In addition, some of these environmental laws can restrict the use of a property and place conditions on various activities. An example would be laws that require a business using hazardous substances on a property (such as swimming pool and lawn care chemicals) to manage them carefully and to notify local officials that the chemicals are being used. Failure to comply with these laws could result in fines and penalties or expose us to third-party liability. From time to time, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) designates certain sites affected by hazardous substances as Superfund sites. Superfund sites can cover large areas, affecting many different parcels of land. The EPA may choose to pursue parties regardless of their actual contribution to the contamination. The Hilton Burbank Airport and Convention Center, which we sold in September 2006, is located within a Federal Superfund site. The area was designated as a Superfund site because groundwater underneath the area is contaminated. We have not been named, and do not expect to be named, as a party responsible for the clean-up of the groundwater contamination; however, there can be no assurance regarding potential future developments concerning this site. The presence of any environmental conditions at our properties could result in remediation and other costs and liabilities and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have reviewed environmental reports prepared by our consultants and consultants retained by our lenders at various times, which disclose certain conditions on our properties and the use of hazardous substances in operation and maintenance activities that could pose a risk of environmental contamination or impose liability on us. At some facilities these include on-site dry cleaning operations, petroleum storage in underground storage tanks, past tank removals and the known or suspected presence of asbestos, mold or thorium. The costs to clean up a contaminated property to defend against a claim or to comply with environmental laws could be material and could adversely affect the funds available for distributions to our stockholders. Future laws or regulations may impose material environmental liabilities on us, the current environmental condition of our hotel properties may be affected by the condition of the properties in the vicinity of our hotel properties (such as the presence of leaking underground storage tanks) or by third parties unrelated to us and currently unknown environmental liabilities related to our hotel properties may be identified. If we are not in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, we may face significant costs to modify our properties and/or be subject to fines. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), all public accommodations must meet various federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with the ADA’s requirements could require removal of access barriers, and non-compliance could result in the U.S. government imposing fines or in private litigants winning damages. If we are required to make substantial modifications to our hotels, whether to comply with the ADA or other changes in governmental rules and regulations, our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Provisions of our organizational documents may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of our company and may depress our stock price. In order for us to maintain our status as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of outstanding shares of our stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of each taxable year. To make sure that we will not fail to qualify as a REIT under this test, subject to some exceptions, our charter prohibits any individual from owning beneficially or constructively more than 9.8% of the value of outstanding shares of our stock or more than 9.8% of the value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our capital stock in excess of the ownership limit without the consent of our board of directors will be void, and could result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust. This ownership limitation may prevent an acquisition of control of our company by a third party without our board of directors’ grant of an exemption from the ownership limitation, even if our stockholders believe the change of control is in their interest. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to cause us to issue up to 150,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 150,000,000 shares of preferred stock, to amend our charter without stockholder approval to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of any class or series of our stock that we have authority to issue, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Issuances of additional shares of stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, including transactions at a premium over the market price of our stock, even if stockholders believe that a change of control is in their interest. Our charter permits the removal of a director only upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast, generally in the election of directors, and provides that vacancies may only be filled by a majority of the remaining directors. Our bylaws require advance notice of a stockholder’s intention to nominate directors or present business for consideration by stockholders at an annual meeting of our stockholders. These provisions may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or change in control that involves a premium price for our common stock or that for other reasons may be desired by our stockholders. Provisions of Maryland law and our shareholder rights plan may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of our company. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (MGCL), may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price of such shares, including: • “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes special super majority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; • “control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares; and • “unsolicited takeover” provisions of Maryland law permit our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to implement a classified board as well as impose other restrictions on the ability of a third party to acquire control. 21 Table of Contents We have opted out of the control share provisions of the MGCL pursuant to a provision in our bylaws. However, we may, by amendment to our bylaws, become subject to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. On November 24, 2009, we also extended a shareholder rights plan, commonly known as a poison pill anti-takeover device, through November 30, 2012 to deter hostile or coercive attempts to acquire us. Under the plan, if any person or group acquires more than 20% of our common stock without approval of the board of directors under specified circumstances, our other stockholders have the right to purchase shares of our common stock, or shares of the acquiring company, at a substantial discount to the public market price. This plan makes an acquisition not approved by our board of directors much more costly to a potential acquirer, which may deter a potential acquisition. You have limited control as a stockholder regarding any changes we make to our policies. Our board of directors determines our major policies, including our investment objectives, financing, growth and distributions. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies without a vote of our stockholders. This means that our stockholders will have limited control over changes in our policies. Tax Risks If we fail to maintain our status as a REIT, our distributions will not be deductible by us, and our income will be subject to U.S. federal taxation, reducing our earnings available for distribution. We currently qualify as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Tax Code). The requirements for this qualification, however, are complex and require annual distributions to our stockholders tied to our taxable income (irrespective of available cash from operations), quarterly asset tests and diversity of stock ownership rules. If we fail to meet these requirements in the future, our distributions to our stockholders will not be deductible by us and we will have to pay a corporate U.S. federal level tax on our income. This would substantially reduce our cash available to pay distributions to our stockholders. In addition, such a tax liability might cause us to borrow funds, liquidate some of our investments or take other steps, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Moreover, if our REIT status is terminated because of our failure to meet a technical REIT requirement or if we voluntarily revoke our election, we would generally be disqualified from electing treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which REIT status is lost. Even if we maintain our status as a REIT, we may become subject to U.S. federal, state, local or foreign taxes on our income or property reducing our earnings available for distribution. Even if we maintain our status as a REIT, we may become subject to U.S. federal income taxes and related state taxes. For example, if we have net income from a “prohibited transaction”, that income will be subject to a 100% tax. A “prohibited transaction” is, in general, the sale or other disposition of inventory or property, other than foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We may also decide to retain income we earn from the sale or other disposition of our property and pay U.S. federal income tax directly on that income. In that event, our stockholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. However, stockholders that are tax-exempt, such as charities or qualified pension plans, would have no benefit from their deemed payment of that tax liability. In addition, the REIT rules impose various taxes and penalties on transactions with taxable REIT subsidiaries that are determined not to be priced at an arm’s length, and on a REIT that has to avail itself of certain cure provisions in the Tax Code for the failure to meet all of the REIT qualification requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to satisfy the REIT requirements, or that it will be in our best interests to continue to do so. 22 Table of Contents We may also be subject to state and local taxes on our income or property, either directly or at the level of our operating partnerships or at the level of the other companies through which we indirectly own our assets. Foreign countries impose taxes on our hotels and our operations within their jurisdictions. We may not fully benefit from a foreign tax credit against our U.S. federal income tax liability for the foreign taxes we pay. As a result, our foreign taxes may reduce our income and available cash flow from our foreign hotels, which, in turn, could reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Certain of our entities, including our foreign entities, are subject to corporate income taxes. Consequently, these entities are always subject to potential audit. There can be no assurance that certain tax positions the entities have taken will not be challenged by tax authorities and if the challenge is successful, could result in increased tax expense, which could be material. If the leases of our hotels to our taxable REIT subsidiaries (Affiliate Leases) are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, we would fail to maintain our status as a REIT. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy two gross income tests, under which specified percentages of our gross income must be certain types of passive income, such as rent. The rent paid pursuant to our Affiliate Leases will only qualify for purposes of the gross income tests if such Affiliate Leases are respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes and are not treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. If our Affiliate Leases are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries (TRSs) are subject to special rules that may result in increased taxes. The REIT has to pay a 100% penalty tax on certain payments that it receives if the economic arrangements between the REIT and the TRS are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. The Internal Revenue Service may successfully assert that the economic arrangements of any of our inter-company transactions, including our Affiliate Leases, are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. We may be required to pay a penalty tax upon the sale of a hotel. The U.S. federal income tax provisions applicable to REITs provide that any gain realized by a REIT on the sale of property held as inventory or other property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a “prohibited transaction” that is subject to a 100% penalty tax. Under current laws, unless a sale of real property qualifies for a safe harbor, the question of whether the sale of a hotel (or other property) constitutes the sale of property held primarily for sale to customers is generally a question of the facts and circumstances regarding a particular transaction. We may make sales that do not satisfy the requirements of the safe harbors or the Internal Revenue Service may successfully assert that one or more of our sales are prohibited transactions; consequently, we may be required to pay a penalty tax. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates applicable to certain dividends. The maximum federal tax rate for certain dividends payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 15% (through 2010). Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for this reduced rate. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular qualified corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less competitive than investments in stock of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the comparative value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. 23 Table of Contents We may pay required dividends in the form of common stock. We are required to distribute 90% of our annual REIT taxable income in order to maintain our REIT status. Under recent guidelines published by the Internal Revenue Service, we may pay a significant portion of required dividends for 2010 and 2011 in the form of additional shares of common stock equal in value up to 90% of the required dividend to our common shareholders. The amount of the dividend would be taxable to shareholders (to the extent the dividend is from earnings and profits), including the value of our stock received, not just the portion of the dividend paid in cash. We expect that as we undertake efforts to conserve cash and enhance our liquidity, future required dividends on our common stock, if any, may be paid in common stock to the fullest extent permitted. There can be no assurance as to when we will cease our efforts to conserve cash and enhance liquidity to an extent we believe positions us to resume the payment of dividends completely or substantially in cash. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 