ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the risk factors set forth below may have a significant impact on the business, financial condition, or results of operations of IDACORP and Idaho Power and could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in any forward-looking statements. If the Idaho Public Utilities Commission, the Oregon Public Utility Commission, or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission grant less rate recovery in regulatory proceedings than Idaho Power needs to cover existing and future costs and earn a rate of return, earnings and cash flows may be reduced. The prices that the Idaho Public Utilities Commission and Oregon Public Utility Commission authorize Idaho Power to charge for its retail services, and the tariff rate that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission permits Idaho Power to charge for transmission, are generally the most significant factors influencing IDACORP’s and Idaho Power’s financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. The Idaho Public Utilities Commission and Oregon Public Utility Commission have the authority to disallow recovery of any costs that they consider unreasonable or imprudently incurred. Also, the rates allowed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for transmission service may be insufficient for recovery of costs incurred. While the Idaho Public Utilities Commission and Oregon Public Utility Commission have established an authorized rate of return for Idaho Power, the regulatory process does not provide assurance that Idaho Power will be able to achieve the authorized rate of return. Further, while the Idaho Public Utilities Commission and Oregon Public Utility Commission are required to establish rates that are fair, just, and reasonable, they have considerable discretion in applying this standard. The ratemaking process typically involves multiple parties, including governmental bodies, consumer advocacy groups, and customers. While each party has differing concerns, they often have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. Idaho Power cannot predict the outcome of ratemaking proceedings, including the extent to which costs, including the costs of significant capital projects, will be recovered or what rates of return will be authorized. The failure of Idaho Power to recover those costs, or recover them in a timely manner, may decrease IDACORP's and Idaho Power's earnings and adversely impact cash flows. For additional information relating to Idaho Power's regulatory framework, see Note 3 - "Regulatory Matters" to the consolidated financial statements included in this report and "Regulatory Matters" in Part II, Item 7 - "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in this report. Idaho Power's cost recovery deferral mechanisms may not function as intended, which may adversely affect cash flows and liquidity. Idaho Power has power cost adjustment mechanisms that provide for periodic adjustments to the rates charged to its Idaho and Oregon retail customers. The power cost adjustment tracks Idaho Power’s actual net power supply costs (primarily fuel and purchased power less off-system sales) and compares these amounts to net power supply costs currently being recovered in retail rates. A majority, but not all, of the variance between these two amounts is deferred for future recovery from, or refund to, customers. Accordingly, the power cost adjustment mechanisms only partially offset the potentially adverse financial impacts of forced generating plant outages, severe weather, reduced hydroelectric generation, and volatile wholesale energy prices. Because of the power cost adjustment mechanisms, the primary financial impact of power supply cost variations is on the timing of cash flows. When costs rise above the level recovered in retail base rates it adversely affects Idaho Power’s operating cash flow and liquidity until those costs are recovered from customers. Idaho Power also has a fixed cost adjustment, which began as a pilot program for Idaho Power’s Idaho residential and small general service customers, running from 2007 through 2011. The fixed cost adjustment is designed to remove Idaho Power’s disincentive to invest in energy efficiency programs by separating (or decoupling) the recovery of fixed costs from the variable kilowatt-hour charge, and linking it instead to a set amount per customer. In October 2011, Idaho Power filed an application with the Idaho Public Utilities Commission requesting that the fixed cost adjustment pilot program become permanent. As of the date of this report, the Idaho Public Utilities Commission has not issued a determination. If the fixed cost adjustment is not approved as permanent, or if the Idaho Public Utilities Commission modifies the fixed cost adjustment in some manner, Idaho Power may incur fixed costs that may not be recoverable in rates in times of declining usage per residential and small general service customer, or may recover more than the fixed costs incurred in times of increasing usage per residential and small general service customer. This over- or under-collection of fixed costs would likely continue until Idaho Power's next Idaho general rate case when the recovery of fixed costs through base rates can be realigned, which could adversely affect Idaho Power's cash flows and liquidity.For additional information relating to Idaho Power's regulatory framework and cost recovery mechanisms, see Note 3 - "Regulatory Matters" to the consolidated financial statements included in this report and "Regulatory Matters" in Part II, Item 7 - "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in this report. 18Reduced hydroelectric generation can reduce revenues and increase costs, and reduce earnings and cash flows. Idaho Power derives a significant portion of its power supply from its hydroelectric facilities. Because of Idaho Power’s heavy reliance on hydroelectric generation, the availability of water can significantly affect its operations. When hydroelectric generation is reduced, Idaho Power must increase its use of generally more expensive thermal generating resources and purchased power; therefore, opportunities for off-system sales are reduced, which reduces revenues. The further integration of wind and other intermittent power sources into Idaho Power's system may also displace lower cost hydroelectric resources. Integration of intermittent power sources may also increase costs at thermal plants due to wear and tear associated with frequent start-up and shut-down of those facilities to balance loads. While Idaho Power expects to recover, as a result of its power cost adjustment mechanisms, the majority of its net power supply costs above current rates (including the power cost adjustment forecast), recovery of the excess amounts may not occur until the subsequent power cost adjustment year, impacting cash flows and liquidity. Declines in stream flows and over-appropriation of water in Idaho may reduce hydroelectric generation and revenues and increase costs, and reduce earnings and cash flows. The combination of declining Snake River base flows, over-appropriation of water, and periods of drought have led to water rights disputes and proceedings among surface water and ground water irrigators and the State of Idaho. Recharging the Eastern Snake Plain aquifer by diverting surface water to porous locations and permitting it to sink into the aquifer is one proposed solution to the over-appropriation dispute. Diversions from the Snake River for aquifer recharge or the loss of water rights may further reduce Snake River flows available for hydroelectric generation. Idaho Power’s January 2010 settlement agreement with the State of Idaho resolves litigation regarding certain Idaho Power water rights on the Snake River and provides for ongoing Snake River water issues to be addressed in a comprehensive aquifer management plan process. However, there is no assurance that this process will lead to increased Snake River stream flows for Idaho Power’s hydroelectric projects. The comprehensive aquifer management plan process and the resolution of pending proceedings relating to the Snake River may affect Snake River flows available for hydroelectric generation and thereby reduce Idaho Power’s revenues and increase costs, and may reduce earnings and cash flows. Idaho Power’s reliance on coal and natural gas to fuel its power generation facilities exposes it to risk of increased costs and reduced earnings. In addition to hydroelectric generation, Idaho Power relies on coal and natural gas to fuel its generation facilities. As part of its normal business operations, Idaho Power purchases power and natural gas in the open market or under short-term, long-term, or variable-priced contracts. Market prices for coal and natural gas are influenced by factors impacting supply and demand, such as weather conditions, fuel transmission or transportation availability, economic conditions, and changes in technology. Increases in demand for coal or natural gas may result in market price increases, short-term price volatility, and supply availability issues. Any disruption in Idaho Power’s fuel supply may require the company to find alternative fuel sources at higher costs, to produce power from higher cost generation facilities, or to purchase power from other sources at higher costs. Idaho Power may not be able to fully recover these increased costs through ratemaking, which may reduce earnings. Further, Idaho Power's power cost adjustment mechanisms contain a cost-sharing feature that does not in all circumstances provide for full recovery of incurred costs in customer rates. Idaho Power’s power generating facilities are subject to numerous operational risks unique to it and its industry. Operating risks associated with Idaho Power's generation facilities include equipment failures, volatility in fuel and transportation pricing, interruptions in fuel supplies, increased regulatory compliance costs, labor disputes, workforce safety matters, the loss of cost-effective disposal options for solid waste, operator error, and the occurrence of catastrophic events at the facilities. Diminished availability or performance of Idaho Power's transmission and distribution facilities could result in reduced customer satisfaction and regulatory inquiries and fines. Operation of Idaho Power's owned and co-owned generating stations below expected capacity levels, or unplanned outages at these stations, could cause reduced energy output and lower efficiency levels and result in lost revenues and increased expenses. These operational risks may result in plant outages, as well as increased operation and maintenance expenses, power generation costs, and power purchase costs, which could have an adverse impact on earnings and cash flows. Load changes in Idaho Power’s service territory expose Idaho Power to greater market and operational risk and could increase costs and reduce earnings and cash flows. While Idaho Power’s customer growth rate has slowed in recent years, increases in both the number of customers and the demand for energy have resulted and may continue to result in increased reliance on purchased power to meet peak system demand. While Idaho Power is exploring targeted opportunities for managed load growth, load growth can create planning and operating difficulties for Idaho Power that can negatively impact its ability to reliably serve customers. Through current regulatory mechanisms, Idaho Power can expect to recover the majority of the net power supply costs above the amounts included in its rates, though recovery of the excess amounts does not occur until the subsequent power cost adjustment year, and the remaining amount is absorbed by Idaho Power, which could increase costs and reduce earnings and cash flows. Load growth can also result in the need for additional investments in Idaho Power’s infrastructure to serve the new load. For instance, to meet customer demand Idaho Power is currently constructing its Langley 19Gulch natural gas-fired generating plant, and has in development a number of transmission projects. If Idaho Power is unable to secure timely rate relief from the Idaho Public Utilities Commission, the Oregon Public Utility Commission, or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to recover the costs of these additional investments, the resulting disconnect between the time investments are made and costs are recovered would have a negative effect on earnings and cash flows. Further, while Idaho Power has experienced a general trend of load growth in its service territory in recent years, increased emphasis on energy efficiency and weak economic conditions could result in a decline in loads, which may decrease Idaho Power's revenues from energy sales. Also, Idaho Power's regulatory mechanisms, including its load change adjustment rate included in its power cost adjustment, may not result in Idaho Power recovering all of its costs associated with load decreases, which would have a negative impact on earnings and cash flows. Federally mandated purchases of power from PURPA power purchase projects, and integration of power generated from those projects into Idaho Power's system, may increase costs and decrease system reliability, and adversely affect cash flows, financial condition, and earnings. An abundance of intermittent, non-dispatchable wind power generation at times when Idaho Power has available lower-cost resources to meet load demands has an impact on the operation of Idaho Power's hydroelectric generation plants, system reliability, power supply costs, and the wholesale power markets in the Pacific Northwest. Wind power generated from PURPA projects, which Idaho Power is generally obligated to purchase regardless of the then-current load demand or wholesale energy market prices, increases the likelihood and frequency that Idaho Power will be required to reduce output from its lower-cost hydroelectric and fossil fuel-fired generation resources, even when weather conditions have resulted in favorable hydroelectric generation conditions or fuel prices are low. Wind generation in the Pacific Northwest during periods when abundant hydroelectric generation is also available reduces wholesale market prices. This may result in Idaho Power's sale of excess wind power at a significant discount to the price Idaho Power paid for the wind power under PURPA wind power purchase contracts. It may also result in the sale of excess lower-cost hydroelectric or fuel-based power at depressed wholesale market prices. When forecasted wind or other intermittent resources do not materialize, Idaho Power must obtain a substitute source of power to meet load demand, and often must purchase power in the wholesale power markets to balance loads. Further, balancing load and generation from Idaho Power's power generation portfolio is challenging, and Idaho Power expects that its costs will increase as a result of its efforts to integrate intermittent, non-dispatchable power from a large number of PURPA power projects. Idaho Power anticipates that those costs will escalate as the volume of wind and other intermittent power on Idaho Power's system increases, which may adversely affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's cash flows, financial condition, and earnings. Weather and climate change could affect customer demand and hydroelectric generation and disrupt transmission and distribution systems, reducing earnings and cash flows. Warmer than normal winters, cooler than normal summers, and increased rainfall during the irrigation seasons reduce retail revenues from power sales and may impact the amount and timing of hydroelectric generation. Changes in the amount and timing of snowpack and stream flows may also adversely affect hydroelectric generation. Extreme weather events and their associated impacts, such as high winds and fires, can disrupt transmission and distribution systems and cause service interruptions and extended outages, increase supply chain costs, potentially interrupt use of generation resources, and limit Idaho Power's ability to meet customer energy demand. Rapid increases in load requirements resulting from unexpected adverse weather changes, particularly if coupled with transmission constraints or system damage, could adversely impact Idaho Power's costs and ability to meet customer energy demand. Conversely, rapid decreases in load requirements due to unexpected weather events could result in Idaho Power's sale of excess energy at depressed wholesale market prices. Disruption in generation, transmission, and distribution systems due to weather-related factors also increases operations and maintenance expenses and reduces earnings and cash flows. Long-term climate change could increase the likelihood and frequency of these adverse weather events. Further, legislative and/or regulatory developments associated with climate change could affect construction plans and operations, including placing restrictions on the construction of new generation resources and the expansion of existing resources, result in closure of generation resources or installation of costly pollution control equipment, or require changes to the operation of generation resources and Idaho Power's power generation portfolio in general. Also, consumer preference for renewable or low greenhouse gas-emitting sources of energy could impact demand from existing sources and require significant investment in new generation and transmission resources. Any of these effects of weather and climate change could decrease revenues, increase operating costs, and reduce IDACORP’s and Idaho Power’s earnings and cash flows.In Idaho Power's service territory, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, often concurrent with a seasonal increase in wholesale power market prices. As a result, Idaho Power's operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, Idaho Power will generally sell less power, and correspondingly have lower net income, when weather conditions in its service areas are milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could diminish IDACORP's and Idaho Power's results of operations and adversely affect its financial condition.20Idaho Power’s risk management policy and programs relating to economically hedging power and gas exposures, financial and interest rate risk, and counterparty creditworthiness may not always perform as intended, and as a result Idaho Power may suffer economic losses. Idaho Power enters into transactions to hedge its positions in coal, natural gas, power, and other commodities. These hedging transactions are impacted by a range of factors, including variations in power demand, fluctuations in market prices, and market prices for alternative commodities. In connection with these hedging transactions, Idaho Power is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe it money will default on their obligations. A similar risk of non-performance by third parties arises where those parties are obligated to purchase energy from, or sell energy to, Idaho Power, or are parties to commodity price risk management arrangements. Idaho Power actively manages the market risk inherent in its energy related activities and counterparty credit positions by establishing and enforcing risk limits and risk management policies. Idaho Power has procedures that monitor compliance with its risk management policies and programs, including verification of transactions, regular portfolio reporting of various risk management metrics, and daily counterparty credit risk analysis. However, actual hydroelectric and thermal generation, power purchase volumes from intermittent sources, transmission availability, and market prices may be significantly different than those originally planned for when Idaho Power enters into its positions in hedging transactions. This creates uncertainty in the appropriate amount of hedging activity to pursue. Forecasts of future loads and available resources to meet those loads are inherently uncertain and may cause Idaho Power to over- or under-hedge actual resource needs, exposing the company to market risk on the over- or under-hedged position. Changes in market prices are also unpredictable and can at times result in Idaho Power’s hedged positions performing less favorably than unhedged positions. In addition, Idaho Power’s counterparty credit policies may not prevent counterparties from failing to perform, forcing the company to replace forward contracts with transactions in the open market, where the price for the particular commodity may at that time be higher. As a result, risk management decisions may adversely affect IDACORP’s and Idaho Power’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Also, as part of IDACORP's and Idaho Power's risk management programs, they may use a variety of non-derivative and derivative financial instruments, such as swaps, futures, and forwards, to manage market risks. They may also use interest rate derivative instruments to hedge against interest rate fluctuations related to debt. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of some of the derivative instruments involves management’s judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of some of the contracts. IDACORP or Idaho Power could also recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform, which could adversely affect IDACORP's or Idaho Power's results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.Idaho Power’s ability to enter into swaps and derivatives and hedge commodity and interest rate risk may be adversely affected by recent federal legislation. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) was signed into law in July 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes regulatory jurisdiction by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission for certain swaps and derivative instruments and the users of those instruments. A number of federal agencies, including the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission, must adopt rules to implement the Dodd-Frank Act. As Idaho Power enters into swap and derivative transactions from time to time in connection with its general business operations, these rules, when implemented, could have a significant impact on Idaho Power and will likely increase the costs Idaho Power incurs in connection with its swap and derivative transactions. Under the rules, Idaho Power may be required to post collateral to meet minimum capital and margin requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires a broad category of swaps to be cleared and traded on registered exchanges or special derivatives exchanges. These clearing requirements would result in a significant change from Idaho Power's current practice of bilateral transactions and negotiated credit terms. The Dodd-Frank Act outlines an elective exemption to the clearing requirements for swaps entered into by end users that are not "major swap participants" or "swap dealers" and that enter into hedges to mitigate their own commercial risk. Although Idaho Power expects that its swaps will qualify under the end user exemption, there can be no assurance they will qualify. Further, even if Idaho Power's swaps were to qualify under the end user exemption, it will not be exempt from all swap-related requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, and counterparties that are swap dealers or major swap participants may seek to pass along the increased cost and margin requirements through higher prices and reductions in unsecured credit limits. The occurrence of these events could have an adverse effect on IDACORP's and Idaho Power's results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Capital expenditures for power generation and delivery infrastructure and replacement of that infrastructure can significantly affect liquidity. Idaho Power’s business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and other infrastructure projects. Long-term increases in both the number of customers and the demand for energy require expansion and reinforcement of transmission and distribution systems, generating facilities, and other infrastructure. For instance, Idaho Power is currently constructing the Langley Gulch power plant and is in the permitting process for two substantial 500-kV transmission line projects. The cost of maintaining existing, aging equipment and infrastructure and 21developing new infrastructure is substantial, and involves risks relating to, among other things, cost overruns, system outages, price increases in commodities (such as steel and copper), and denial by regulatory bodies of recovery through rates of costs incurred. Idaho Power may not be successful in limiting capital expenditures to planned amounts, particularly in the event of escalating costs for materials and labor. If Idaho Power does not receive timely regulatory recovery of costs associated with those expansion and reinforcement activities, Idaho Power will have to rely more heavily on external debt or equity financing for its future capital expenditures. These large capital expenditures may weaken the consolidated financial profile of IDACORP and Idaho Power. Additionally, a significant portion of Idaho Power’s facilities were constructed many years ago, which could affect reliability, increase repair and maintenance expenses, and increase reliance on market purchases of power. The performance of pension and postretirement benefit plan investments and other factors impacting plan costs could adversely affect cash flows and liquidity. Idaho Power provides a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan covering most employees, as well as a defined benefit postretirement benefit plan (consisting of health care and death benefits) that covers eligible retirees. Costs of providing these benefits are based in part on the value of the plans' assets and, therefore, adverse investment performance for these assets could increase Idaho Power’s funding requirements related to the plans. The key actuarial assumptions that affect funding obligations are the expected long-term return on plan assets and the discount rate used in determining future benefit obligations. Idaho Power evaluates the actuarial assumptions on an annual basis, taking into account changes in market conditions, trends, and future expectations. Estimates of future equity and debt market performance, changes in interest rates, and other factors Idaho Power and its actuary firms use to develop the actuarial assumptions are uncertain, and actual results could vary significantly from the estimates. Changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase Idaho Power's funding requirements for the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, may also be subject to changes in legislation. Depending on the timing of contributions to the plans and the availability of recovery of costs through rates, cash contributions to the plans could reduce the cash available for operating activities. For additional information regarding Idaho Power's funding obligations under its benefit plans, see Note 11 - "Benefit Plans" to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. Idaho Power’s business is subject to substantial governmental regulation, including environmental laws and mandatory reliability standards, which could increase costs. Idaho Power is subject to an extensive body of federal and state laws, policies, and regulations, as well as regulatory actions and regulatory audits, including those of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, the Western Electricity Coordinating Council, and the public utility commissions in Idaho, Oregon, and Wyoming. Some of these regulations are changing or subject to interpretation, and failure to comply may result in penalties or other adverse consequences. As an owner and operator of a bulk power transmission system, Idaho Power is subject to mandatory reliability standards issued by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation and enforced by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and are guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with reliability standards subjects Idaho Power to higher operating costs and increased capital expenditures. Further, Idaho Power has received notice of violations from, and self-reported reliability standard compliance issues to, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, and the Western Electricity Coordinating Council, and has several matters pending. Potential monetary and non-monetary penalties for a violation of Federal Energy Regulatory Commission regulations may be substantial, and in some circumstances monetary penalties may be as high as $1 million per day per violation. The imposition of penalties on Idaho Power could have an adverse impact on its and IDACORP’s results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Idaho Power is also subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental statutes, rules, and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, natural resources, and health and safety. Compliance with these environmental statutes, rules, and regulations involves significant capital and operating expenditures and carries with it the risk of penalties and fines. These laws and regulations generally require Idaho Power to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections, and other approvals, and may be enforced by both public officials and private individuals. Idaho Power cannot predict the outcome or effect of any action or litigation that may arise from applicable environmental regulations. In addition, Idaho Power cannot predict with certainty the amount or timing of future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean up costs or mitigation measures. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. Environmental regulations may also require Idaho Power to install pollution control equipment at, or perform environmental remediation on, its or its co-owned facilities, often at a substantial cost.22Emissions of nitrogen and sulfur oxides, mercury, and particulates from fossil fueled generating plants are potentially subject to increased regulations, controls, and mitigation expenses. Certain federal legislators, environmental advocacy groups, and regulatory agencies in the United States have also been focusing considerable attention on CO2 and other emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate change and/or regional air quality compliance. Existing environmental regulations regarding air emissions (such as NOx, SO2, or mercury emissions), water quality, and other toxic pollutants may be revised or new climate change laws or regulations may be adopted or become applicable to Idaho Power. Moreover, there are many legislative and rulemaking initiatives pending at the federal and state level that are aimed at the reduction of fossil fuel plant emissions. Idaho Power cannot predict the outcome of pending or future legislative and rulemaking proposals. Future changes in environmental laws or regulations governing emissions reduction could make certain electric generating units (especially coal-fired units) uneconomical and subject to shut-down, could require the adoption of new methodologies or technologies that significantly increase costs or delay in-service dates, and may raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels as an energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. Modification of existing environmental regulations or adoption of new environmental regulations may result in increased capital expenditures and could increase the cost of operating Idaho Power's generating plants or make them uneconomical to operate and result in reduced earnings and cash flows.Furthermore, Idaho Power may not be able to obtain or maintain all environmental regulatory approvals necessary for operation of its facilities and execution of its long-term strategy, including construction of new transmission and distribution infrastructure. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approval or if Idaho Power fails to obtain, maintain, or comply with any such approval, construction and/or operation of Idaho Power's owned or co-owned generation and/or transmission facilities could be delayed, halted, or subjected to additional costs. Complying with state or federal renewable portfolio standards could increase capital expenditures and operating costs and reduce earnings and cash flows. A number of states have adopted renewable portfolio standards, which require that electricity providers obtain a minimum percentage of their power from renewable energy sources by a specified date. Idaho Power’s operations in Oregon will be required to comply with a ten percent renewable portfolio standard beginning in 2025, and it is possible that other states, including Idaho, could adopt renewable portfolio standards that are applicable to Idaho Power in the future. The cost of purchasing or generating power from renewable energy sources is often greater than fossil fuel and hydroelectric generation sources, and construction of renewable energy facilities involves significant capital expenditures. As a result, new state or federal renewable portfolio standards could increase capital expenditures and operating costs and reduce earnings and cash flows. The listing as threatened or endangered under the Endangered Species Act of fish, wildlife, or plant species that are found in the areas of Idaho Power’s generation facilities or transmission lines may require mitigation, affect the location of a project or the ability to construct a project, and increase capital expenditures and operating costs. Relicensing of the Hells Canyon and Swan Falls hydroelectric projects and construction of the Gateway West and Boardman-to-Hemingway transmission lines requires consultation under the Endangered Species Act to determine the effects of these projects on any listed species within the project areas. The listing of species as threatened or endangered, including the relatively recent listing of slickspot peppergrass as a threatened species, will result in an Endangered Species Act consultation for the Gateway West and Boardman-to-Hemingway transmission lines and future transmission projects. Similarly, the presence of sage grouse in the vicinity of the Gateway West and Boardman-to-Hemingway transmission projects has required more extensive, costly, and time consuming evaluation and engineering. These and other requirements of the Endangered Species Act and similar laws may increase costs and reduce earnings and cash flows. Conditions imposed in connection with hydroelectric license renewals may require large capital expenditures, increase operating costs, reduce hydroelectric generation, and reduce earnings and cash flows. Idaho Power is currently involved in renewing federal licenses for some of its hydroelectric projects, including its largest hydroelectric generation source, the Hells Canyon Complex. Relicensing includes an extensive public review process that involves numerous natural resource issues and environmental conditions. The listing of various species of marine life, wildlife, and plants as threatened or endangered has resulted in significant changes to federally-authorized activities, including those of hydroelectric projects. In particular, fish and other marine life recovery plans may require major operational changes to the region’s hydroelectric projects. In addition, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to hydroelectric facilities, which could further increase required expenditures for marine life recovery and endangered species protection and reduce the amount of hydroelectric generation available to meet Idaho Power’s energy requirements. In 2007, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Staff issued a final environmental impact statement for the Hells Canyon Complex, which the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission will use in part to determine whether, and under what conditions, to issue a new license for the Hells Canyon Complex. Certain portions of the final environmental impact statement involve 23issues that may be influenced by water quality certifications for the project under Section 401 of the Clean Water Act and formal consultations under the Endangered Species Act, which remain unresolved. One significant issue involves water temperature gradients, and certain parties in the Hells Canyon Complex relicensing proceedings have advocated for the installation of water temperature management apparatus which, if required to be installed, would require substantial capital expenditures to construct and maintain. There can be no assurance that recovery through rates would be authorized, particularly given the magnitude of any potential impact on customer rates, which at this time cannot be predicted with certainty. Idaho Power also cannot predict the requirements that might be imposed during the relicensing process, the economic impact of those requirements, or whether a new multi-year license will ultimately be issued. Imposition of onerous conditions in the relicensing process could result in Idaho Power incurring significant capital expenditures, increase operating costs, and reduce hydroelectric generation, which could reduce earnings and cash flows. IDACORP, Idaho Power, and their subsidiaries are subject to costs and other effects of legal and regulatory proceedings, settlements, investigations, and claims. From time to time in the normal course of business, IDACORP, Idaho Power, and their subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory proceedings, lawsuits, and claims that could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, or other relief. These matters are subject to a number of uncertainties, and as a result management is often unable to predict the outcome of a matter. The final resolution of matters in which IDACORP, Idaho Power, or their subsidiaries are involved could require that they incur costs in a range of amounts that could have an adverse effect on their cash flows and results of operations. Similarly, the terms of resolution could require the companies to change their business practices and procedures, which could also have an adverse effect on their cash flows, financial positions, or results of operations.IDACORP, IDACORP Energy, and Idaho Power are involved in a number of proceedings, including proceedings arising from the California energy crisis and the energy shortages, high prices, and blackouts in the western United States during 2000 and 2001, and a refund proceeding affecting sellers of wholesale power in the spot market in the Pacific Northwest. Idaho Power may also be subject to costs and other effects of additional legal claims, actions, and complaints, including those related to the Jim Bridger, Valmy, and Boardman coal-fired plants, in which Idaho Power holds an ownership interest. For instance, in September 2010 the Environmental Protection Agency issued a Notice of Violation to Portland General Electric Company, the majority owner of the Boardman plant, alleging violations of the New Source Performance Standards and operating permit requirements under the Clean Air Act as a result of prior modifications made to the plant. Private parties have also brought tort actions against companies relating to their alleged contribution to climate change, including claims relating to the Jim Bridger and Boardman power plants. If IDACORP, Idaho Power, or their subsidiaries are required to make payments in connection with any legal or regulatory proceeding, settlement, investigation, or claim, earnings and cash flows could be negatively affected. As a holding company, IDACORP does not have its own operating income and must rely on the upstream cash flows from its subsidiaries to pay dividends and make debt payments. IDACORP is a holding company with no significant operations of its own, and its primary assets are shares or other ownership interests of its subsidiaries, primarily Idaho Power. Consequently, IDACORP’s ability to pay dividends and to service its debt is dependent upon dividends and other payments received from its subsidiaries. IDACORP’s subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to IDACORP, whether through dividends, loans, or other payments. The ability of IDACORP’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to IDACORP depends on several factors, including each subsidiaries’ actual and projected earnings and cash flow, capital requirements and general financial condition, regulatory restrictions, covenants contained in credit facilities to which they are parties, and the prior rights of holders of their existing and future first mortgage bonds and other debt or equity securities. Further, the amount and payment of dividends is at the discretion of the board of directors, which reviews the appropriateness of dividends in light of current and long-term financial position and results of operations, capital requirements, rating agency requirements, contractual and regulatory restrictions, legislative and regulatory developments affecting the electric utility industry in general and Idaho Power in particular, competitive conditions, and any other factors the board of directors deems relevant. Any of these factors may result in a reduction or cessation of dividends. See Part II, Item 5 - "Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities" of this report for a description of restrictions on IDACORP's and Idaho Power's payment of dividends. A downgrade in IDACORP’s and Idaho Power’s credit ratings could affect the companies’ ability to access capital, increase their cost of borrowing, and require the companies to post collateral with transaction counterparties. Access to capital markets is important to Idaho Power's ability to operate and to complete its capital projects, including its current and planned generation and transmission projects. Credit rating agencies periodically review the corporate credit ratings and long-term ratings of IDACORP and Idaho Power, and these ratings impact access to, and the cost of, borrowing. IDACORP and Idaho Power also have borrowing arrangements that rely on the ability of the banks to fund loans or support commercial paper, a principal source of short-term financing. Downgrades of IDACORP’s or Idaho Power’s credit ratings, or those affecting 24relationship banks, could limit the companies’ ability to access capital, including the commercial paper markets, require the companies to pay a higher interest rate on their debt, and require the companies to post additional performance assurance collateral with transaction counterparties. Volatility in the financial markets, or denial of regulatory authority to issue debt or equity securities, may negatively affect IDACORP’s and Idaho Power’s ability to access capital and/or increase their cost of borrowing, or result in losses on investments. IDACORP and Idaho Power require liquidity to pay operating expenses and principal of, and interest on, debt and to finance capital expenditures not satisfied by cash flows from operations. Financial markets have in recent years experienced extreme volatility and disruption, generally resulting in a decrease in the availability of liquidity and credit for borrowers. In a volatile credit environment, one or more of the participating banks in IDACORP’s and Idaho Power’s credit facilities may default on their obligations to make loans under, or withdraw from, the credit facilities, or IDACORP’s and Idaho Power’s access to capital may otherwise be inhibited. In addition, at times Idaho Power has a relatively large balance of short-term investments. Volatility in the financial markets may result in a lack of liquidity for short-term investments and declines in value of some investments. The occurrence of any of these events could affect Idaho Power's ability to execute its business plan and adversely affect IDACORP’s and Idaho Power’s earnings, liquidity, and financial condition. Further, Idaho Power is required to obtain regulatory approval in Idaho, Oregon, and Wyoming in order to borrow money or to issue securities and is therefore dependent on the public utility commissions of those states to issue favorable orders in a timely manner to permit them to finance their operations. Notably, without additional approval from those commissions, the aggregate amount of short-term borrowings by Idaho Power at any one time outstanding may not exceed $450 million. National and regional economic conditions, in conjunction with increased electric rates, may cause increased late payments and uncollectible customer accounts, or reduce energy consumption, which would reduce earnings and cash flows. Beginning in 2008, economic conditions in Idaho Power’s service area have been relatively weak. Unemployment rates are high relative to historic unemployment levels and customer growth has been slow relative to prior years. These factors may reduce the amount of energy Idaho Power’s customers consume; result in a loss of customers; increase the likelihood and prevalence of late payments and uncollectible accounts, and reduce the customer growth rate. A resulting decrease in overall customer usage or collections may reduce revenues and earnings. Changes in tax laws and regulations, or differing interpretation or enforcement of applicable laws by the Internal Revenue Service or other taxing jurisdictions, could have a material adverse impact on IDACORP’s or Idaho Power’s financial condition. IDACORP and Idaho Power must make judgments and interpretations about the application of the law when determining the provision for taxes. The companies’ tax obligations include income, real estate, public utility, municipal, sales and use, business and occupation, and employment-related taxes and ongoing issues related to these taxes. These judgments may include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that may be subject to challenge by taxing authorities. For instance, recent income tax method changes had a significant impact on financial results in 2011. The outcome of ongoing and future income tax proceedings could differ materially from the amounts IDACORP and Idaho Power record prior to conclusion of those proceedings, and the difference could reduce IDACORP’s and Idaho Power’s earnings and cash flows. Further, in some instances the treatment from a ratemaking perspective of any tax benefits could be different than IDACORP or Idaho Power anticipate or request from applicable state regulatory commissions. The Idaho Public Utilities Commission or Oregon Public Utility Commission could, for instance, determine that all or a portion of any benefits resulting from tax-related projects be shared with customers in the form of reduced rates or otherwise, which may reduce revenue, earnings, and cash flows. Employee workforce factors could increase costs and reduce earnings. Idaho Power is subject to workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key personnel, availability of qualified personnel, an aging workforce, and impacts of efforts to organize workforce, including the possible unionization of one or more segments of the workforce. Idaho Power’s operations require a skilled workforce to perform specialized, complex utility functions. Idaho Power expects that a significant portion of its skilled workforce will be retiring, at a rate higher than Idaho Power's historical rate, within the next ten years, which places demand on Idaho Power to attract and retain skilled workers. Without a skilled workforce, Idaho Power’s ability to provide quality service to its customers and meet regulatory requirements will be challenged and could affect earnings. Also, the costs associated with attracting and retaining appropriately qualified employees to replace an aging and skilled workforce could reduce earnings and cash flows. Acts or threats of terrorism, cyber attacks, security breaches, and other acts of individuals or groups seeking to disrupt Idaho Power's operations, or the businesses of third parties, could result in reduced revenues and increased costs. Idaho Power's generation and transmission facilities are potential targets for terrorist acts and threats, as well as cyber attacks and other disruptive activities of individuals or groups. Some of Idaho Power's facilities are deemed critical infrastructure, in that incapacity or destruction of the facilities could have a debilitating impact on security, reliability or operability of the bulk 25electric power system, national economic security, national public health or safety, or any combination of those matters. The possibility that infrastructure facilities, such as generation facilities and electric transmission facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or cyber attack (whether originating internally or externally) may affect Idaho Power's operations by limiting the ability to generate, purchase, or transmit power and by delaying the development and construction of new generating and transmission facilities and capital improvements to existing facilities. These events, and governmental actions in response, could result in a material decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to repair and insure Idaho Power's assets, and could further adversely affect Idaho Power's operations by contributing to disruption of supplies and markets for natural gas or coal used to fuel gas-fired or coal-fired power plants. Because generation and transmission are part of an interconnected system, Idaho Power faces the risk of possible loss of business due to a disruption caused by the impact of an event on the interconnected system. The events could also impair IDACORP's and Idaho Power's ability to raise capital by contributing to financial instability and lower economic activity. Further, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased compliance costs.In the normal course of business, Idaho Power collects, processes, and retains sensitive and confidential customer and proprietary information, and operates systems that directly impact the availability of electric power and the transmission of electric power in the electric grid. Idaho Power operates in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. Despite the security measures in place, Idaho Power's facilities and systems, and those of third-party service providers, could be vulnerable to security breaches, data leakage, or other similar events that could interrupt operations, resulting in a shutdown of service and exposing Idaho Power to liability. Those breaches and events may result from acts of Idaho Power employees, contractors, or third parties. If Idaho Power's technology systems were to fail or be breached and Idaho Power were unable to recover the systems and/or data in a timely manner, Idaho Power may be unable to fulfill critical business functions. Also, confidential and proprietary business, employee, or customer information could be compromised, exposing Idaho Power to liability and causing business disruptions, which could have a material adverse effect on Idaho Power's operations and IDACORP's and Idaho Power's financial results. The implementation of security guidelines and measures and maintenance of insurance, to the extent available, addressing such activities could increase costs and impact financial results. In addition, these types of events could require significant management attention and resources, and could adversely affect IDACORP's and Idaho Power's reputation among customers and the public. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None.26