ITEM 1A. Risk Factors As described in “Part I. Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” this report contains forward-looking statements regarding us, our business and our industry. The risk factors described below, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. We depend on strong demand for natural gas, and a prolonged, substantial reduction in this demand would adversely affect the demand for our services and products. Natural gas contract compression operations are significantly dependent upon the demand for natural gas. Demand may be affected by, among other factors, natural gas prices, weather, demand for energy and availability of alternative energy sources. Any prolonged, substantial reduction in the demand for natural gas would, in all likelihood, depress the level of production, exploration and development activity and result in a decline in the demand for our contract compression services and products. Similarly, a decrease in capital spending by our customers could result in reduced demand for our fabrication and aftermarket services businesses. The reduced demand for our services as described above could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our international operations subject us to risks that are difficult to predict. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, we derived 31.6% of our revenues from international operations. We intend to continue to expand our business in our international markets. This may make it more difficult for us to manage our business. Reasons for this include, but are not limited to, the following: · political and economic instability in foreign markets that could include risks of nationalization of energy related assets, changed fiscal regime or reduced business; · foreign governments’ restrictive trade policies; · inconsistent product regulation or sudden policy changes by foreign agencies or governments; · the burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws; · the imposition of duties, taxes or government royalties; · foreign exchange rate risks; · difficulty in collecting international accounts receivable; 13 · potentially longer payment cycles; · increased costs in maintaining international manufacturing and marketing efforts; · the introduction of non-tariff barriers and higher duty rates; · difficulties in enforcement of contractual obligations; · restrictions on repatriation of earnings or expropriation of property; and · the geographic, time zone, language and cultural differences among personnel in different areas of the world. Any of these factors may cause us to experience economic loss or negatively impact our earnings or net assets. We face significant competition that may cause us to lose market share and harm our financial performance. The domestic compression business is highly competitive and there are low barriers to entry for individual projects. In addition, some of our competitors are large national and multinational companies that provide contract compression, aftermarket services and support and fabrication services to third parties, and some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenue and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. If our competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive services or substantially decrease the price at which they offer their services, we may not be able to compete effectively. Some of these competitors may expand or construct newer or more powerful compression systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. In addition, our customers that are significant producers of natural gas may purchase their own compression systems in lieu of using our contract compression services. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We depend on particular suppliers and are vulnerable to product shortages and price increases. As a consequence of having a highly standardized contract compression fleet, some of the components used in our products are obtained from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on these suppliers involves several risks, including price increases, inferior component quality and a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components in a timely manner. The partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have a negative impact on our results of operations and could damage our customer relationships. Further, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these components could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities. Natural gas service operations are subject to inherent risks such as equipment defects, malfunction and failures, and natural disasters that can result in uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids, fires and explosions. These risks could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, death, property damage, pollution and other environmental damages. We have obtained insurance against many of these risks, however, our insurance may be inadequate to cover our liabilities. We have elected to fully self-insure our offshore assets. Further, insurance covering the risks we face or in the amounts we desire may not be available in the future or, if available, the premiums may not be commercially justifiable. If we were to incur substantial liability and such damages were not covered by insurance or were in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. A substantial portion of our cash flow must be used to service our debt obligations, and we are vulnerable to interest rate increases. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $830.2 million in outstanding debt obligations consisting primarily of $171.5 million outstanding under our 7 1/4% senior notes, $186.7 million outstanding under our asset-backed securitization facility (the “ABS facility”) and $472.0 million outstanding under our revolving credit facilities. These debt amounts exclude approximately $28.8 million of standby letters of credit issued on our behalf as of December 31, 2006. 14 As of December 31, 2006, approximately $165.7 million of our outstanding debt was subject to interest at floating rates. Changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, thereby increasing our interest expense and reducing our funds available to make payments of interest and principal on the notes and for capital investment, operations or other purposes. Our credit facilities impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to successfully operate our business. Our credit facilities include certain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: · borrow money; · create liens, other than liens securing our senior secured credit facilities, the ABS facility or in connection with permitted acquisitions; · make investments, other than in any subsidiary or in connection with permitted acquisitions; · declare dividends or make certain distributions; · sell or dispose of property; and · merge into or consolidate with any third party or sell or transfer all or substantially all of our property. As of December 31, 2006, we were also required by our credit facilities to maintain various financial ratios, including a total leverage ratio of less than or equal to 5 to 1, an interest coverage ratio of greater than or equal to 2.5 to 1 and a senior secured leverage ratio of less than or equal to 5 to 1. For descriptions of the required ratios see Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 (“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”) of this report. As of February 23, 2007, we were in compliance with all of these financial covenants. These covenants may restrict our ability to expand or to pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these and other provisions of the credit facilities may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in business conditions or results of operations, adverse regulatory developments or other events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our debt, which could cause those obligations to become due and payable. If any of our indebtedness were to be accelerated, we may not be able to repay or refinance it. Our new enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system implementation may encounter problems that would negatively impact our business. We contracted with a third party vendor to assist us with the design and implementation of a new ERP system, which will support substantially all of our operating and financial functions, including our business segment operations, fleet management, billing, estimating, customer management, vendor management, accounting and financial reporting systems. We plan to complete the implementation of this new ERP system in 2007 for our North America operations. A significant implementation problem, if encountered, could negatively impact our business by disrupting our operations. There are inherent limitations in our ability to predict and plan for these risks and estimate the magnitude of their impact. Consequently, it is possible that the occurrence of a significant implementation problem could be material. We are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations in the foreign markets in which we operate. A decrease in the value of any of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could reduce our profits from foreign operations and the value of our foreign net assets. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. The majority of the Company’s foreign operations have designated the local currency as their functional currency and, as such, gains and losses resulting from financial statement translation of foreign operations are included as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders’ equity. Gains and losses from balances that are receivable or payable in currency other than functional currency are included in the consolidated statements of operations. As a result, the U.S. dollar value of our foreign operations has varied, and will continue to vary, with exchange rate fluctuations. In this respect, historically we have been primarily exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Brazilian real, Mexican peso, Australian dollar and Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar. 15 A fluctuation in the value of any of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could reduce our profits from foreign operations and the value of the net assets of our foreign operations when reported in U.S. dollars in our financial statements. This could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations as reported in U.S. dollars. In addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which the earnings are generated may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. For purposes of accounting, the assets and liabilities of our foreign operations, where the local currency is the functional currency, are translated using period-end exchange rates, and the revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are translated using average exchange rates during each period. We attempt to match costs and revenues in local currencies, however, we anticipate that there may be instances in which costs and revenues will not be matched with respect to currency denomination. As a result, to the extent we continue our expansion on a global basis, we expect that increasing portions of our revenues, costs, assets and liabilities will be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency valuations. We may experience economic loss and a negative impact on earnings or net assets solely as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Further, the markets in which we operate could restrict the removal or conversion of the local or foreign currency, resulting in our inability to hedge against these risks. Our ability to manage our business effectively will be weakened if we lose key personnel or are unable to hire, train and retain a qualified labor force. We depend on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and senior management. The departure of any of our key personnel could have a significant negative effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and on our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. We do not maintain key man life insurance coverage with respect to our executive officers or key management personnel. We are not aware of the upcoming retirement of any of our executive officers or senior management personnel, other than upon completion of the anticipated merger with Hanover. Additionally, we believe our ability to hire, train and retain qualified personnel will continue to be more challenging and important as we continue to grow and if energy industry market conditions continue to be positive. When general industry conditions are good, the supply of experienced operational, fabrication and field personnel, in particular, decreases as other energy, oil field services and manufacturing companies’ needs for the same personnel increases. Our ability to continue our growth and perhaps even to continue our current level of service to our current customers will be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully hire, train and retain these important personnel. We are subject to substantial environmental regulation, and changes in these regulations could increase our costs or liabilities. We are subject to stringent and complex foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulatory standards, including laws and regulations regarding the discharge of materials into the environment, emission controls and other environmental protection and occupational health and safety concerns. Environmental laws and regulations may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for environmental contamination, rendering us liable for remediation costs, natural resource damages and other damages as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior owners or operators or other third parties. In addition, where contamination may be present, it is not uncommon for neighboring land owners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury, property damage and recovery of response costs. Remediation costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations, and costs associated with new information, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, failure to comply with these environmental laws and regulations may result in the imposition of administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties. We routinely deal with natural gas, oil and other petroleum products. As a result of our fabrication and aftermarket services operations, we generate, manage and dispose of or recycle hazardous wastes and substances such as solvents, thinner, waste paint, waste oil, washdown wastes and sandblast material. It is our policy to use generally accepted operating and disposal practices in accordance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, however, hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances or wastes may have been disposed or released on, under or from properties owned, leased or operated by us or on or under other locations where such substances or wastes have been taken for disposal. These properties may be subject to investigatory, remediation and monitoring requirements under foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. 16 The modification or interpretation of existing environmental laws or regulations, the more vigorous enforcement of existing environmental laws or regulations, or the adoption of new environmental laws or regulations may also negatively impact oil and natural gas exploration and production companies, which in turn could have a negative impact on us and other similarly situated service companies. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would result in the purchase of your shares at a premium to the market price or would otherwise be beneficial to you. There are provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would result in the purchase of your shares at a premium to the market price or would otherwise be beneficial to you. For example, our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation, such as a staggered board of directors and limitations on the removal of directors, stockholder actions by written consent, and on stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. Delaware corporation law may also discourage takeover attempts that have not been approved by our board of directors. Our proposed merger with Hanover is subject to the receipt of consents and approvals from various government entities that may impose conditions on, jeopardize or delay completion of the merger or reduce the anticipated benefits of the merger. In February 2007, we announced that we had entered into an agreement to merge with Hanover. Completion of the merger is conditioned upon, among other things, the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, which we refer to as the HSR Act, and the expiration or termination of any mandatory waiting period under applicable non-U.S. antitrust laws, where the failure to observe that waiting period would be reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the combined company after the merger. There is no assurance that these required consents, orders, approvals and clearances will be obtained. Even if they are obtained, they may not be obtained before each company’s stockholders vote on the merger. Moreover, if they are obtained, they may impose conditions on, or require divestitures relating to, our divisions, operations or assets or those of Hanover. The merger agreement requires Hanover and us to satisfy any conditions or divestiture requirements imposed upon them unless the conditions or divestitures would be reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the combined company after the merger. A substantial delay in obtaining any required approvals or the imposition of any unfavorable conditions or divestitures in connection with the receipt of any required approvals may jeopardize or delay completion of the merger or reduce the anticipated benefits of the merger. While the merger is pending, we will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could adversely affect our business. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees, customers and suppliers may have an adverse effect on us and, consequently, on the combined company. We intend to take steps to reduce any adverse effects, however, these uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is consummated and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers and others who deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships with us. Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the merger because employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. If, despite our retention efforts, key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company, the combined company’s business could be seriously harmed. In addition, the merger agreement restricts us, without Hanover’s consent and subject to certain exceptions, from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the merger occurs or the merger agreement terminates. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business that may arise prior to completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement. 17 Failure to complete the merger could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results because of, among other things, the disruption that would occur as a result of uncertainties relating to a failure to complete the merger. We and Hanover have agreed to use our reasonable best efforts to obtain stockholder approval of the merger, however, our stockholders and Hanover’s stockholders may not approve the merger. In addition, we and Hanover may not receive the required consents, orders, approvals and clearances to complete the merger or satisfy the other conditions to the completion of the merger. If the merger is not completed for any reason, we could be subject to several risks, including the following: · being required to pay Hanover a termination fee of up to $70 million in certain circumstances, as described further in the next risk factor; and · having had the focus of our management directed toward the merger and integration planning instead of on our core business and other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us. In addition, we would not realize any of the expected benefits of having completed the merger. We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial financial advisory, legal and other expenses associated with the merger even if it does not close. If the merger is not completed, the price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of our stock reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed and that the related benefits and synergies will be realized, or as a result of the market’s perceptions that the merger was not consummated due to an adverse change in our business. In addition, our business may be harmed, and the price of our common stock may decline as a result, to the extent that customers, suppliers and others believe that we cannot compete in the marketplace as effectively without the merger or otherwise remain uncertain about our future prospects in the absence of the merger. Similarly, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the resulting company and choose to pursue other opportunities that could adversely affect us if the merger is not completed. During the pendency of the merger agreement, we may not be able to attract and retain key management, marketing and technical personnel due to this uncertainty, which could harm our businesses and results. The realization of any of these risks may materially adversely affect our business, financial results, financial condition and stock price. The merger agreement limits our ability to pursue an alternative acquisition proposal and may require us to pay a termination fee of up to $70 million if we do. The merger agreement prohibits the parties from soliciting, initiating or encouraging alternative merger or acquisition proposals with any third party. The merger agreement also provides for the payment by us or Hanover of a termination fee of up to $70 million if the merger agreement is terminated in certain circumstances in connection with a competing acquisition proposal or the withdrawal by the board of directors of one of the companies of its recommendation that the stockholders of that company vote for the merger. These provisions limit our ability to pursue offers from third parties that could result in greater value to our stockholders. The obligation to make the termination fee payment also may discourage a third party from pursuing an alternative acquisition proposal. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 