D. Risk factors Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) to include a management’s report that provides an assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Further, Section 404 requires that the Company’s external auditor report on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting beginning with our annual report on Form 20-F for our fiscal year ending on or after December 15, 2009. Although we engaged an external consultant to review our internal control structure and procedures over financial reporting to comply with the requirements of Section 404, there is no assurance that our external auditors will ultimately be satisfied with the effectiveness of internal control over our financial reporting. This could result in a decline of our stock value due to the loss of investors’ confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, and the Company may be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require the commitment of additional financial and management resources. Inherent limitation on Internal Control. Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives because of its inherent limitations. Internal control over financial reporting is a process that involves human diligence and compliance and is subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Internal control over financial reporting also can be circumvented by collusion or improper management decision. Because of such limitations, there is a risk that material misstatements may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by internal control over financial reporting. However, these inherent limitations are known features of the financial reporting process. Therefore, it may be possible to design into the process safeguards to reduce, though not eliminate, this risk. Inherent uncertainty in preparation of financial statements. The consolidated and condensed consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the SEC are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to changes in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Disruptions in the financial and credit markets. Disruptions in the financial and credit markets may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit and the spending of our customers as well as our ability to raise additional capital, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. As noted in the discussions of other risks that we face, demand for our products and services depends in large part upon the expenditures by many of our customers. Decreased capital and customer spending, as well as our potentially limited access to additional funds, could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and our business, results of operations and financial condition. Disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy or restructuring of certain financial institutions, may adversely impact the availability of credit already arranged and the 3 Table of Contents availability and cost of credit in the future. Our failure to obtain additional funds, if need be, to meet payment obligations and working capital requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the disruptions in the financial markets may also have an adverse impact on regional economics or the world economy, which could negatively impact the capital and maintenance expenditures of our customers. There can be no assurance that government responses to the disruptions of the financial markets will restore confidence, stabilize markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the effects of H1N1 flu (swine flu), avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other epidemics or outbreaks. In April 2009, an outbreak of H1N1 flu (swine flu) first occurred in Mexico and quickly spread to other countries, including the U.S. and China. In the last decade, China has suffered health epidemics related to the outbreak of avian influenza and severe acute respiratory syndrome. Any prolonged occurrence or recurrence H1N1 flu (swine flu), avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other adverse public health developments in China or the U.S. may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. These health epidemics could result in severe travel restrictions and closures that would restrict our ability to ship our products. Potential outbreaks in China could also lead to temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities, our suppliers’ facilities and/or our end-user customers’ facilities, leading to reduced production, delayed or cancelled orders, and decrease in demand for our products. Any future health epidemic or outbreaks that could disrupt our operations and/or restrict our shipping abilities may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Unsecured cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. We have cash and short-term cash equivalent instruments which are invested with third party financial institutions that may not be insured or exceed the insurance limits of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) or other government insurance agencies. While we make an effort to monitor the cash balances in our operating accounts and adjust the cash balances as appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or become subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date, we have experienced no loss or lack of access to cash in our operating accounts. We also invest excess cash in immediately available and short-term interest bearing cash equivalent instruments. If a commercial bank or financial institution in which we have our funds deposited should become insolvent or be taken over by the FDIC or other governmental insurance agencies, we could have significant unrecoverable cash deposits. A loss in cash deposits would have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Foreign sales, operations and assets. Substantially all of our products are currently manufactured in China and over 95% of the net book value of our total long-lived assets is located there. We sell products to companies based principally in North America, China and Europe. Consequently, our international operations and sales may be subject to the following risks, among others: • political and economic risks, including political instability, currency controls and exchange rate fluctuations; • changes in import/export regulations; • changes in the rate of inflation; • changes in tariff and freight rates; and • changes in tax rates. In particular, changes in tariff structures or other trade policies could adversely affect our customers or suppliers or decrease our competitors’ costs of production. Renminbi revaluation. We sell a significant portion of our products to North American customers FOB China. These sales are generally denominated in U.S. dollars. The majority of our expenses, including salaries and wages and other production and administrative costs are denominated in Hong Kong dollars and Chinese Renminbi. Although certain raw materials, material components and capital equipment are purchased using a variety of currencies, including the U.S. dollar, Chinese Renminbi, Japanese yen and EURO, the majority are purchased with Hong Kong dollars. The Hong Kong dollar is currently pegged to the U.S. dollar at a rate of approximately HK$7.8 to US$1.0. Until 2006, in the aggregate, we were not significantly affected by exchange rate fluctuations and therefore have not hedged our positions. From 1998 until 2005, the People’s Bank of China (“PBOC”) kept the Renminbi’s exchange rate against the U.S. dollar steady at approximately 8.3 Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. In March 2005, China’s Premier introduced a number of conditions, including but not limited to, Chinese financial and economic stability that must be achieved before China could implement greater exchange flexibility. At that time the Premier indicated that the Renminbi was likely to be revalued, but gave no timetable for such revaluation. On July 21, 2005, the PBOC decided to abandon its policy of pegging the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar and instead decided to link the Renminbi to a basket of currencies. The PBOC also strengthened the exchange rate of the Renminbi to 8.11 to the U.S. dollar from 8.28 as the Chinese government took its first step towards a floating currency. During our fiscal 2009 the Renminbi was allowed to appreciate to between 6.8286 and 7.0007 to the U.S. dollar and subsequently it has appreciated to 6.817 as of September 25, 2009. This appreciation has made Chinese products more expensive for U.S. companies. To the extent our operations are based in China, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk with respect to the Renminbi, which could adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Credit terms in the PRC. Some of the Company’s major customers in the PRC are granted credit terms of up to 180 days. Most of the other customers are granted 60 days from the end of the month of shipment. The Company obtains credit insurance when available but a default by any of its major customers in their obligation to pay us would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Government regulation. Our operations and assets in China are subject to significant political, economic, legal and other uncertainties. Any of the following could result from policy changes by the Chinese government and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition: • legal or regulatory changes, or changes in interpretation of current laws or regulations; • new labor laws restricting flexibility in employment and added social security costs; 4 Table of Contents • confiscatory or increased taxation; • restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply; • import duties; • currency devaluations; or • expropriation of private enterprise. Under its current leadership, the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies, including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. In 2001, China was admitted to the World Trade Organization (“WTO”), and is now entitled to the full trading rights afforded a WTO member country. There can be no assurance, however, that China will continue to pursue and implement favorable economic reform policies, that such policies will be successful if pursued or that such policies will not be significantly altered from time to time without prior notice. The municipal authorities in each township in China have a certain amount of discretion to impose or waive a large number of fees and taxes including value-added tax, stamp duty, licenses and permits. In the Company’s manufacturing location, it is subject to the laws and regulations of the township of Dongguan, Guangdong Province and the PRC. To the extent the government authorities decide to exercise their discretion to increase or impose new fees, our operations could be materially affected. Changes in the PRC’s labor law. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted new labor legislation called the Labour Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. It formalizes workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions. Considered one of the strictest labor laws in the world, among other things, this new law requires an employer to conclude an “open-ended employment contract” with any employee who either has worked for the employer for 10 years or more or has had two consecutive fixed-term contracts. An “open-ended employment contract” is in effect a lifetime, permanent contract, which can only be terminated in specified circumstances, such as a material breach of the employer’s rules and regulations, or for a serious dereliction of duty. Under the new law, downsizing by 20% or more may occur only under specified circumstances, such as a restructuring undertaken pursuant to China’s Enterprise Bankruptcy Law, or where a company suffers serious difficulties in production and/or business operations. If the Company faces future periods of decline in business activity generally or adverse economic periods specific to the Company’s business, the Company could incur material severance payments to employees under this new law. This new law can be expected to exacerbate the adverse effect of labor inflation on the Company’s economic environment and its results of operations and financial condition. Cancellation or delays in purchase orders placed by our customers. Sales to our customers are primarily based on purchase orders and forecasts we receive. We generally purchase and stock raw materials and components upon receiving orders; however, we will purchase the raw materials and components for certain customers based on their rolling forecasts. When there is an acute shortage of raw materials and components such as plastic resins and metal, we are required to purchase such raw materials on an occasional or continuous basis in the expectation of receiving purchase orders for products that use these raw materials and components. In the event the actual orders are delayed or cancelled, we would have increased inventory levels or possible write-downs of our raw material inventory that could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Cost and availability of labor. There is an emerging trend of a shortage of supply of migrant workers in China, particularly in Guangdong Province where our factory is located. Both in numbers and in skill, the labor force in China cannot keep up with the current speed of economic development. We have adjusted salaries and fringe benefits in order to attract and retain an adequate labor force. This trend of labor shortages is expected to continue and will likely result in further increase in wages as companies seek to retain their existing work force. In the coming year, we expect that both a potential shortage of labor and increasing costs will impact our manufacturing operations, which could adversely affect gross margins. Change in taxation. The Company is subject to a lower overall effective tax rate than some U.S. domiciled corporations because of the location of its business operations. We are incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and have subsidiaries incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, Hong Kong, China and the United States. Our executive and administrative offices are located in Hong Kong and our manufacturing facilities are in China. Our customers are located primarily in the United States and China. Changes in tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. One of our subsidiaries in China, Dongguan Wing Shing Electrical Products Factory Company Limited (“Dongguan Wing Shing”), was subject to a preferential tax rate of 27% (24% reduced tax rate plus 3% local income tax rate) for the calendar years ended December 31, 2007. Dongguan Wing Shing houses our manufacturing facilities that incur a significant portion of manufacturing overhead and the finished products manufactured at Dongguan Wing Shing are sold to our other subsidiaries. The transfer pricing used could be challenged by the tax authorities which could subject us to material increases in taxation. In fiscal 2004, we established a new subsidiary, Dongguan Lite Array Company Limited (“Dongguan Lite Array”), which is entitled to a tax concession period (“Tax Holiday”) whereby it is exempt from corporate income taxes for its first two profit-making years and is entitled to a 50% tax reduction for the succeeding three years. Dongguan Lite Array started its first profit-making year under its Tax Holiday for its calendar year ended December 31, 2007. During the 5th Session of the 10th National People’s Congress of the PRC, which was concluded on March 16, 2007, a new PRC Corporate Income Tax Law 5 Table of Contents (the “New CIT Law”) was approved and became effective on January 1, 2008. The New CIT Law introduced a wide range of changes which included, but are not limited to, the unification of the income tax rate for domestic–invested and foreign–invested enterprises at 25%. Our former subsidiary in Macau, Pentalpha Macau Commercial Offshore Limited, which was liquidated in July 2008, was not subject to taxation in Macau in accordance with Macau tax regulations from inception through the year ended March 31, 2009. In fiscal 2005, our U.S. subsidiary, Lite Array, Inc, a Delaware corporation, engaged in the trading of raw materials for small molecule organic light emitting diode (“OLED”) technology for our other subsidiaries. The sales amount was immaterial and we subsequently ceased trading OLED products. There should be no taxable income recognized as the sales amount was not sufficient to cover the expenses incurred during the period and there were tax losses carried forward from prior years. Lite Array, Inc. has been inactive since fiscal 2006. At this stage, we do not believe that our current method of operations subjects us to U.S. taxes. There can be no assurance, however, that U.S. taxes could not be imposed on an additional portion of our income. The imposition of material U.S. income taxes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Dependence on major customers. Sales to five major customers accounted for 72.5%, 70.5% and 80.1% of our net sales during each of fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Electrolux Group, which was formerly known as The Eureka Company (“Electrolux”) was our largest customer in fiscal 2009 and sales to Electrolux accounted for 47.8% of our net sales in fiscal 2009 compared to 43.3% of our net sales in fiscal 2008. Royal Appliance Manufacturing Company (“Royal”), previously a major floor care company, was a major customer and sales to Techtronic Industries Limited (“TTI”) group, which includes Royal, accounted for 8.5% of our net sales in fiscal 2009 compared to 15.3% of our net sales in fiscal 2008. Electrolux is not contractually obligated to purchase floor care products from us, and we only sell to them on the basis of individual purchase orders when received. On December 17, 2002, TTI and Royal jointly announced that they had entered into a definitive agreement for TTI to acquire Royal. Effective April 23, 2003, TTI announced a merger with Royal. Since completion of the merger, Royal is operating as a wholly-owned subsidiary of TTI. TTI, like the Company, is a vertically integrated electrical products manufacturer based in Hong Kong and China. During fiscal 2008, the Company requested substantial price increases from TTI to compensate for cost increases we had incurred. TTI did not accept our price increases and thus when they replaced certain floor care models, we were not asked to quote on the new models. Our business with TTI is now minimal. Although the relative percentage of net sales to each of our major customers changes each year, we expect to be dependent on between two to four major customers including major PRC cell phone manufacturers for the foreseeable future. Although we may enter into contracts with general terms for the purchase of products with certain of our major customers, sales are generally made pursuant to purchase orders received by us from time to time. Therefore, there can be no assurance of the level of sales to any of these major customers in the future. The loss of any one of our major customers, particularly Electrolux, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Cost of raw materials. We are dependent upon outside suppliers for all of our raw material needs, including plastic resins, and are subject to price increases in these raw materials. The plastic resins we use are derived from natural gas liquids, and prices of these plastic resins have fluctuated in line with the fluctuation in natural gas and crude oil prices, as well as the relative capacity, supply and demand for the resin and petrochemical intermediates from which plastic resins are produced. During fiscal 2009, the price of plastic decreased 3.9% overall but subsequently has increased as a result of the recovery in crude oil prices. We have no long-term supply contracts for the purchase of plastic resin, but we generally maintain a 30-day supply. We have limited ability to increase product prices in response to plastic resin or other material cost increases. We closely monitor crude oil prices that normally affect the price of plastic resin and our inventory levels to ensure we can complete our orders on hand. If our reserves are not sufficient for our production requirements, we have to buy plastic resin at potentially higher prices in order to meet our delivery schedules. There can be no assurance that we will be able to purchase the necessary quantities of plastic resin and other raw materials at reasonable prices. Any future increase in the cost of plastic resins or other raw materials or our continuing inability to pass the increased cost of these or other raw materials onto our customers or to purchase sufficient quantities of plastic resins will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Security of bank accounts in the PRC. The Company has a number of bank accounts in the PRC to satisfy lines of credit, exchange regulations and banking facilities and to support its operations. None of these accounts are insured by the government. In the event there was a credit crisis in the PRC or a run on the bank, our accounts would be vulnerable for loss and this would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Change in global financial and credit markets. Global financial and credit markets have been, and continue to be, extremely unstable and unpredictable. Worldwide economic conditions have been weak and could deteriorate further. The instability of the markets and weakness of the global economy has adversely affected, and could continue to effect adversely, the demand for our customers’ products, the amount, timing and stability of their orders to us, the financial strength of our customers and suppliers, their ability or willingness to do business with us, our willingness to do business with them and/or our suppliers’ and customers’ ability to fulfill their obligations to us and/or the ability of our customers, our suppliers or us to obtain credit. These factors have and could continue to affect our operations, earnings and financial condition adversely. This instability also could affect the prices at which we could make any such sales, which also could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. 6 Table of Contents New product category. In 2005, we entered the consumer electronic products business concentrating on display-oriented products. Our subsidiary, Global Display Limited (which subsequently changed its name to Global Household Products Limited) developed a range of consumer products incorporating high-definition flat panel displays (“FPDs”) that utilized liquid crystal displays (“LCDs”), plasma display panels (“PDPs”), liquid crystal on silicon (“LCOS”), optical, and digital display technologies. Lite Array had been developing a range of display modules utilizing proprietary OLED technology. Since we had no commercial success in these new product categories and there was no assurance that we would do so in the future, we were required to provide for impairment of our long-lived assets since the carrying amount of our long-lived assets exceeded the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the asset’s use and eventual disposition. In addition, we had to write-down the value of the related inventories to market value. Any future impairment or write-down of inventory arising from a lack of commercial success in a new product category would have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. New products and rapid technological change. The technology incorporated in many of our products, particularly consumer electronics is characterized by rapid change in the marketplace. In addition, the emergence of new technologies can quickly render existing products obsolete or unmarketable. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards or consumer demand and successfully develop and introduce new or enhanced products that gain market acceptance will be a critical factor in our ability to grow and remain competitive. There can be no assurance that we will timely or successfully complete the development of new or enhanced products or successfully manage the transition from one product release to the next, or that our future products will achieve market acceptance. The failure to realize such goals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Proprietary technology; patent protection. We hold a number of patents registered in various jurisdictions, including the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, France and China, and hold the exclusive rights with respect to certain technology included in our products. We rely considerably upon a combination of trademark, copyright, know-how, trade secrets and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property rights. We believe that such measures afford only limited protection and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that the steps taken by us to protect these proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of the technology or the independent development of similar technology by others. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Indemnification liability for patent infringement. In contracts relating to original design manufacture (“ODM”) products, we typically agree to indemnify customers for all liabilities, costs, expenses or damages payable by our customers based upon a claim of patent infringement by an ODM product manufactured by us, whether such amount is awarded by a court or agreed to in settlement negotiations. The cost of any such customer indemnity or of responding to any infringement assertion could be significant, regardless of whether the assertion is valid. On behalf of a former customer, we are currently appealing a patent infringement judgment relating to a deep fryer model. See “Item 8.A—Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” We have recognized a loss contingency arising from this lawsuit which represents our best estimate of the outcome. Based on legal precedent and opinion of counsel we do not believe it is probable that enhanced damages and legal fees demanded by the plaintiff will prevail upon appeal. However, the ultimate outcome of the lawsuit may differ from our estimated loss. An adverse decision in any such legal proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Product liability. We may be subject to substantial product liability costs if claims arise out of problems associated with our products. We provide a warranty for limited manufacturing defects to certain of our customers. We do not provide warranties, however, that extend to the ultimate consumers of the product. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to a suit by a consumer who uses one of our products if the product causes an injury to any person or does not perform properly. We maintain product liability insurance in an amount we believe is sufficient. There can be no assurance, however, that our insurance coverage will be adequate or that all product liability claims will be covered by our current product liability insurance. In addition, these policies must be renewed annually. To date, we have not been subject to any material product liability claim. While we have been able to obtain product liability insurance in the past, premiums continue to increase in cost and may not be available in the future on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The failure to maintain insurance coverage, or a successful claim against us not covered by or in excess of the insurance coverage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, product liability claims, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, may have a material adverse effect on our business reputation. Product safety. We are responsible for ensuring that our products are safe and satisfy all of the requirements of the consumer products safety commission (“CPSC”) in the U.S. This may also apply to OEM products manufactured by us to customer specifications. In the event of a recall required by the CPSC, our customers may require us to provide replacement conforming units at our cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, quality reputation and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Product safety; delays in regulatory approval. Our products include several electrical components, which may cause fires if not properly installed. Although we have experienced no significant safety problems with our products in the past and believe that our products do not present safety risks, there can be no assurance that safety problems will not occur in the future. Prior to the commercial introduction of our products into the market, we always obtain approval of our products by at least one of the organizations engaged in testing product safety. The application process for securing these approvals requires a significant commitment of time and resources by our technical staff and could delay the introduction of our products. Our inability to obtain regulatory approval within the projected timeframe for commercial introduction of our products or other product introduction delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks of manufacturing in China; property damage. All of our products are manufactured at our factory complex located in China. In addition to the political and economic risks of operations in China, firefighting and disaster relief assistance in China is not as sophisticated as in Western countries. We currently maintain property damage insurance in the aggregate of approximately $83.4 million which covers our inventory, furniture, equipment, machinery and buildings and also maintain business interruption insurance in the aggregate of approximately $21.5 million for losses relating to our factory. Material damage to, or the loss of, our facilities due to fire, severe weather, flood or other act of God or cause, even if insured against, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Impact of environmental regulations. We are subject to Chinese laws that regulate environmental quality, the utilization of natural resources and the reduction of pollution. Environmental regulation in China is currently evolving and could become more stringent or more stringently enforced in the future, which could require us to make substantial additional capital expenditures in the future to maintain compliance. As a manufacturer, we are subject to annual inspections by the local branch of the State Environment Protection Administration (“SEPA”). Although compliance with environmental regulations has not had a material adverse effect on us in the past, failure to comply with these laws or to pass an inspection in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Dependence on distributions from operating subsidiaries and currency fluctuation. We have no direct business operations, other than our ownership of our subsidiaries. If we decide to pay dividends in the future, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations would depend upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and our other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries may also be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including, among others, restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions. Since we do not engage in hedging or other similar transactions, extraordinary currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Concentration of ownership. Wing Shing Holdings Company Limited, a British Virgin Islands company (“Wing Shing Holdings”) and family members of directors of the Company beneficially own approximately 61.8% of our outstanding common shares (issued net of treasury shares). The share ownership of Wing Shing Holdings is held 44% by Kwong Ho Sham and 56% by John Sham, both of whom are directors. Voting control of Wing Shing Holdings is held approximately 34.3% by Kwong Ho Sham and approximately 65.7% by John Sham. As a result, Wing Shing Holdings and its shareholders and family members are in a position to control our activities and policies, including possessing the voting power to elect our board of directors and approve all matters requiring shareholder approval and the ability to generally direct our affairs. Service and enforcement of legal process. We are organized under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. All but one of our directors and executive officers reside outside the United States, and most of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for investors to effect service of process on these persons within the United States or to enforce against these persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts, including judgments predicated on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. In particular, judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States may be difficult to enforce in British Virgin Islands courts and it is uncertain whether British Virgin Islands courts will enter judgments in original actions brought in British Virgin Islands courts predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. British Virgin Islands company. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the International Business Companies Act of the British Virgin Islands. Principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of our shareholders may differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in the United States or another jurisdiction. The rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as are the rights of shareholders in many other jurisdictions. Thus, our shareholders may have more relative difficulty protecting their interests against certain actions by our board of directors or principal shareholders than similarly situated shareholders of a corporation incorporated in another jurisdiction. Please see details under “Item 10—Additional Information.” 8 Table of Contents Director actions without shareholder approval. Under our memorandum and articles of association and the laws of the British Virgin Islands, our memorandum and articles of association may be amended by our board of directors without shareholder approval. This includes: • increasing or reducing our authorized capital; • authorizing the issuance of different classes of shares, including preference shares; and • increasing or reducing the par value of our shares. Our ability to amend our memorandum and articles of association by a resolution of directors or a resolution of members could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of the Company without any further action by the shareholders including, but not limited to, a tender offer to purchase our common shares at a premium over then current market prices. Our status as a foreign private issuer. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended (the “Exchange Act”). As such, we are exempt from certain of the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act and corporate governance standards of Nasdaq Stock Market (“Nasdaq”). Because of these exemptions, investors are not afforded the same protection or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States or traded on the Nasdaq. However, the Nasdaq does not exempt foreign private issuers from independent audit committee requirements and we are required to disclose any significant ways our current corporate governance practices differ from those followed by domestic companies under the Nasdaq listing standards. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer must notify the Nasdaq if one of our executive officers becomes aware of any material non-compliance with any applicable Nasdaq corporate governance listing standards to the Nasdaq. Please see “Item 16G-Corporate Governance” for more information. Reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. No treaty exists between Hong Kong and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. Accordingly, Hong Kong courts might not enforce judgments predicated on the federal securities laws of the United States, whether arising from actions brought in the United States or, if permitted, in Hong Kong. Delisting of our common shares. Our Common Stock is currently quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market. The Company must satisfy certain minimum listing maintenance requirements to maintain such quotation, including a series of financial tests relating to shareholders equity or net income or market value, public float, number of market makers and shareholders, market capitalization, and maintaining a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for the Common Stock. If our Common Stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, then our Common Stock may trade on the Over-the-Counter-Bulletin Board, which is viewed by most investors as a less desirable and less liquid market place. Delisting from The Nasdaq Capital Market could make trading the Common Stock more difficult and expensive for the Company to raise additional capital. 9 Table of Contents 