ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are factors that could have a significant impact on the operations and financial results of IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company and could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in any forward-looking statements: • Reduced hydroelectric generation can reduce revenues and increase costs. Idaho Power Company has a predominately hydroelectric generating base. Because of Idaho Power Company's heavy reliance on hydroelectric generation, the weather can significantly affect its operations. When hydroelectric generation is reduced, Idaho Power Company must increase its use of generally more expensive thermal generating resources and purchased power. Through its power cost adjustment in Idaho, Idaho Power Company can expect to recover approximately 90 percent of the increase in its Idaho jurisdictional net power supply costs, which are fuel and purchased power less off-system sales, above the level included in its base rates. The power cost adjustment recovery includes both a forecast and deferrals that are subject to the regulatory process. However, recovery of amounts above forecast in one power cost adjustment year does not occur until the subsequent power cost adjustment year. The non-Idaho net power supply costs are subject to periodic recovery from the Oregon and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission jurisdictional customers. • Continuing declines in stream flows and over-appropriation of water in Idaho may reduce hydroelectric generation and revenues and increase costs. The combination of declining Snake River base flows, over-appropriation of water and drought conditions have led to disputes among surface water and ground water irrigators, and the state of Idaho. Recharging the Eastern Snake Plain Aquifer, which contributes to Snake River flows, by diverting surface water to porous locations and permitting it to sink into the aquifer is one proposed solution to the dispute. Diversions from the Snake River for aquifer recharge may further reduce Snake River flows available for hydroelectric generation and reduce Idaho Power Company's revenues and increase costs. Idaho Power Company is also involved in legal actions involving the water rights it holds for hydroelectric purposes. One such action, initiated in the Snake River Basin Adjudication, involves Idaho Power Company's water rights at the Swan Falls project on the Snake River and several other upstream hydroelectric projects that are the subject of a 1984 agreement with the state of Idaho known as the Swan Falls Agreement. Idaho Power Company also has initiated legal action against the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation over the interpretation and effect of a 1923 contract with the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation on the operation of the American Falls Reservoir and the release of water from that reservoir to be used at Idaho Power Company's downstream hydroelectric projects. The resolution of these legal actions may affect Snake River flows available for hydroelectric generation and thereby reduce Idaho Power Company revenues and increase costs. • Load growth in Idaho Power Company's service territory exposes it to greater market and operational risk and could increase costs and reduce earnings and cash flows. Increases in both the number of customers and the demand for energy have resulted and may continue to result in increased reliance on purchased power to meet customer load requirements. o Through its annual power cost adjustment in Idaho, Idaho Power Company can expect to recover approximately 90 percent of the increase in its Idaho jurisdictional net power supply costs, which are fuel and purchased power less off-system sales, above the level included in its base rates. The remaining ten percent is absorbed by Idaho Power Company. 10 Table of Contents o Idaho Power Company's load growth adjustment rate adjusts the net power supply costs Idaho Power Company includes in its annual power cost adjustment for differences between actual load and the load used in calculating base rates. In periods of growing load, the marginal energy costs of serving new Idaho retail customers are subtracted from the power cost adjustment leaving Idaho Power Company with no opportunity between general rate case filings to recover these costs. If the Idaho Public Utilities Commission increases the rate or modifies the method used to calculate the load growth adjustment rate, or if customer load is higher than the load used to calculate base rates, Idaho Power Company's earnings and cash flows could be reduced. o Since the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission implemented market-based wholesale power rates in 1997, the price volatility of electricity has substantially increased from what it was at the inception of the power cost adjustment. As Idaho Power Company's reliance on purchased power continues to increase, the risks associated with the remaining ten percent not recovered through the power cost adjustment could increase costs and reduce earnings and cash flows. o Increased load growth can result in the need for additional investments in Idaho Power Company's infrastructure to serve the new load. If Idaho Power Company were unable to secure timely rate relief from the Idaho Public Utilities Commission, the Oregon Public Utility Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to recover the costs of these additional investments, the resulting regulatory lag would have a negative effect on earnings and cash flow. o Increased and unexpected load growth can create planning and operating difficulties for Idaho Power Company that can impact its ability to reliably serve customers. • Idaho Power Company's reliance on coal and natural gas to fuel its power generation facilities exposes it to risk of increased costs and reduced earnings. In addition to hydroelectric generation, Idaho Power Company relies on coal and natural gas to fuel its generation facilities. Market price increases in coal and natural gas can result in reduced earnings. Increases in demand for natural gas, including increases in demand due to greater industry reliance on natural gas for power generation, may result in market price increases and/or supply availability issues. In addition, delivery of coal and natural gas depends upon gas pipelines, rail lines, rail cars and roadways. Any disruption in Idaho Power Company's fuel supply may require the company to find alternative fuel sources at higher costs, to produce power from higher cost generation facilities or to purchase power from other sources. • Changes in temperature and precipitation can reduce power sales and revenues. Warmer than normal winters, cooler than normal summers and increased rainfall during the irrigation seasons will reduce retail revenues from power sales. • Climate change could affect customer demand and hydroelectric generation and lead to restrictions on generation resources. Long-term climate change could significantly affect Idaho Power Company's business because changes in temperature, precipitation and snow pack conditions could affect customer demand and the amount and timing of hydroelectric generation. In addition, legislative and/or regulatory developments related to climate change could place restrictions on construction of new generation resources, the expansion of existing resources, or operation of generation resources. • If the Idaho Public Utilities Commission, the Oregon Public Utility Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission grant less rate recovery in rate case filings than Idaho Power Company needs to cover increased costs of providing services, earnings and cash flows may be reduced and economic expansion may be limited. If the Idaho Public Utilities Commission, the Oregon Public Utility Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission were to grant less rate recovery in rate case filings than Idaho Power Company needs to cover increased costs of providing services, it may have a negative effect on earnings and cash flow and could result in downgrades of IDACORP, Inc.'s and Idaho Power Company's credit ratings. Failure to obtain regular and timely rate relief may limit Idaho Power Company's possibilities for economic expansion. • Conditions that may be imposed in connection with hydroelectric license renewals may require large capital expenditures and reduce earnings and cash flows. Idaho Power Company is currently involved in renewing federal licenses for several of its hydroelectric projects. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission may impose conditions with respect to environmental, operating and other matters in connection with the renewal of Idaho Power Company's licenses. These conditions could have a negative effect on Idaho Power Company's operations, require large capital expenditures and reduce earnings and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents • The cost of complying with environmental regulations can increase capital expenditures and operating costs and reduce earnings and cash flows. IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, natural resources and health and safety. Compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations involves significant capital and operating expenditures. These expenditures could become even more significant in the future if legislation and enforcement policies change. For instance, considerable attention has been focused on emissions from coal-fired generating plants, including carbon dioxide, and their potential role in contributing to global warming. The effects of mercury and other pollutant emissions from coal-fired plants are also being discussed. Governmental and non-governmental entities closely scrutinize these plants and bring enforcement actions to ensure compliance. The adoption of new statutes, rules and regulations to implement carbon dioxide, mercury or other emission controls could result in increased capital expenditures and could increase the cost of operating coal-fired generating plants, and reduce earnings and cash flows. • IDACORP, Inc., IDACORP Energy and Idaho Power Company are subject to costs and other effects of legal and regulatory proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims, including those that have arisen out of the western energy situation. IDACORP, Inc., IDACORP Energy and Idaho Power Company are involved in a number of proceedings including the California refund proceeding at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which has been settled with the largest portion of the market participants but which has appeals pending at the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit; a refund proceeding affecting sellers of wholesale power in the spot market in the Pacific Northwest, in which the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission directed that no refunds be paid, but in connection with which the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit issued a decision remanding the matter to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and which is presently the subject of rehearing applications pending before the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit; show cause proceedings at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which have been settled but have been appealed; claims pending before the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ordered refund period should have been expanded to include a longer time period; and the reversal by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit of Federal Energy Regulatory Commission rulings that market-based sellers' transactional reports satisfy the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's filed-rate doctrine requirements as a means of expanding refunds from all sellers of wholesale power, which rulings have been remanded to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. To the extent the companies are required to make payments, earnings and cash flows will be negatively affected. It is possible that additional proceedings related to the western energy situation may be filed in the future against IDACORP, Inc., IDACORP Energy or Idaho Power Company. • Idaho Power Company's business is subject to substantial governmental regulation and may be adversely affected by increased costs resulting from, or liability under, existing or future regulations or requirements. Idaho Power Company is subject to extensive federal and state laws, policies, and regulations, as well as regulatory actions and regulatory audits, including those of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, the Western Electricity Coordinating Council and the public utility commissions in Idaho, Oregon and Wyoming. Some of these regulations are changing or subject to interpretation, and failure to comply may result in penalties or other adverse consequences. Compliance with these requirements directly influences Idaho Power Company's operating environment and may significantly increase Idaho Power Company's operating costs. • Increased capital expenditures can significantly affect liquidity. Increases in both the number of customers and the demand for energy require expansion and reinforcement of transmission and, distribution systems and generating facilities. If Idaho Power Company does not receive timely regulatory recovery, Idaho Power Company will have to rely more on external financing for its future utility construction expenditures. These large planned expenditures may weaken the consolidated financial profile of IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company. Additionally, a significant portion of Idaho Power Company's facilities were constructed many years ago. Aging equipment, even if maintained in accordance with industry practices, may require significant capital expenditures. Failure of equipment or facilities used in Idaho Power Company's system could potentially increase repair and maintenance expenses, purchased power expenses and capital expenditures. 12 Table of Contents • As a holding company, IDACORP, Inc. does not have its own operating income and must rely on the upstream cash flows from its subsidiaries to pay dividends and make debt payments. IDACORP, Inc. is a holding company and thus its primary assets are shares or other ownership interests of its subsidiaries, primarily Idaho Power Company. Consequently, IDACORP, Inc.'s ability to pay dividends and its ability to service its debt is dependent upon dividends and other payments received from its subsidiaries. IDACORP, Inc.'s subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to IDACORP, Inc., whether through dividends, loans or other payments. The ability of IDACORP, Inc.'s subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to IDACORP, Inc. depends on several factors, including their actual and projected earnings and cash flow, capital requirements and general financial condition, and the prior rights of holders of their existing and future first mortgage bonds and other debt securities. • A downgrade in IDACORP, Inc.'s and Idaho Power Company's credit ratings could negatively affect the companies' ability to access capital and increase their cost of borrowing. On January 31, 2008, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services lowered the corporate credit rating and long-term ratings of IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company. In addition, two series of pollution control bonds issued for Idaho Power Company's benefit are supported by financial guaranty insurance policies. The interest rates on these bonds have increased significantly because of the ratings downgrades of the bond insurer. IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company also have borrowing arrangements that rely on the ability of the banks to fund loans or support commercial paper. Current or future downgrades of IDACORP, Inc.'s or Idaho Power Company's credit ratings, or those affecting bond insurers or relationship banks, could limit the companies' ability to access capital, including the commercial paper markets, and require IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company to pay a higher interest rate on their debt. • Terrorist threats and activities could result in reduced revenues and increased costs. IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities. Potential targets include generation and transmission facilities. The effects of terrorist threats and activities could prevent Idaho Power Company from purchasing, generating or transmitting power and result in reduced revenues and increased costs. • Adverse results of income tax audits could reduce earnings and cash flows. The outcome of ongoing and future income tax audits could differ materially from the amounts currently recorded, and the difference could reduce IDACORP's and Idaho Power Company's earnings and cash flows. • Employee workforce factors could increase costs and reduce earnings. Idaho Power Company is subject to workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key personnel, availability of qualified personnel, and an aging workforce. Demographic factors in the workplace present challenges to employers nationwide and are of particular concern to the electric utility industry. Approximately one-half of the industry's workforce is age 45 or older, making the median age of utility workers higher than the national average. Idaho Power Company is confronted with the challenge of retaining its skilled workforce while recruiting new talent to offset critical losses due to retirements. The costs of attracting and retaining appropriately qualified employees to replace an aging workforce could reduce earnings and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 13 Table of Contents 