Item 1A. Risk Factors RISKS RELATING TO THE CORPORATION’S BUSINESS We are operating under agreements with our regulators. We are subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve Board. We are a bank holding company and a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. As such, we are permitted to engage in a broader spectrum of activities than those permitted to bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. At this time, under the BHC Act, we may not be able to engage in new activities or acquire shares or control of other companies. In addition, we are subject to restrictions because of the Regulatory Agreements that our subsidiary FirstBank entered into with the FDIC and we entered into with the Federal Reserve, as further described below. On June 4, 2010, we announced that FirstBank agreed to the FDIC Order issued by the FDIC and OCIF, and we entered into the Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve. These Regulatory Agreements stemmed from the FDIC’s examination as of the period ended June 30, 2009 conducted during the second half of 2009. Although our regulatory capital ratios exceeded the required established minimum capital ratios for a “well-capitalized” institution as of December 31, 2012 and complied with the capital ratios required by the FDIC Order, FirstBank cannot be regarded as “well-capitalized” as of December 31, 2012 because of the FDIC Order. Under the FDIC Order, FirstBank agreed to address specific areas of concern to the FDIC and OCIF through the adoption and implementation of procedures, plans and policies designed to improve the safety and soundness of FirstBank. These actions include, among others: (1) having and retaining qualified management; (2) increased participation in the affairs of FirstBank by its Board of Directors; (3) development and implementation by FirstBank of a capital plan to attain a leverage ratio of at least 8%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 10% and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 12%; (4) adoption and implementation of strategic, liquidity and fund management, and profit and budget plans and related projects within certain timetables set forth in the FDIC Order and on an ongoing basis; (5) adoption and implementation of plans for reducing FirstBank’s positions in certain classified assets and delinquent and non-accrual loans; (6) refraining from lending to delinquent or classified borrowers already obligated to FirstBank on any extensions of credit so long as such credit remains uncollected, except where FirstBank’s failure to extend further credit to a particular borrower would be detrimental to the best interests of FirstBank, and any such additional credit is approved by FirstBank’s Board of Directors, or a designated committee thereof; (7) refraining from accepting, increasing, renewing or rolling over brokered CDs without the prior written approval of the FDIC; (8) establishment of a comprehensive policy and methodology for determining the allowance for loan and lease losses and the review and revision of FirstBank’s loan policies, including the non-accrual policy; and (9) adoption and implementation of adequate and effective programs of independent loan review, appraisal compliance and an effective policy for managing FirstBank’s sensitivity to interest rate risk. The Written A agreement, which is designed to enhance our ability to act as a source of strength to FirstBank, requires that we obtain prior Federal Reserve approval before declaring or paying dividends, receiving dividends from FirstBank, making payments on subordinated debt or trust-preferred securities, incurring, increasing or guaranteeing debt (whether such debt is incurred, increased or guaranteed, directly or indirectly, by us or any of our non-banking subsidiaries) or purchasing or redeeming any capital stock. The Written Agreement also requires us to submit to the Federal Reserve a capital plan and progress reports, comply with certain notice provisions prior to appointing new directors or senior executive officers and comply with certain payment restrictions on severance payments and indemnification restrictions. We anticipate that we will need to continue to dedicate significant resources to our efforts to comply with the Regulatory Agreements, which may increase operational costs or adversely affect the amount of time our management has to conduct our operations. If we need to continue to recognize significant reserves, we and FirstBank may not be able to continue to comply with the minimum capital requirements included in the capital plans required by the Regulatory Agreements. 29 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with the Regulatory Agreements in the future, we may become subject to additional regulatory enforcement action up to and including the appointment of a conservator or receiver for FirstBank. Our high level of non-performing loans may adversely affect our future results from operations. Even though, as of December 31, 2012, our level of non-performing loans decreased for eleven consecutive quarters and our second, third and fourth quarters of 2012 were profitable, those are our only profitable quarters since 2009, and we have $977.8 million in non-performing loans, which represents approximately 9.7% of our $10.1 billion loan portfolio held for investment. We may not continue to be profitable given this high level of non-performing loans. Certain funding sources may not be available to us and our funding sources may prove insufficient and/or costly to replace. FirstBank relies primarily on customer deposits, issuance of brokered CDs, and advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank, to maintain its lending activities and to replace certain maturing liabilities. As of December 31, 2012, we had $3.4 billion in brokered CDs outstanding, representing approximately 34.21% of our total deposits, and a reduction of $357 million from the year ended December 31, 2011. Approximately $2.2 billion in brokered CDs mature over the next twelve months, and the average term to maturity of the retail brokered CDs outstanding as of December 31, 2012 was approximately 1.1 years. Approximately 0.13% or $4.3 million of the principal value of these CDs is callable at the Corporation’s option. Although FirstBank has historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances, we may not be able to replace these funds in the future if our financial condition or general market conditions were to change or the FDIC did not approve our request to issue brokered CDs, as required by the FDIC Order. The FDIC Order requires FirstBank to obtain FDIC approval prior to issuing, increasing, renewing or rolling over brokered CDs and to develop a plan to reduce its reliance on brokered CDs. Although the FDIC has issued temporary approvals permitting FirstBank to renew and/or roll over certain amounts of brokered CDs maturing in the past and we have received approval from the FDIC to issue brokered CDs through March 31, 2013, the FDIC may not continue to issue such approvals, even if the requests are consistent with our plans to reduce reliance on brokered CDs, and, even if issued, such approvals may not be for amounts of brokered CDs sufficient for FirstBank to meet its funding needs. The use of brokered CDs has been particularly important for the funding of our operations. If we are unable to issue brokered CDs, or are unable to maintain access to our other funding sources, our results of operations and liquidity would be adversely affected. Alternate sources of funding may carry higher costs than sources currently utilized. If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources, profitability would be adversely affected. We may seek debt financing in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. Any future debt financing requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve, and the Federal Reserve may not approve such financing. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us, or if available, may not be on acceptable terms. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, our credit ratings and our credit capacity. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on acceptable terms, our profitability and future prospects could be adversely affected. We depend on cash dividends from FirstBank to meet our cash obligations. As a holding company, dividends from FirstBank have provided a substantial portion of our cash flow used to service the interest payments on our trust-preferred securities and other obligations. As outlined in the Written Agreement, we cannot receive any cash dividends from FirstBank without prior written approval of the Federal Reserve. In addition, FirstBank is limited by law in its ability to make dividend payments and other distributions to us based on its earnings and capital position. Our inability to receive approval from the Federal Reserve to 30 Table of Contents receive dividends from FirstBank or FirstBank’s failure to generate sufficient cash flow to make dividend payments to us, may adversely affect our ability to meet all projected cash needs in the ordinary course of business and may have a detrimental impact on our financial condition. The Banking Act of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico requires that a minimum of 10% of FirstBank’s net income for the year be transferred to legal surplus until such surplus equals the total of paid-in-capital on common and preferred stock. Amounts transferred to the legal surplus account from the retained earnings account are not available for distribution to the Corporation without the prior consent of the OCIF. FirstBank’s net loss experienced in 2011 exhausted FirstBank’s statutory reserve fund. FirstBank cannot pay dividends to the Corporation until it can replenish the reserve fund to an amount of at least 20% of the original capital contributed. If we do not obtain Federal Reserve approval to pay interest, principal or other sums on subordinated debentures or trust-preferred securities, a default under certain obligations may occur. The Written Agreement provides that we cannot declare or pay any dividends or make any distributions of interest, principal or other sums on subordinated debentures or trust-preferred securities without prior written approval of the Federal Reserve. With respect to our $232 million of outstanding subordinated debentures, we elected to defer the interest payments that were due in March 2012, June 2012, September 2012, December 2012 and March 2013. Under the indentures, we have the right, from time to time, and without causing an event of default, to defer payments of interest on the subordinated debentures by extending the interest payment period at any time and from time to time during the term of the subordinated debentures for up to twenty consecutive quarterly periods. We may continue to elect extension periods for future quarterly interest payments if the Federal Reserve advises us that it will not approve such future quarterly interest payments. Our inability to receive approval from the Federal Reserve to make distributions of interest, principal or other sums on our trust-preferred securities and subordinated debentures could result in a default under those obligations if we need to defer such payments for longer than twenty consecutive quarterly periods. Credit quality may result in additional losses. The quality of our credits has continued to be under pressure as a result of continued recessionary conditions in the markets we serve that have led to, among other things, higher unemployment levels, much lower absorption rates for new residential construction projects and further declines in property values. Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers and counterparties and the value of the assets securing our loans or underlying our investments. When the credit quality of the customer base materially decreases or the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers changes materially, our business, financial condition, allowance levels, asset impairments, liquidity, capital and results of operations are adversely affected. We have a construction loan portfolio held for investment, in the amount of $361.9 million as of December 31, 2012, mostly secured by commercial and residential real estate properties. Due to their nature, these loans entail a higher credit risk than consumer and residential mortgage loans, since they are larger in size, concentrate more risk in a single borrower and are generally more sensitive to economic downturns. Although we previously ceased new originations of construction loans, decreasing collateral values, difficult economic conditions and numerous other factors continue to create volatility in the housing markets and have increased the possibility that additional losses may have to be recognized with respect to our current non-performing assets. Furthermore, given the slowdown in the real estate market, the properties securing these loans may be difficult to dispose of if they are foreclosed. Although we have taken a number of steps to reduce our credit exposure, as of December 31, 2012, we still had $178.2 million in nonperforming construction loans held for investment. We may continue to incur credit losses over the near term, either because of continued deterioration of the quality of the loans or because of sales of such loans, which would likely accelerate the recognition of losses. Any such losses would adversely impact our overall financial performance and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and we may be required to materially increase our allowance, which may adversely affect our capital, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the risk of loss from loan defaults and foreclosures with respect to the loans we originate and purchase. We establish a provision for loan losses, which leads to reductions in our income from operations, in order to maintain our allowance for inherent loan losses at a level that our management deems to be appropriate based upon an assessment of the quality of the loan portfolio. Management may fail to accurately estimate the level of inherent loan losses or may have to increase our provision for loan losses in the future as a result of new information regarding existing loans, future increases in non-performing loans, changes in economic and other conditions affecting borrowers or for other reasons beyond our control. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional classified loans and loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. We may have to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses in the future. The level of the allowance reflects management’s estimates based upon various assumptions and judgments as to specific credit risks, evaluation of industry concentrations, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates and judgments regarding current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates prove to be incorrect, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses in our loan portfolio and our expense relating to the additional provision for credit losses could increase substantially. Any such increases in our provision for loan losses or any loan losses in excess of our provision for loan losses would have an adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. Given the difficulties facing some of our largest borrowers, these borrowers may fail to continue to repay their loans on a timely basis or we may not be able to assess accurately any risk of loss from the loans to these borrowers. Changes in collateral values of properties located in stagnant or distressed economies may require increased reserves. Further deterioration of the value of real estate collateral securing our construction, commercial and residential mortgage loan portfolios would result in increased credit losses. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 3.60%, 18.74% and 27.32% of our loan portfolio consisted of construction, commercial and residential real estate loans, respectively. A substantial part of our loan portfolio is located within the boundaries of the U.S. economy. Whether the collateral is located in Puerto Rico, USVI, the BVI, or the U.S. mainland, the performance of our loan portfolio and the collateral value backing the transactions are dependent upon the performance of and conditions within each specific real estate market. Puerto Rico has been in an economic recession since 2006. Sustained weak economic conditions that have affected Puerto Rico and the United States over the last several years have resulted in declines in collateral values. Construction and commercial loans, mostly secured by commercial and residential real estate properties, entail a higher credit risk than consumer and residential mortgage loans, since they are larger in size, may have less collateral coverage, concentrate more risk in a single borrower and are generally more sensitive to economic downturns. As of December 31, 2012, commercial and construction real estate loans, amounted to $2.2 billion or 22% of the total loan portfolio. We measure the impairment of a loan based on the fair value of the collateral, if collateral dependent, which is generally obtained from appraisals. Updated appraisals are obtained when we determine that loans are 32 Table of Contents impaired and are updated annually thereafter. In addition, appraisals are also obtained for certain residential mortgage loans on a spot basis based on specific characteristics such as delinquency levels, age of the appraisal and loan-to-value ratios. The appraised value of the collateral may decrease or we may not be able to recover collateral at its appraised value. A significant decline in collateral valuations for collateral dependent loans may require increases in our specific provision for loan losses and an increase in the general valuation allowance. Any such increase would have an adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2012, net charge-offs specifically related to values of properties collateralizing construction, commercial and residential mortgage loans portfolios totaled $40.7 million, $21.0 million and $36.9 million, respectively. Interest rate shifts may reduce net interest income. Shifts in short-term interest rates may reduce net interest income, which is the principal component of our earnings. Net interest income is the difference between the amounts received by us on our interest-earning assets and the interest paid by us on our interest-bearing liabilities. Differences in the re-pricing structure of our assets and liabilities may result in changes in our profits when interest rates change. Increases in interest rates may reduce the value of holdings of securities. Fixed-rate securities acquired by us are generally subject to decreases in market value when interest rates rise, which may require recognition of a loss (e.g., the identification of an other-than-temporary impairment on our available-for-sale investment portfolio), thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. Market-related reductions in value also influence our ability to finance these securities. Furthermore, increases in interest rates may result in an extension of the expected average life of certain fixed-income securities, such as fixed-rate passthrough mortgage-backed securities. Such extension could exacerbate the drop in market value related to shifts in interest rates. Increases in interest rates may reduce demand for mortgage and other loans. Higher interest rates increase the cost of mortgage and other loans to consumers and businesses and may reduce demand for such loans, which may negatively impact our profits by reducing the amount of loan interest income. Accelerated prepayments may adversely affect net interest income. In general, fixed-income portfolio yields could decrease as the re-investment of pre-payments amounts would most certainly be at lower rates. Net interest income could be affected by prepayments of mortgage-backed securities. Acceleration in the prepayments of mortgage-backed securities would lower yields on these securities, as the amortization of premiums paid upon the acquisition of these securities would accelerate. Conversely, acceleration in the prepayments of mortgage-backed securities would increase yields on securities purchased at a discount, as the accretion of the discount would accelerate. These risks are directly linked to future period market interest rate fluctuations. Also, net interest income in future periods might be affected by our investment in callable securities because decreases in interest rates might prompt the early redemption of such securities. Changes in interest rates on loans and borrowings may adversely affect net interest income. Basis risk is the risk of adverse consequences resulting from unequal changes in the difference, also referred to as the “spread” or basis, between the rates for two or more different instruments with the same maturity and occurs when market rates for different financial instruments or the indices used to price assets and liabilities change at different times or by different amounts. For example, the interest expense for liability instruments such as brokered CDs might not change by the same amount as interest income received from loans or investments. To 33 Table of Contents the extent that the interest rates on loans and borrowings change at different speeds and by different amounts, the margin between our LIBOR-based assets and the higher cost of the brokered CDs might be compressed and adversely affect net interest income. If all or a significant portion of the unrealized losses in our investment securities portfolio on our consolidated balance sheet is determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired, we would recognize a material charge to our earnings and our capital ratios would be adversely affected. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011, and 2012, we recognized a total of $1.2 million, $2.0 million, and $2.0 million, respectively, in other-than-temporary impairments. To the extent that any portion of the unrealized losses in our investment securities portfolio of $19.5 million as of December 31, 2012 is determined to be other-than-temporary and, in the case of debt securities, the loss is related to credit factors, we would recognize a charge to earnings in the quarter during which such determination is made and capital ratios could be adversely affected. Even if we do not determine that the unrealized losses associated with this portfolio require an impairment charge, increases in these unrealized losses adversely affect our tangible common equity ratio, which may adversely affect credit rating agency and investor sentiment towards us. Any negative perception also may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or might increase our cost of capital. Valuation and other-than-temporary impairment determinations will continue to be affected by external market factors including default rates, severity rates and macro-economic factors. Downgrades in our credit ratings could further increase the cost of borrowing funds. The Corporation’s ability to access new non-deposit sources of funding could be adversely affected by downgrades in our credit ratings. The Corporation’s liquidity is to a certain extent contingent upon its ability to obtain external sources of funding to finance its operations. The Corporation’s current credit ratings and any downgrades in such credit ratings can hinder the Corporation’s access to external funding and/or cause external funding to be more expensive, which could in turn adversely affect results of operations. Also, changes in credit ratings may further affect the fair value of certain unsecured derivatives that consider the Corporation’s own credit risk as part of the valuation. Defective and repurchased loans may harm our business and financial condition. In connection with the sale and securitization of loans, we are required to make a variety of customary representations and warranties regarding First BanCorp. on the loans sold or securitized. Our obligations with respect to these representations and warranties are generally outstanding for the life of the loan, and they relate to, among other things: • compliance with laws and regulations; • underwriting standards; • the accuracy of information in the loan documents and loan file; and • the characteristics and enforceability of the loan. A loan that does not comply with these representations and warranties may take longer to sell, may impact our ability to obtain third party financing for the loan, and may not be saleable or may be saleable only at a significant discount. If such a loan is sold before we detect non-compliance, we may be obligated to repurchase the loan and bear any associated loss directly, or we may be obligated to indemnify the purchaser against any loss, either of which could reduce our cash available for operations and liquidity. Management believes that it has established controls to ensure that loans are originated in accordance with the secondary market’s requirements, but mistakes may be made, or certain employees may deliberately violate our lending policies. We seek to minimize repurchases and losses from defective loans by correcting flaws, if possible, and selling or re-selling such loans. Until now, losses incurred for repurchases of loans have been insignificant. 34 Table of Contents Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, our risk management policies and procedures may be inadequate and operational risk could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. We may fail to identify and manage risks related to a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, operational risk, interest-rate risk, trading risk, fiduciary risk, legal and compliance risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. We have adopted and periodically improved various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risk. Any improvements to our controls, procedures, policies and systems, however, may not be adequate to identify and manage the risks in our various businesses. If our risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to keep pace with changes in the financial markets or our businesses or for other reasons, we could incur losses or suffer reputational damage or find ourselves out of compliance with applicable regulatory mandates or expectations. We may also be subject to disruptions from external events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market settlement functions. In addition, our customers, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. Should these events affect us, or the customers, vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our consolidated results of operations could be negatively affected. When we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies related to operational losses, we may be unable to accurately estimate our potential exposure, and any reserves we establish to cover operational losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition for the periods in which we recognize the losses. Cyber-attacks, system risks and data protection breaches could present significant reputational, legal and regulatory costs. First BanCorp. is under continuous threat of cyber-attacks especially as we continue to expand customer services via the internet and other remote service channels. Two of the most significant cyber attack risks that we may face are e-fraud and computer intrusion that might result in loss of sensitive customer data. Loss from e-fraud occurs when cybercriminals breach and extract funds from customer bank accounts. Computer intrusion attempts might result in the breach of sensitive customer data, such as account numbers and social security numbers, and could present significant reputational, legal and/or regulatory costs to the Corporation if successful. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of the evolving nature and complexity of the threats from organized cybercriminals and hackers, and our plans to continue to provide electronic banking services to our customers. If personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of our customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. We rely on other companies to perform key aspects of our business infrastructure Third parties perform key aspects of our business operations such as data processing, information security, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, internet connections and network access and the servicing of the credit card portfolio. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, or failure of a vendor to notify us of a reportable event, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor’s ability to serve us. Replacing these third party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations. 35 Table of Contents Hurricanes and other weather-related events could cause a disruption in our operations or other consequences that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. A significant portion of our operations is located in a region susceptible to hurricanes. Such weather events can cause disruption to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. We maintain hurricane insurance, including coverage for lost profits and extra expense; however, there is no insurance against the disruption to the markets that we serve that a catastrophic hurricane could produce. Further, a hurricane in any of our market areas could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans and may adversely impact the value of any collateral held by us. The severity and impact of future hurricanes and other weather-related events are difficult to predict and may be exacerbated by global climate change. The effects of past or future hurricanes and other weather-related events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and we may not be able to hire people or retain them, particularly in light of uncertainty concerning evolving compensation restrictions applicable to banks but not applicable to other financial services firms. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could adversely affect our business because of the loss of their skills, knowledge of our markets and years of industry experience and, in some cases, because of the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement employees. Similarly, the loss of key employees, either individually or as a group, could result in a loss of customer confidence in our ability to execute banking transactions on their behalf. Further increases in the FDIC deposit insurance premium or in FDIC required reserves may have a significant financial impact on us. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured depository institutions up to certain limits. The FDIC charges insured depository institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”). Current economic conditions during the last few years have resulted in higher bank failures. In the event of a bank failure, the FDIC takes control of a failed bank and ensures payment of deposits up to insured limits using the resources of the DIF. The FDIC is required by law to maintain adequate funding of the DIF, and the FDIC may increase premium assessments to maintain such funding. The Dodd-Frank Act signed into law on July 21, 2010 requires the FDIC to increase the DIF’s reserves against future losses, which will require institutions with assets greater than $10 billion to bear an increased responsibility for funding the prescribed reserve to support the DIF. Since then, the FDIC addressed plans to bolster the DIF by increasing the required reserve ratio for the industry to 1.35 percent (ratio of reserves to insured deposits) by September 30, 2020, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The FDIC has also adopted a final rule raising its industry target ratio of reserves to insured deposits to 2 percent, 65 basis points above the statutory minimum, but the FDIC does not project that goal to be met for several years. In February 2011, the FDIC issued a final rule that amended its deposit insurance assessment regulations. The rule implements a provision in the Dodd-Frank Act that changes the assessment base for deposit insurance premiums from one based on domestic deposits to one based on average consolidated total assets minus average Tier 1 capital. The rule also changed the assessment rate schedules for insured depository institutions so that approximately the same amount of revenue would be collected under the new assessment base as would be collected under the previous rate schedule and the schedules previously proposed by the FDIC. The rule also revised the risk-based assessment system for all large insured depository institutions (generally, institutions with at least $10 billion in total assets, such as FirstBank). Under the rule, the FDIC uses a scorecard method to calculate assessment rates for all such institutions. 36 Table of Contents The FDIC may further increase FirstBank’s premiums or impose additional assessments or prepayment requirements in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act has removed the statutory cap for the reserve ratio, leaving the FDIC free to set this cap going forward. Losses in the value of investments in entities that the Corporation does not control could have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition or results of operations. The corporation has investments in entities that it does not control, including a 35% subordinated ownership interest in CPG/GS PR NPL, LLC (“CPG/GS”), organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, which is majority owned by PRLP Ventures LLC (“PRLP”), a company created by Goldman Sachs and Co. and Caribbean Property Group. CPG/GS is seeking to maximize the recovery of its investment in loans that it acquired from FirstBank. The Corporation’s 35% interest in CPG/GS is subordinated to the interest of the majority investor in CPG/GS, which is entitled to recover its investment and receive a priority 12% return on its invested capital. The Corporation’s equity interest of $24.0 million is also subordinated to the aggregate amount of its loans to CPG/GS in the amount of $79.5 million as of December 31, 2012. Therefore, the Corporation will not receive any return on its $24.0 million investment until PRLP receives an aggregate amount equivalent to its initial investment and a priority return of at least 12%, resulting in FirstBank’s interest in CPG/GS being subordinated to PRLP’s interest. The Corporation’s interests in CPG/GS and other entities that it does not control preclude it from exercising control over the business strategy or other operational aspects of these entities. The Corporation’s investment in this unconsolidated entity is considered significant under Rule 3-09 of Regulation S-X requiring the filing of full financial statements of the investee for the year ended December 31, 2012. The Corporation cannot provide assurance that these entities will operate in a manner that will increase the value of the Corporation’s investments, that the Corporation’s proportionate share of income or losses from these entities will continue at the current level in the future or that the Corporation will not incur losses from the holding of such investments. Losses in the values of such investments could adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations. In addition, the Corporation cannot provide assurance of compliance with the timely filing of financial statements of equity investees, if required. We may not be able to recover all assets pledged to Lehman Brothers Special Financing, Inc. Lehman Brothers Special Financing, Inc. (“Lehman”) was the counterparty to the Corporation on certain interest rate swap agreements. During the third quarter of 2008, Lehman failed to pay the scheduled net cash settlement due to the Corporation, which constituted an event of default under those interest rate swap agreements. The Corporation terminated all interest rate swaps with Lehman and replaced them with other counterparties under similar terms and conditions. In connection with the unpaid net cash settlement under the swap agreements, the Corporation has an unsecured counterparty exposure with Lehman, which filed for bankruptcy on October 3, 2008, of approximately $1.4 million. This exposure was reserved in the third quarter of 2008. The Corporation had pledged collateral with a $63.6 million face value to guarantee its performance under the swap agreements in the event payment thereunder was required. Since the second quarter of 2009, the Corporation has maintained a non-performing asset with a book value of $64.5 million in addition to accrued interest of $2.1 million related to the collateral pledged with Lehman. The Corporation believes that the securities pledged as collateral should not be part of the Lehman bankruptcy estate given the fact that the posted collateral constituted a performance guarantee under the swap agreements and was not part of a financing agreement, and that ownership of the securities was never transferred to Lehman. Upon termination of the interest rate swap agreements, Lehman’s obligation was to return the collateral to the Corporation. During the fourth quarter of 2009, the Corporation discovered that Lehman Brothers, Inc., acting as agent of Lehman, had deposited the securities in a custodial account at JP Morgan Chase, and that, shortly before the filing of the Lehman bankruptcy proceedings, it had provided instructions to have most of the securities transferred to Barclays Capital (“Barclays”) in New York. After Barclays’s refusal to turn over the securities, the Corporation filed a lawsuit against Barclays in federal court in New York demanding the return of the securities 37 Table of Contents in December 2009. During February 2010, Barclays filed a motion with the court requesting that the Corporation’s claim be dismissed on the grounds that the allegations of the complaint are not sufficient to justify the granting of the remedies therein sought. Shortly thereafter, the Corporation filed its opposition motion. A hearing on the motions was held in court on April 28, 2010. The court, on that date, after hearing the arguments by both sides, concluded that the Corporation’s equitable-based causes of action, upon which the return of the investment securities is being demanded, contain allegations that sufficiently plead facts warranting the denial of Barclays’ motion to dismiss the Corporation’s claim. Accordingly, the judge ordered the case to proceed to trial. Subsequent to the court decision, the district court judge transferred the case to the Lehman bankruptcy court for trial. Discovery pursuant to that case management plan has been completed. The parties filed dispositive motions on September 13, 2012. Oppositions to such motions and replies thereto were filed in October 2012 and November 2012, respectively. On January 16, 2013 a hearing for oral arguments was held in bankruptcy court. Upon conclusion of the hearing, the judge informed the parties that the matter would be taken under advisement with a written ruling to be issued subsequently. The Corporation may not succeed in its litigation against Barclays to recover all or a substantial portion of the securities. Additionally, the Corporation continues to pursue its claim filed in January 2009 in the proceedings under the Securities Protection Act with regard to Lehman Brothers Incorporated in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. Because the Corporation has not had the benefit of the use of the investment securities pledged to Lehman (i.e., ability to sell, pledge, or transfer), and because the Corporation has not received principal or interest payments since 2008 (after the collapse of Lehman), the appropriate carrying value of these securities has been under review with our regulators, with recent heightened concern due to the complex and lengthy litigation regarding this matter. If, as a result of these discussions, developments in the litigation, or for other reasons, the Corporation should determine that it is probable that the asset has been impaired and that it needs to recognize a partial or full loss for the investment securities pledged to Lehman, such an action would adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations in the period in which such action is taken. The Corporation expects to reassess the recoverability of the asset upon the resolution of the dispositive motions filed with the court. Our businesses may be adversely affected by litigation. From time to time, our customers, or the government on their behalf, may make claims and take legal action relating to our performance of fiduciary or contractual responsibilities. We may also face employment lawsuits or other legal claims. In any such claims or actions, demands for substantial monetary damages may be asserted against us resulting in financial liability or an adverse effect on our reputation among investors or on customer demand for our products and services. We may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure to litigation risk when we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies. As a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements or judgments may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In the ordinary course of our business, we are also subject to various regulatory, governmental and law enforcement inquiries, investigations and subpoenas. These may be directed generally to participants in the businesses in which we are involved or may be specifically directed at us. In regulatory enforcement matters, claims for disgorgement, the imposition of penalties and the imposition of other remedial sanctions are possible. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. The resolution of legal actions or regulatory matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations for the quarter in which such actions or matters are resolved or a reserve is established. 38 Table of Contents Our businesses may be negatively affected by adverse publicity or other reputational harm. Our relationships with many of our customers are predicated upon our reputation as a fiduciary and a service provider that adheres to the highest standards of ethics, service quality and regulatory compliance. Adverse publicity, regulatory actions, like the Regulatory Agreements, litigation, operational failures, the failure to meet customer expectations and other issues with respect to one or more of our businesses could materially and adversely affect our reputation, or our ability to attract and retain customers or obtain sources of funding for the same or other businesses. Preserving and enhancing our reputation also depends on maintaining systems and procedures that address known risks and regulatory requirements, as well as our ability to identify and mitigate additional risks that arise due to changes in our businesses, the market places in which we operate, the regulatory environment and customer expectations. If any of these developments has a material adverse effect on our reputation, our business will suffer. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. Our financial statements are subject to the application of U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), which are periodically revised and expanded. Accordingly, from time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to promulgate new requirements that further interpret or seek to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions as well as to revise standards to expand disclosures. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in footnotes to our financial statements, which are incorporated herein by reference. An assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting standards that we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may adversely affect our operating results. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under GAAP, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of the goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in the industry. The goodwill impairment evaluation process requires us to make estimates and assumptions with regards to the fair value of our reporting units. Actual values may differ significantly from these estimates. Such differences could result in future impairment of goodwill that would, in turn, negatively impact our results of operations and the reporting unit where the goodwill is recorded. We conducted our 2012 evaluation of goodwill during the fourth quarter of 2012. The Step 1 evaluation of goodwill allocated to the Florida reporting unit under both valuation approaches (market and discounted cash flow analysis) indicated that the fair value of the unit was above the carrying amount of its equity book value as of the valuation date (October 1), which meant that Step 2 was not undertaken. Based on the analysis under both the income and market approaches, the estimated fair value of equity of the reporting unit was $181.5 million, which is above the carrying amount of the entity, including goodwill, which approximated $160.4 million. Goodwill with a carrying value of $28.1 million was not impaired as of December 31, 2012 or 2011, nor was any goodwill written off due to impairment during 2012, 2011, and 2010. If we are required to record a charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements because an impairment of the goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 39 Table of Contents The Corporation’s judgments regarding accounting policies and the resolution of tax disputes may impact the Corporation’s earnings and cash flow. Significant judgment is required in determining the Corporation’s effective tax rate and in evaluating its tax positions. The Corporation provides for uncertain tax positions when such tax positions do not meet the recognition thresholds or measurement criteria prescribed by applicable GAAP. Fluctuations in federal, state, local and foreign taxes or a change to uncertain tax positions, including related interest and penalties, may impact the Corporation’s effective tax rate. When particular tax matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. In addition, tax positions may be challenged by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and the tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate and we may estimate and provide for potential liabilities that may arise out of tax audits to the extent that uncertain tax positions fail to meet the recognition standard under applicable GAAP. Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter could increase the effective tax rate and could result in a material increase in our tax expense. Resolution of a tax issue may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. With respect to FirstBank, the years 2007 through 2009 have been examined by the IRS and disputed issues have been taken to administrative appeals. Although the timing of the resolution and/or closure of audits is highly uncertain, the Corporation believes it is reasonably possible that the IRS will conclude the audit of years 2007 through 2009 within the next twelve months. If any issues addressed in this audit are resolved in a manner not consistent with the Corporation’s expectations, the Corporation could be required to adjust its provision for income taxes in the period in which such resolution occurs. The Corporation currently cannot reasonably estimate a range of possible changes to existing reserves. We must respond to rapid technological changes, and these changes may be more difficult or expensive than anticipated. If competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing product and service offerings, technology and systems may become obsolete. Further, if we fail to adopt or develop new technologies or to adapt our products and services to emerging industry standards, we may lose current and future customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is changing rapidly and, in order to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. These changes may be more difficult or expensive than we anticipate. RISKS RELATING TO THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND OUR INDUSTRY Difficult market conditions have affected the financial industry and may adversely affect us in the future. Given that most of our business is in Puerto Rico and the United States and given the degree of interrelation between Puerto Rico’s economy and that of the United States, we are exposed to downturns in the U.S. economy. Continued high levels of unemployment and underemployment in the United States and depressed real estate valuations have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans, credit default swaps and other derivatives, and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial banks and investment banks. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital from private and government entities, merge with larger and stronger financial institutions and, in some cases, fail. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and other financial institutions. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite the loans become less predictive of future behaviors. 40 Table of Contents • The models used to estimate losses inherent in the credit exposure require difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of the borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation and which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the models. • Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in sales of mortgage loans to third parties (including mortgage loan securitization transactions with government-sponsored entities and repurchase agreements) on favorable terms, or at all, could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including deteriorating investor expectations. • Competitive dynamics in the industry could change as a result of consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. • We may be unable to comply with the Regulatory Agreements, which could result in further regulatory enforcement actions. • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • There may be downward pressure on our stock price. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, our ability to access capital and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Continuation of the economic slowdown and decline in the real estate market in the U.S. mainland and in Puerto Rico could continue to harm our results of operations. The residential mortgage loan origination business has historically been cyclical, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of shrinking volumes and industry-wide losses. The market for residential mortgage loan originations has declined over the past few years and this trend may continue to reduce the level of mortgage loans we produce in the future and adversely affect our business. During periods of rising interest rates, the refinancing of many mortgage products tends to decrease as the economic incentives for borrowers to refinance their existing mortgage loans are reduced. In addition, the residential mortgage loan origination business is impacted by home values. Over the past few years, residential real estate values in many areas of the U.S. and Puerto Rico have decreased significantly, which has led to lower volumes and higher losses across the industry, adversely impacting our mortgage business. The actual rates of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on loans have been higher during the economic slowdown. Rising unemployment, lower interest rates and declines in housing prices have had a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to repay their mortgage loans. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could continue to harm our ability to sell loans, the prices we receive for loans, the values of mortgage loans held for sale or residual interests in securitizations, which could continue to harm our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any additional material decline in real estate values would further weaken the collateral loan-to-value ratios and increase the possibility of loss if a borrower defaults. In such event, we will be subject to the risk of loss on such real estate arising from borrower defaults to the extent not covered by third-party credit enhancement. Our credit quality may be adversely affected by Puerto Rico’s current economic condition. A significant portion of our financial activities and credit exposure is concentrated in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, which has been in a recession since March 2006. Based on the first six months of fiscal year 2012-2013, the main economic indicators suggest that the Puerto Rico economy remains weak. Except for cement sales, retail sales and revenues from the sales tax, most of the indicators, particularly employment, show that the economy is in a state of low productivity. Until October 2012, the Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico’s Economic Activity Index showed a weakness compared to previous months. 41 Table of Contents The government of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico has been addressing the fiscal deficit, which, in 2009, was estimated at approximately $3.3 billion or over 30% of its annual budget The Government has implemented a multi- year budget plan for reducing the deficit, as its access to the municipal bond market and its credit ratings depend, in part, on achieving a balanced budget. Some of the measures implemented by the government include reducing expenses including public-sector employment expenses through employee layoffs, attrition, early retirement plans, and debt restructurings. Since the government is an important source of employment in Puerto Rico, these measures had a temporary adverse effect on the island’s already weak economy. Despite the adverse effects, the government continues evaluating alternatives to decrease the general fund fiscal budget deficit, which, for fiscal year 2012-2013, was estimated at $1.1 billion. The Puerto Rico Labor Department reported an unemployment rate of 13.8% for the month of November 2012, a rate lower than the 14.2% for the month of May 2012, and the 15.5% for September 2011. The economy of Puerto Rico is very sensitive to the price of oil in the global market since it does not have a significant mass transit system available to the public and most of its electricity is powered by oil, making it highly sensitive to fluctuations in oil prices. A substantial increase in the price of oil could impact adversely the economy by reducing disposable income and increasing the operating costs of most businesses and government. Consumer spending is particularly sensitive to wide fluctuations in oil prices. The decline in Puerto Rico’s economy since 2006 has resulted in, among other things, a downturn in our loan originations, an increase in the level of our non-performing assets, loan loss provisions and charge-offs, particularly in our construction and commercial loan portfolios, an increase in the rate of foreclosure loss on mortgage loans, and a reduction in the value of our loan portfolio, all of which have adversely affected our profitability. If a decline in economic activity continues, there could be further adverse effects on our profitability. Moody’s Investor Services (“Moody’s”) announced a downgrade on July 18, 2012 with respect to the Puerto Rico Sales Tax Financing Corporation’s (COFINA) outstanding senior sales tax revenues bonds and outstanding subordinate tax revenue bonds, which were downgraded to Aa3 from Aa2 and A3 from A1, respectively. The downgrade responds to Moody’s concern regarding the escalating debt service and a lack of adequate sales tax revenue growth, which could ultimately lead to a decrease in coverage. On December 13, 2012, Moody’s downgraded the general obligation (GO) rating of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico to Baa3 from Baa1 with a negative outlook. Moody’s based its decision on the fact that economic growth prospects in Puerto Rico remain weak after six years of recession and could be further dampened by Puerto Rico’s efforts to control spending and reform its retirement system, debt levels are very high and continue to grow, financial performance has been weak and there is no clear timetable for pension reform. On February 21, 2013, Fitch Ratings placed Puerto Rico’s BBB+ debt rating on Rating Watch Negative. Fitch also put on negative watch the Puerto Rico Building Authority government facilities revenue bonds guaranteed by the Commonwealth; the Puerto Rico Aqueduct and Sewer Authority (PRASA) Commonwealth guaranty revenue bonds; and Employees Retirement System of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico pension funding bonds. The Rating Watch Negative reflects Fitch’s expectation of a significant increase in the Commonwealth’s estimated operating imbalance for the current and coming fiscal years, based on reported revenue results through the first half of the current fiscal year and public statements by the new administration. On March 13, 2013, Standard and Poor’s (S&P) downgraded its general obligation rating of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico to BBB-, one step from junk status, with a negative outlook. S&P based the decision on the result of an estimated fiscal 2013 budget gap, which S&P views as significantly larger than originally budgeted, and S&P concerns that the shortfalls against budget in fiscal 2013 will make it difficult for the Commonwealth to achieve structural balance in the next two years. 42 Table of Contents The failure of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by future failures of financial institutions and the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to different industries and counterparties and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, investment companies and other institutional clients. In certain of these transactions, we are required to post collateral to secure the obligations to the counterparties. In the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding involving one of such counterparties, we may experience delays in recovering the assets posted as collateral as we have with the investment securities posted as collateral for a Lehman interest rate swap agreement, or we may incur a loss to the extent that the counterparty was holding collateral in excess of the obligation to such counterparty. In addition, many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by our counterparty or client. In addition, the credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. Any losses resulting from our routine funding transactions may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may increase our costs and impact our business, governance structure, financial condition or results of operations. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation by multiple regulatory bodies. These regulations may affect the manner and terms of delivery of our services. If we do not comply with governmental regulations, we may be subject to fines, penalties, lawsuits or material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which may adversely affect our business operations. Changes in these regulations can significantly affect the services that we are asked to provide as well as our costs of compliance with such regulations. In addition, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to attract and retain customers. The financial crisis resulted in government regulatory agencies and political bodies placing increased focus and scrutiny on the financial services industry. The U.S. government intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding by temporarily enhancing the liquidity support available to financial institutions, establishing a commercial paper funding facility, temporarily guaranteeing money market funds and certain types of debt issuances and increasing insurance on bank deposits. These programs have subjected financial institutions, particularly those participating in TARP, to additional restrictions, oversight and costs. In addition, new proposals for legislation are periodically introduced in the U.S. Congress that could further substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry, impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices, including in the areas of interest rates, financial product offerings and disclosures, and have an effect on bankruptcy proceedings with respect to consumer residential real estate mortgages, among other things. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. In recent years, regulatory oversight and enforcement have increased substantially, imposing additional costs and increasing the potential risks associated with our operations. If these regulatory trends continue, they could adversely affect our business and, in turn, our consolidated results of operations. Financial services legislation and regulatory reforms may have a significant impact on our business and results of operations and on our credit ratings. We face increased regulation and regulatory scrutiny as a result of our participation in the TARP. On July 20, 2010, we issued shares of the Series G Preferred Stock to the Treasury in exchange for the shares of 43 Table of Contents Series F Preferred Stock, we sold to the Treasury in 2009, plus accrued and unpaid dividends pursuant to an exchange agreement with the Treasury dated as of July 7, 2010, as amended (the “Exchange Agreement”). We also issued to the Treasury the Warrant, which amends, restates and replaces the original Warrant that we issued to the Treasury in January 2009 under the TARP. On October 7, 2011, we issued 32,941,797 shares of common stock to the Treasury upon conversion of all of the Series G Preferred Stock. Our participation in TARP also imposes limitations on the payments we may make to our senior leaders. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changed the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act includes, and the regulations developed and to be developed thereunder include or will include, provisions affecting large and small financial institutions alike. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, imposes capital requirements on bank holding companies; changes the base for FDIC insurance assessments to a bank’s average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, rather than upon its deposit base, and permanently raises the current standard deposit insurance limit to $250,000; and expands the FDIC’s authority to raise insurance premiums. The legislation also calls for the FDIC to raise the ratio of reserves to deposits from 1.15% to 1.35% for deposit insurance purposes by September 30, 2020 and to “offset the effect” of increased assessments on insured depository institutions with assets of less than $10 billion. The Dodd-Frank Act also limits interchange fees payable on debit card transactions, established the CFBP as an independent entity within the Federal Reserve Board and contains provisions on mortgage-related matters such as steering incentives, determinations as to a borrower’s ability to repay and prepayment penalties. The CFPB has broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority over FirstBank and its affiliates with respect to consumer financial products and services, including deposit products, residential mortgages, home-equity loans and credit cards they offer. In July 2011, the CFPB advised us and other banks deemed to be “large banks” under the Dodd-Frank Act as to the agency’s approach to supervision and examination, which began on July 21, 2011. The CFPB supervision and examination approach will be guided toward protecting consumers and compliance with federal consumer financial protection laws. On January 10, 2013, the CFPB issued a final rule which, among other things, sets forth criteria for defining a “qualified mortgage” for purposes of the Truth in Lending Act, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, and outlines certain minimum requirements for mortgage lenders to determine whether a consumer has the ability to repay the mortgage. This rule also affords safe harbor legal protections for lenders making qualified loans that are not “higher priced.” It is unclear how this rule, or this rule in tandem with an anticipated final rule to be issued jointly by other regulators defining “qualified residential mortgage” and setting credit risk retention standards for loans that are to be packaged and sold as securities, will affect the mortgage lending market by potentially curbing competition, increasing costs or tightening credit availability. On January 17, 2013, the CFPB issued final regulations containing new mortgage servicing rules that will take effect in January 2014 and be applicable to FirstBank. The announced goal of the CFPB is to bring greater consumer protection to the mortgage servicing market. These changes will affect notices to be given to consumers as to billing and payoff statements, delinquency, foreclosure alternatives, loss mitigation applications, interest rate adjustments and options for avoiding “force-placed” insurance. Servicers will be prohibited from processing foreclosures when a loan modification is pending, and must wait until a loan is more than 120 days delinquent before initiating a foreclosure action. The servicer must provide delinquent borrowers with direct and ongoing access to personnel, and provide prompt review of any loss mitigation application. Servicers must maintain accurate and accessible mortgage records for the life of a loan and until one year after the loan is paid off or transferred. Servicers will be required to establish servicing policies and procedures designed to achieve the objectives of the rules. These new standards are expected to add to the cost of conducting a mortgage servicing business. 44 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act also includes provisions that affect corporate governance and executive compensation at all publicly-traded companies and allows financial institutions to pay interest on business checking accounts. The legislation also restricts proprietary trading, places restrictions on the owning or sponsoring of hedge and private equity funds, and regulates the derivatives activities of banks and their affiliates. The Collins Amendment in the Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, requires the federal banking agencies to establish minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements that will apply to both insured banks and their holding companies. Regulations implementing the Collins Amendment became effective on July 28, 2011 and set as a floor for the capital requirements of the Corporation and FirstBank a minimum capital requirement computed using the FDIC’s general risk-based capital rules. On June 12, 2012, the federal banking agencies issued three notices of proposed rulemaking (NPRs) that would revise current capital rules. The two discussed herein are applicable to the Bank and Corporation. The first, “Regulatory Capital Rules: Regulatory Capital, Implementation of Basel III, Minimum Regulatory Capital Ratios, Capital Adequacy, Transition Provisions and Prompt Corrective Action” applies to both the Bank and the Corporation. If adopted, this NPR would increase the quantity and quality of capital required by providing for a new minimum common equity Tier I ratio of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets and a common equity Tier I capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets. This first NPR would also revise the definition of capital to improve the ability of regulatory capital instruments to absorb losses and establish limitations on capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments if additional specified amounts, or “buffers”, of common equity Tier I capital are not met, and would introduce a supplementary leverage ratio for internationally active banking organizations. This NPR would also establish a more conservative standard for including an instrument such as trust preferred securities as Tier I capital for bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $15 billion or more as of December 31, 2009, setting out a phase-out schedule for such instruments beginning in January 2013. Under the first NPR, the Corporation will phase out its inclusion in Tier 1 Capital of trust preferred securities in the amount of $225 million beginning with a 25 percent exclusion starting on January 1, 2013, to full exclusion on January 1, 2016 and thereafter. The second NPR, “Regulatory Capital Rules: Standardized Approach for Risk-Weighted Assets; Market Discipline and Disclosure Requirements,” would also apply to both the Bank and the Corporation. This NPR would revise and harmonize the bank regulators’ rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to enhance risk sensitivity and address weaknesses that have been identified recently. These changes to the risk-weighted assets calculation would be effective from January 1, 2015 and would likely lead to an increase in our risk-weighted assets, which in some cases could be significant. Based on our current interpretation of the proposed Basel III capital rules we anticipate exceeding the minimum capital ratios established in the current proposal. On November 9, 2012, the federal banking agencies announced that none of the three NPRs they issued in June 2012 would become effective on January 1, 2013. The federal banking agencies did not specify new effective dates for the NPRs. The federal banking agencies also issued on June 12, 2012 the final market risk capital rule that was proposed in 2011. The final rule, effective on January 1, 2013, amends the calculation of market risk to better characterize the risks facing a particular institution and to help ensure the adequacy of capital related to the institution’s market risk-related positions. It establishes more explicit eligibility criteria than existing market risk capital rules for positions that receive market risk capital treatment, sets requirements for prudent valuations, robust stress testing and the control, oversight and validation mechanisms for models. It applies to a banking organization with aggregate trading assets and trading liabilities equal to 10% or more of quarter-end total assets, or aggregate trading assets and liabilities equal to $1 billion or more; therefore, these rules will not be applicable to the Bank and the Corporation, based on our assets at this time. On June 29, 2011, the Federal Reserve Board approved a final debit card interchange rule that caps a debit card issuer’s base fee at 21 cents per transaction and allows an additional 5-basis point charge per transaction to help cover fraud losses. The rule became fully operational on October 1, 2011. The debit card interchange rule 45 Table of Contents reduced our interchange fee revenue in line with industry-wide expectations, beginning with the quarter ended December 31, 2011. The new pricing restriction negatively impacted our fee income by approximately $2.0 million in 2012. The Federal Reserve Board in December 2011 issued an NPR to implement the enhanced prudential standards and early remediation requirements established under the Dodd-Frank Act. The December 2011 proposal would require all bank holding companies and state member banks with more than $10 billion in total consolidated assets, such as the Corporation, to comply with the requirements to conduct annual company-run stress tests beginning on the effective date of the final rule. On October 9, 2012, the Federal Reserve Board issued a final rule that generally requires bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of between $10 billion and $50 billion to comply with annual stress testing requirements beginning in September 2013. On January 17, 2012, the FDIC proposed a new regulation that would require state non-member banks with total assets of more than $10 billion, such as FirstBank, to conduct annual company-run stress tests. The proposed regulation, required by the Dodd-Frank Act, will require FirstBank to provide the FDIC with forward-looking information to assist the FDIC in its overall assessment of its capital adequacy, helping to better identify potential downside risks and the potential impact of adverse outcomes on its financial stability. On October 9, 2012, the FDIC issued a final rule that generally requires state non-member banks with total consolidated assets of between $10 billion and $50 billion to comply with annual stress testing requirements beginning in September 2013. In May 2012, the federal banking agencies issued final supervisory guidance for stress testing practices applicable to banking organizations with more than $10 billion in total consolidated assets, such as FirstBank and the Corporation, which became effective on July 23, 2012. This guidance outlines general principles for a satisfactory stress testing framework and describes various stress testing approaches and how stress testing should be used at various levels within an organization. The guidance does not implement the aforementioned stress testing requirements in the Dodd-Frank Act or in the Federal Reserve Board’s capital plan rule that apply to certain companies, as those requirements have been or are being implemented through separate rulemaking by the respective agencies. These provisions, or any other aspects of current or proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial services industry, may impact the profitability of our business activities or change certain of our business practices, including the ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads, and could expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes to operations in order to comply, and could therefore also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are to be phased in over a period of time. The ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on the financial services industry in general, and us in particular, may be adverse. The U.S. Congress has also adopted additional consumer protection laws such as the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009, and the Federal Reserve Board has adopted numerous new regulations addressing banks’ credit card, overdraft and mortgage lending practices. Additional consumer protection legislation and regulatory activity is anticipated in the near future. Internationally, both the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the Financial Stability Board (established in April 2009 by the Group of Twenty Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors to take action to strengthen regulation and supervision of the financial system with greater international consistency, cooperation and transparency) have committed to raise capital standards and liquidity buffers within the banking system. On September 12, 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision agreed to the calibration and phase-in of the Basel III minimum capital requirements (raising the minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio to 4.5% and minimum Tier 1 equity ratio to 6.0%, with full implementation by January 2015) and the introduction 46 Table of Contents of a capital conservation buffer of common equity of an additional 2.5% with implementation by January 2019. U.S. regulators proposed regulations for implementing Basel III on June 12, 2012 (see discussion above). On September 28, 2011, the Basel Committee announced plans to consider adjustments to the final liquidity charge to be imposed under Basel III, which liquidity charge would take effect on January 1, 2015. The liquidity coverage ratio being considered would require banks to maintain an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets sufficient to meet liquidity needs for a 30 calendar day liquidity stress period. On January 6, 2013, the Basel Committee announced that its liquidity coverage ratio would be phased-in annually beginning on January 1, 2015, when the minimum liquidity coverage ratio requirement would be set at 60%, then increasing an additional 10% annually until fully implemented on January 1, 2019. The Basel Committee also announced that a broader pool of assets would count as high-quality liquid assets, the numerator of the liquidity coverage ratio. Such proposals and legislation, if finally adopted, would change banking laws and our operating environment and that of our subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways. The ultimate effect that such proposals and legislation, if enacted, or regulations issued to implement the same, would have upon our financial condition or results of operations may be adverse. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, our earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board. An important function of the Federal Reserve Board is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve Board to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adverse. RISKS RELATING TO AN INVESTMENT IN THE CORPORATION’S COMMON AND PREFERRED STOCK Sales in the public market under an outstanding resale registration statement filed with the SEC by the small group of large stockholders that hold in the aggregate approximately 65.65% of our outstanding shares could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The following stockholders individually own more than 10% of our outstanding shares of common stock, or an aggregate of approximately 65.65% of our outstanding shares of common stock: funds affiliated with Thomas H. Lee Partners, L.P. (“THL”), which own approximately 24.58%; funds managed by Oaktree Capital Management, L.P (“Oaktree”), which own approximately 24.58%; and Treasury which owns approximately 16.49% including the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrant. We are obligated to keep the prospectus, which is part of the resale registration statement, current so that the securities be sold in the public market at any time. The resale of the securities in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Issuance of additional equity securities in the public market and other capital management or business strategies that we may pursue also depress the market price of our common stock and could result in dilution of holders of our common stock and preferred stock. Generally, we are not restricted from issuing additional equity securities, including common stock. We may choose or be required in the future to identify, consider and pursue additional capital management strategies to 47 Table of Contents bolster our capital position. We may issue equity securities (including convertible securities, preferred securities, and options and warrants on our common or preferred stock securities) in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, to adjust our leverage ratio, to address regulatory capital concerns, to restructure currently outstanding debt or equity securities or to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants. Future issuances of our equity securities, including common stock, in any transaction that we may pursue may dilute the interests of our existing holders of our common stock and preferred stock and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The Corporation has outstanding a Warrant held by the Treasury to purchase 1,285,899 shares of common stock. If the Warrant is exercised, the issuance of shares of Common Stock would reduce our income per share, and further reduce the book value per share and voting power of our current common stockholders. Additionally, THL, Oaktree and funds advised by Wellington Management Company, LLP (“Wellington”) have anti-dilution rights, which they acquired when they purchased shares of common stock in the $525 million capital raise, completed in October 2011, that will be triggered, subject to certain exceptions, if we issue additional shares of common stock. In such a case, THL, Oaktree and Wellington will have the right to acquire the amount of shares of common stock that will enable them to maintain their percentage ownership interest in the Corporation. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations and volatility. The stock markets have experienced high levels of volatility during the last few years. These market fluctuations have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations and volatility because of factors specifically related to our businesses and may continue to fluctuate or decline. Factors that could cause fluctuations, volatility or a decline in the market price of our common stock, many of which could be beyond our control, include the following: • our ability to comply with the Regulatory Agreements; • any additional regulatory actions against us; • changes or perceived changes in the condition, operations, results or prospects of our businesses and market assessments of these changes or perceived changes; • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors, including any failures of banks; • changes in governmental regulations or proposals, or new governmental regulations or proposals, affecting us, including those relating to the financial crisis and global economic downturn and those that may be specifically directed to us; • a continuing recession in the Puerto Rico market and a lack of growth in our other principal markets in the Virgin Islands and the United States; • the departure of key employees; • changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us; and • the public perception of the banking industry and its safety and soundness. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NYSE and the market for commercial banks and other financial services companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that 48 Table of Contents sometimes have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. Our suspension of dividends may have adversely affected and may further adversely affect our stock price and could result in the expansion of our Board of Directors. In March 2009, the Federal Reserve Board issued a supervisory guidance letter intended to provide direction to bank holding companies (“BHCs”) on the declaration and payment of dividends, capital redemptions and capital repurchases by BHCs in the context of their capital planning process. The letter reiterates the long-standing Federal Reserve Board supervisory policies and guidance to the effect that BHCs should only pay dividends from current earnings. More specifically, the letter heightens expectations that BHCs will inform and consult with the Federal Reserve Board supervisory staff on the declaration and payment of dividends that exceed earnings for the period for which a dividend is being paid. In consideration of the financial results reported for the second quarter ended June 30, 2009, we decided, as a matter of prudent fiscal management and following the Federal Reserve Board guidance, to suspend the payment of dividends. Furthermore, our Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve Board precludes us from declaring any dividends without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. We cannot anticipate if and when the payment of dividends might be reinstated. This suspension may have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our stock price. Further, because dividends on our Series A through E Preferred Stock have not been paid since we suspended dividend payments in August 2009, the holders of the preferred stock have the right to appoint two additional members to our Board of Directors. Any member of the Board of Directors appointed by the holders of Series A through E Preferred Stock is required to vacate his or her office if the Corporation returns to payment of dividends in full for twelve consecutive monthly dividend periods. If the certificates of designation for the Series A through E Preferred Stock are amended to remove the right to appoint members of the Board of Directors, the removal of this right may adversely affect the stock price of the Series A through E Preferred Stock given that this right is a typical right of holders of preferred stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 