Risk Factors Certain risk factors that may affect the Corporation’s future results of operations are discussed below. Risks Relating to the 2004 Restatement Process First BanCorp is subject to the ongoing regulatory investigation by the SEC On August 25, 2005, the Corporation announced the receipt of a letter from the SEC in which the SEC indicated that it was conducting an informal inquiry of, among other things, the Corporation’s accounting for mortgage loans purchased by the Corporation from two other financial institutions during the calendar years 1999 through 2004. On October 21, 2005, the Corporation announced that the SEC had issued a formal order of investigation into the accounting for the mortgage–related transactions with Doral and R&G. First BanCorp has been engaged in discussions with the staff of the SEC regarding a possible resolution to its investigation of the Corporation’s restatement, and has accrued $8.5 million in its consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 in connection with a potential settlement of the SEC’s investigation of the Corporation. Any settlement is subject to the approval of the SEC. There can be no assurance that the Corporation’s efforts to resolve the SEC’s investigation with respect to the Corporation will be successful, or that the amount accrued will be sufficient, and the Corporation cannot predict at this time the timing or final terms of any settlement. Settlement of pending litigation may not be approved As a consequence of the accounting review and restatement, the Corporation is subject to pending class-action proceedings (refer to “Significant Events” above). Following the announcement of the Audit Committee’s review, the Corporation and certain of its officers and directors and former officers and directors were named as defendants in five separate securities class actions filed between October 31, 2005 and December 5, 2005, alleging violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All securities class actions were consolidated into one case named “In Re: First BanCorp Securities Litigations”. During the first quarter of 2007, the Corporation reached an agreement in principle and signed a memorandum of understanding to settle all claims with the lead plaintiffs in the shareholder class action. Under the terms of the settlement, which is subject to final approval by the United States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico, First BanCorp will pay the plaintiffs $74.25 million. The Corporation accrued $74.25 million in its consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 in connection with a potential settlement. No assurance can be given that the Court will approve the settlement. Banking regulators could take adverse action against the Corporation or its banking subsidiaries as a result of the Consent Orders The Corporation is subject to supervision and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The Corporation is a bank holding company that qualifies as a financial holding corporation. As such, the Corporation is permitted to engage in a broader spectrum of activities than those permitted to bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. To continue to qualify as a financial holding corporation, each of the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries must continue to qualify as “well-capitalized” and “well-managed.” As of December 31, 2006, the Corporation and its banking subsidiaries continue to satisfy all applicable capital guidelines. This, however, does not prevent banking regulators from taking adverse actions against the Corporation or its banking subsidiaries as a result of the Consent Orders or related internal control matters. If the Corporation were not to continue to qualify as a financial holding corporation, it might be required to discontinue certain activities and may be prohibited from engaging in new activities without prior regulatory approval. Federal banking regulators, in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties, have significant discretion and power to initiate enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. Failure of the Corporation or FirstBank to remain in compliance with the terms of the Consent Orders could result in the imposition of additional cease and desist orders and/or in monetary penalties. Downgrades in the Corporation’s credit ratings could potentially increase the cost of borrowing funds Following the Corporation’s announcement on October 21, 2005 that the SEC had issued a formal order of investigation, the major rating agencies downgraded the Corporation’s and FirstBank’s ratings in a series of actions. Fitch Ratings, Ltd. lowered the Corporation’s long-term senior debt rating from BBB- to BB and placed the rating on Rating Watch Negative. Standard & Poors lowered the long-term senior debt and counterparty rating of FirstBank from BBB- to BB+ and placed the rating on Credit Watch Negative. Moody’s Investor Service lowered FirstBank’s long-term senior debt rating from Baa3 to 25 Table of Contents Ba1 and placed the rating on negative outlook. These or further downgrades may adversely affect the Corporation’s and FirstBank’s ability to access capital and will likely result in more stringent covenants and higher interest rates under the terms of any future indebtedness. These debt and financial strength ratings are current opinions of the rating agencies. As such, they may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies as a result of changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances. The Corporation’s liquidity is contingent upon its ability to obtain external sources of funding to finance its operations. Downgrades in credit ratings can hinder the Corporation’s access to external funding and/or cause external funding to be more expensive, which could in turn adversely affect the results of operations. There is a lack of public disclosure concerning the Corporation The Corporation has not yet filed with the SEC its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2005, September 30, 2005, March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006, September 30, 2006 and March 31, 2007 or the interim financial information required by those reports. In addition, it needs to file an Amended quarterly report in Form 10-Q for fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2005 or the restated interim financial information required by that report. The Corporation expects to file these reports or the financial information required by these reports as soon as practicable after the filing of this Form 10-K. Until the Corporation files this financial information, there will be limited public information available concerning the Corporation’s most recent interim results of operations. The Corporation’s delay in filing all required financial statements may adversely affect its ability to attract customers, investors and employees The Corporation’s ability to attract customers and investors may be adversely affected by its delay in filing all the required financial statements and the risks and uncertainties that delay may suggest. This delay may also have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s ability to attract and retain key employees and management personnel. Risks Relating to the Corporation’s Business Fluctuations in interest rates may impact the Corporation’s results of operations Increases in interest rates are the primary market risk affecting the Corporation. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, such as governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions that are beyond the control of the Corporation. Since the year 2004, interest rates have been increasing and this may negatively affect the following areas of the Corporation’s business: • The net interest income; • The value of owned securities, including interest rate swaps; and • the volume of loans originated, particularly mortgage loans. Increases in interest rates may reduce net interest income Increases in short-term interest rates may reduce net interest income, which is the principal component of the Corporation’s earnings. Net interest income is the difference between the amount received by the Corporation on its interest-earning assets and the interest paid by the Corporation on its interest-bearing liabilities. When interest rates rise, the Corporation must pay more in interest on its liabilities while the interest earned on its assets does not rise as quickly. This may cause the Corporation’s profits to decrease. Increases in interest rates may reduce the value of holdings of securities Fixed-rate securities entered into by the Corporation are generally subject to decreases in market value when interest rates rise, which would require recognition of a loss, thereby potentially affecting adversely the results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Increases in interest rates may reduce demand for mortgage and other loans Higher interest rates increase the cost of mortgage and other loans to consumers and businesses and may reduce demand for such loans, which may negatively impact the Corporation’s profits by reducing the amount of loan origination income. The Corporation is subject to default risk on loans, which may adversely affect its results The Corporation is subject to the risk of loss from loan defaults and foreclosures with respect to the loans it originates. The Corporation establishes a provision for loan losses, which leads to reductions in its income from operations, in order to maintain its allowance for inherent loan losses at a level which its management deems to be appropriate based upon an assessment of the quality of its loan portfolio. Although the Corporation’s management utilizes its best judgment in providing for loan losses, there can be no assurance that management has accurately estimated the level of inherent loan losses or that the Corporation will not have to increase its provision for loan losses in the future as a result of future increases in non performing loans or for other reasons beyond its control. Any such increases in the Corporation’s provision for loan losses or any loan losses in excess of its provision for loan losses would have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s future financial condition and results of operations. Given the difficulties that the Corporation’s largest borrowers have had, the Corporation can give no assurance that these borrowers, Doral and R&G Financial, will continue to repay their secured loans on a timely basis or that the Corporation will continue to be able to accurately assess any risk of loss from the loans to these financial institutions. The Corporation’s business concentration in Puerto Rico imposes risks The Corporation conducts its operations in a geographically concentrated area, as its main market is Puerto Rico. This imposes risks from lack of diversification in the geographical portfolio. The Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on the economic conditions of Puerto Rico, where adverse political or economic developments, natural disasters, etc. could affect the volume of loan originations, increase the level of nonperforming assets, increase the rate of foreclosure losses on loans, and reduce the value of the Corporation’s loans and loan servicing portfolio. These factors could materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the reclassification of purchases of mortgage loans, the Corporation had substantial secured loans to local financial institutions in the amount of $932.0 million and $3.7 billion as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. First BanCorp is subject to risks associated with the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico’s temporary budget crisis Due to a budget impasse, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico (the “Commonwealth”) closed all public agencies on May 1, 2006, except those related to safety, health and other essential services. All agencies were subsequently opened two weeks later and a budget approval by the Legislature was signed into law by the Governor, Aníbal Acevedo Vilá. Subsequently, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the Commonwealth’s general obligation bond rating to Baa3 from Baa2, and kept the rating on Watchlist for possible further downgrade. According to Moody’s, this action reflects the Commonwealth’s strained financial condition, and ongoing political conflict and lack of agreement regarding the measures necessary to end the government’s multi-year trend of financial deterioration. A fiscal reform has been recently approved, where the House and Senate approved a tax reform authorizing a 5.5% state sales tax and a 1.5% optional municipal tax, with the option, if expected revenues do not materialize, to raise it an additional 1% after December 2006. Nevertheless, significant budget deficits and fiscal imbalance could continue in the coming years. Any significant adverse political or economic developments in Puerto Rico resulting from the budget impasse could have a negative impact on the Corporation’s future financial condition and results of operations. Rating downgrades on the Government of Puerto Rico’s debt obligations may affect the Corporation’s credit exposure Even though Puerto Rico’s economy is closely integrated to that of the U.S. mainland and its government and many of its instrumentalities are investment-grade rated borrowers in the U.S. capital markets, the current fiscal situation of the Government of Puerto Rico has led nationally recognized rating agencies to downgrade its debt obligations. In May 2006, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the Government’s general obligation bond rating to Baa3 from Baa2, and put the credit on “watchlist” for possible further downgrades. The Commonwealth’s appropriation bonds and some of the subordinated revenue bonds were also downgraded by one notch and are now rated just below investment grade at Ba1. Moody’s commented that this action reflects the Government’s strained financial condition, the ongoing political conflict and lack of agreement regarding the measures necessary to end the government’s multi-year trend of financial deterioration. Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (“S&P”) still rates the Government’s general obligations two notches above junk at BBB, and the Commonwealth’s appropriation bonds and some of the subordinated revenue bonds BBB-, a category that continues to 27 Table of Contents be investment-grade rated. In July 2006, S&P and Moody’s affirmed their credit ratings on the Commonwealth debt, and removed the debt from their respective watch lists, thus reducing the possibility of an immediate additional downgrade. These actions resulted after the Government approved the budget for the 2007 fiscal year, which runs from July 2006 through June 2007 and included the adoption of a new sales tax. Revenues from the sales tax are to be dedicated primarily to fund the government’s operating expenses, and to a lesser extent, to repay government debt and fund local municipal governments. Both rating agencies maintained the negative outlook for the Puerto Rico obligation bonds. Factors such as the government’s ability to implement meaningful steps to curb operating expenditures, improve managerial and budgetary controls, and eliminate the government’s reliance on operating budget loans from the Government Development Bank of Puerto Rico will be key determinants of future rating stability and restoration of a stable long-term outlook. Also, the inability to agree on future fiscal year Commonwealth budgets could result in ratings pressure from the rating agencies. It is uncertain how the financial markets may react to any potential future ratings downgrade in Puerto Rico’s debt obligations. However, the fallout from the recent budgetary crisis and a possible ratings downgrade could adversely affect the value of Puerto Rico’s Government obligations. First Bancorp’s credit quality may be adversely affected by Puerto Rico’s current economic condition The slowdown in the island’s growth rate, which appears to have started in 2005 according to the Puerto Rico Planning Board statistics, has continued in 2006. In addition, manufacturing has declined in 2006, for the first time since 2002. Construction remained relatively weak during 2006, as the combination of rising interest rates, the Commonwealth’s fiscal situation and decreasing public investment in construction projects affected the sector. The value of construction permits during the fiscal year ending June 2006 declined 4.3%, with most of the drop coming from the public sector. Retail sales during the six months ending June 2006 also reflected the uncertainty prevalent at the time related to the Commonwealth’s fiscal situation, as well as increased oil and utility prices. Sales registered a decline of 1.9% as compared to the same period in 2005, as the months surrounding the temporary government shutdown were particularly affected. The unemployment rate was 10.2% as of December 2006. In general, it is apparent that in 2006 the Puerto Rican economy continued its trend of decreasing growth and ended the first half of the year with minimal momentum, primarily due to weaker manufacturing, softer consumption and decreased government investment in construction. The above economic concerns and uncertainty in the private and public sectors may also have an adverse effect on the credit quality of the Corporation’s loan portfolios, as delinquency rates are expected to increase in the short-term, until the economy stabilizes. Also, a potential reduction in consumer spending may also impact growth in other interest and non-interest revenue sources of the Corporation. A prolonged economic slowdown or a decline in the real estate market in the U.S mainland could harm the results of operations of FirstMortgage The residential mortgage loan origination business has historically been cyclical, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of shrinking volumes and industry-wide losses. Any decline in residential mortgage loan originations in the market could also reduce the level of mortgage loans the Corporation may produce in the future and adversely impact our business. During periods of rising interest rates, refinancing originations for many mortgage products tend to decrease as the economic incentives for borrowers to refinance their existing mortgage loans are reduced. In addition, the residential mortgage loan origination business is impacted by home values. Over the past year, residential real estate values in some areas of the U.S. mainland have decreased greatly, which has led to lower volumes and higher losses across the industry, adversely impacting our mortgage business. The actual rates of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on loans could be higher during economic slowdowns. Rising unemployment, higher interest rates or declines in housing prices tend to have a greater negative effect on the ability of borrowers to repay their mortgage loans. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could harm the Corporation’s ability to sell loans, the prices the Corporation receives for loans, the values of mortgage loans held-for-sale or residual interests in securitizations, which could harm the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any material decline in real estate values would weaken the collateral loan-to-value ratios and increase the possibility of loss if a borrower defaults. In such event, the Corporation will be subject to the risk of loss on such mortgage asset arising from borrower defaults to the extent not covered by third-party credit enhancement. 28 Table of Contents Changes in regulations and legislation could have a financial impact on First BanCorp As a financial institution, the Corporation is subject to the scrutiny of various regulatory and legislative bodies. Any change in regulations and/or legislation, whether in the United States or Puerto Rico, could have a financial impact on the results of operations of the Corporation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 