D. Risk factors Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) to include a report that asserts management’s responsibility over internal control, identifies the framework used to evaluate internal control, and provides an assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Further, it requires that the company’s 4 Table of Contents external auditor attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of internal control. A copy of the attestation report must be filed along with the annual report on Form 20-F beginning with fiscal years ended on or after not later than July 15, 2007. Although we are conducting a review of our internal control structure and procedures over the financial reporting to comply with the requirements of Section 404, there is no assurance that our external auditor will ultimately be satisfied with our internal control structure and procedures over our financial reporting, and therefore may decline to attest to management’s assessment of internal control or even issue a qualified report. This could result in a decline of our stock value due to the loss of investors’ confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, and the company may be subject to sanctions or investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) or other regulatory authorities, which would require the commitment of additional financial and management resources. Foreign sales, operations and assets. Substantially all of our products are currently manufactured in China and approximately 90% of the net book value of our total fixed assets is located there. We sell products to companies based principally in North America, Europe and Australia. Consequently, our international operations and sales may be subject to the following risks, among others: • political and economic risks, including political instability, currency controls and exchange rate fluctuations; • changes in import/export regulations; • changes in the rate of inflation; and • changes in tariff and freight rates. In particular, changes in tariff structures or other trade policies could adversely affect our customers or suppliers or decrease our competitors’ costs of production. Renminbi revaluation. From 1998 until 2005, the People’s Bank of China (“PBOC”) has kept the Renminbi’s exchange rate against the U.S. dollar steady at approximately 8.3 Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. If the Renminbi were to increase in value relative to the U.S. dollar, goods manufactured in China would become more expensive in the U.S. market in relation to comparable goods manufactured in the United States. In March 2005, China’s Premier introduced a number of conditions, including but not limited to, Chinese financial and economic stability that must be achieved before China could implement greater exchange flexibility. At that time the Premier indicated that the Renminbi was likely to be revalued, but gave no timetable for such revaluation. We sell a majority of our products into the U.S. market through our subsidiaries in Hong Kong and including Macau. These sales are generally denominated in U.S. dollars. The majority of our expenses, including salaries and wages and other production and administrative costs are denominated in Hong Kong dollars and Chinese Renminbi. Certain raw materials, material components and capital equipment are purchased using a variety of currencies including the U.S. dollar, Chinese Renminbi, Japanese yen and EURO, however the majority are purchased with Hong Kong dollars. The Hong Kong dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar at a rate of approximately $7.8 Hong Kong dollars to US$1.0. To date, in the aggregate, we have not been significantly affected by exchange rate fluctuations and therefore have not hedged our positions. On July 21, 2005, the PBOC decided to abandon its policy of pegging the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar and instead decided to link the Renminbi to a basket of currencies. The PBOC also strengthened the exchange rate of the Renminbi to 8.11 to the U.S. dollar from 8.28 as the Chinese government took its first step towards a floating currency. This reform will eventually make China products more expensive for U.S. companies. To the extent our operations are based in China, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk with respect to the Renminbi, which could ultimately negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. Government regulation. Our operations and assets in China are subject to significant political, economic, legal and other uncertainties. Any of the following could result from policy changes by the Chinese government and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition: • legal or regulatory changes, or changes in interpretation of current laws or regulations; 5 Table of Contents • new labor laws restricting flexibility in employment and added social security costs; • confiscatory or increased taxation; • restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply; • import duties; • currency devaluations; or • expropriation of private enterprise. Under its current leadership, the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies, including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. In 2001, after 15 years of negotiations, China was admitted to the World Trade Organization, (“WTO”), and is now entitled to the full trading rights afforded a WTO member country. There can be no assurance, however, that China will continue to pursue and implement favorable economic reform policies, that such policies will be successful if pursued or that such policies will not be significantly altered from time to time without notice. The municipal authorities in each township in China have discretion to impose or waive a large number of fees and taxes including value-added tax, stamp duty, licenses and permits. In the Company’s manufacturing location, it is subject to the laws and regulations of the township of Dongguan, Guangdong Province and PRC. In the early years of our operation in Dongguan, the majority of the local fees and taxes were waived or abated as a result of negotiation with local authorities. In recent years, however, our requests for waivers and abatements have received less favorable consideration and we believe that we may incur a significant increase in fees and taxes over the coming years. Cancellation or delays in purchase orders placed by our customers. Sales to our customers are primarily based on purchased orders and forecasts we received. We generally purchase and stock raw materials and components upon receiving orders; however, we will purchase the raw materials and components for certain customers based on their rolling forecasts. When there is an acute shortage of raw materials and components such as plastic resins and metal, we are required to purchase on an occasional or continuous basis with the expectation of receiving purchase orders for products that use these raw materials and components. In the event the actual orders are delayed or cancelled, we would have increased inventory levels or possible write-downs of our raw material inventory that could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Outbreak of epidemic diseases. Any recurrence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”) and Avian Influenza in China could also significantly negatively impact our manufacturing plant located in Dongguan, China. If our Hong Kong based supervisory staff is unable to travel or if other labor problems arise, it could seriously disrupt our manufacturing operation and cause significant delays in production. In addition, if the outbreak of Avian Influenza in Asian countries, including Vietnam, South Korea and Japan were to spread to Hong Kong and China, where our executive office and operation facilities are located, there may be disruptions to our business. Cost and availability of labor. There is an emerging trend of a shortage of supply of migrant workers in China, particularly in Guangdong Province where our factory is located. Both in numbers and in skill, the labor force in China cannot keep up with the current speed of economic development. We have adjusted salaries and fringe benefits in order to attract and retain an adequate labor force. In the coming year, we expect that both a potential shortage of labor and increasing costs will impact our manufacturing operations and further believe the appreciation in value of the Renminbi in relation to the U.S. dollar will also increase our costs in recruiting and retaining a skilled work force. Increase in effective tax rates. The company is subject to a lower overall effective tax rate than some U.S. domiciled corporations because of the location of its business operations. We are incorporated in the British Virgin 6 Table of Contents Islands and have subsidiaries incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, Hong Kong, Macau, China and the United States. Our executive and administrative offices are located in Hong Kong and Macau and our manufacturing facilities are in China. Our customers are located primarily in the United States and Europe. Changes in tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, one of our subsidiaries in China, Dongguan Wing Shing Electrical Products Factory Company Limited (“Dongguan Wing Shing”), was exempted from income tax for two years (1999 and 2000) followed by a 50% exemption for the next three years (2001 to 2003). On January 1, 2004, Dongguan Wing Shing became subject to the full tax rate of 27%. Dongguan Wing Shing houses our manufacturing facilities that incur a significant portion of manufacturing overhead. The finished products manufactured at Dongguan Wing Shing are sold to our other subsidiaries. We do not believe application of the full tax rate will have a significant impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In fiscal 2004, we established a new subsidiary, Dongguan Lite Array Company Limited (“Dongguan Lite Array”), which is also exempt from income tax for the two-year period commencing with its first profitable year and followed by a 50% exemption for the next three years. Dongguan Lite Array has yet to attain its first profitable year. Our subsidiary in Macau, Pentalpha Macau Commercial Offshore Limited, is not subject to taxation in Macau in accordance with Macau tax regulation, but there is no assurance that the Hong Kong Inland Revenue Department (“HKIRD”) will not seek to impose taxation on income generated in Macau. During the fiscal year ended March 31,2005, HKIRD requested further information from one of the company’s subsidiaries regarding its relationship with our subsidiary in Macau. We have applied for an extension to September 30, 2005 to respond to the Inland Revenue Department. In the opinion of management, no adverse consequence will result from such requests. However, there is no assurance that HKIRD will not seek to impose taxation on income generated in Macau, which could result in an increase in our effective tax rate. In fiscal 2005, our U.S. subsidiary, Lite Array, Inc, a Delaware corporation (“Lite Array”), engaged in the trading of raw materials for small molecule organic light emitting diode (OLED) technology for our other subsidiaries. The sales amount was immaterial. There should be no taxable income recognized as the sales amount was not sufficient to cover the expenses incurred during the period and there were tax losses carried forward from prior years. At this stage, we do not believe that our current method of operation subjects us to material U.S. taxes. There can be no assurance, however, that U.S. taxes will not be imposed on an additional portion of our income. The imposition of material U.S. income taxes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Dependence on major customers. Sales to five major customers accounted for 81.7%, 89.9% and 86.9% of our net sales during each of fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Royal Appliance Manufacturing Company (“Royal”), a floor care company, continued to be our largest customer in fiscal 2005. Sales to Royal accounted for 62.7% of our net sales in fiscal 2005, as compared to 48.4% of our net sales in fiscal 2004. Sales to Royal decreased by 19.0% in U.S. dollars in fiscal 2005, the decrease being primarily attributable to decreased sales of older models, which was partially offset by the introduction of a newer one. Over the last two years, we have established a business relationship with The Electrolux Group, which was formerly known as The Eureka Company (“Electrolux”). Sales to Electrolux accounted for 10.3% of our net sales in fiscal 2005 as compared to 26.1% of our net sales in fiscal 2004. Neither Royal, nor Electrolux is contractually obligated to purchase floor care products from us, and we only sell to each of them on the basis of purchase orders. On December 17, 2002, Techtronic Industries Limited (“TTI”) and Royal jointly announced that they had entered into a definitive agreement for TTI to acquire Royal. Effective April 23, 2003, TTI announced a merger with Royal. Following the completion of the merger, Royal is operating as a wholly-owned subsidiary of TTI. TTI, like the company, is a full-line electrical products manufacturer based in Hong Kong and China and eventually is likely to produce all of Royal’s products. We have continued offering Royal favorable pricing and payment terms in an attempt to maintain business with them. We cannot predict when TTI will begin producing all of Royal’s products and cease buying from us and we have received no formal or informal notice to that effect. We believe such a result is inevitable and likely to occur in the reasonably near future and there will be a significant adverse impact on our financial position when we lose this customer unless we are able to replace it with another major floor care company. Although the relative percentage of net sales to each of our major customers changes each year, for the foreseeable future, we expect to be dependent on between three and five major customers during each fiscal year. Although we may enter into contracts with general terms for the purchase of products with certain of our major customers, sales are generally made pursuant to purchase orders received by us from time to time. Therefore, there 7 Table of Contents can be no assurance of the level of sales to any of these major customers in the future. The loss of any one of these major customers, particularly Royal or Electrolux, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Increases in cost of raw materials. We are dependent upon outside suppliers for all of our raw material needs, including plastic resins, and are subject to price increases in these raw materials. The plastic resins we use are derived from natural gas liquids, and prices these plastic resins may fluctuate as a result of the fluctuation in natural gas and crude oil prices, as well as the relative capacity, supply and demand for the resin and petrochemical intermediates from which plastic resins are produced. During fiscal 2005, there was an approximately 50% overall increase in the price of plastic resin and we anticipate that the price will continue to increase as a result of the surge of the crude oil price in the commodity market. We have no long-term supply contracts for the purchase of plastic resin, but we generally maintain a 90-day supply. We have limited ability to increase product prices in response to plastic resin cost increases. We closely monitor the fluctuation of crude oil prices that normally affect the price of plastic resin and our inventory levels to ensure we can complete our orders on hand. If our reserves are not sufficient for our production requirements, we have to buy plastic resin at potentially higher prices in order to meet our delivery schedules. There can be no assurance that we will be able to purchase the necessary quantities of plastic resin and other raw materials at reasonable prices. Any future increase in the cost of plastic resins or other raw materials or our continuing inability to pass the increased cost of these or other raw materials onto our customers or to purchase sufficient quantities of plastic resins will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. New product category. In 2005, we entered the consumer electronic products business concentrating on display-oriented products. Our subsidiary, Global Display Limited, developed a range of consumer products incorporating high-definition flat panel displays (FPDs) that utilize liquid crystal displays (LCDs), plasma display panels (PDPs), liquid crystal on silicon (LCOS), optical, and digital display technologies. Lite Array, Inc., another subsidiary of ours, is developing a range of display modules utilizing proprietary OLED technology. These modules are expected to be initially marketed to consumer electronics companies for use in cellular phones and MPEG-1 Audio Layer-3 (“MP3”) players. To date, we have had no commercial success in these new product categories and there is no assurance that we will do so in the future. In the event that we have no commercial success in any of these product categories, we are required under U.S. GAAP to provide for impairment of our long-lived assets if the carrying amount of our long-lived assets exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the asset’s use and eventual disposition. In addition, we would, if necessary, have to write-down the value of the related inventories to market value. Any impairment or write-down of inventory would have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. New products and rapid technological change. The technology incorporated in many of our products, particularly consumer electronics is characterized by rapid change. In addition, the emergence of new technologies can quickly render existing products obsolete or unmarketable. See “Item 4.B—Business Overview” for information related to our thin film electroluminescent, or TFEL, flat-panel display business. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products that gain market acceptance will be a critical factor in our ability to grow and remain competitive. There can be no assurance that we will timely or successfully complete the development of new or enhanced products or successfully manage the transitions from one product release to the next, or that our future products will achieve market acceptance. The failure to realize such goals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are also the licensee of proprietary small molecule, passive matrix OLED, display technology and we reflect the value of this license as an intangible asset. If our plans to develop and produce OLED displays do not come to fruition, this asset would become impaired. Proprietary technology; patent protection. We hold a number of patents registered in various jurisdictions, including the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany and France, and hold the exclusive rights with respect to certain technology included in our products. We rely primarily upon a combination of trademark, copyright, know-how, trade secrets and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property rights. We believe that such measures afford only limited protection and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that the steps taken by us to protect these proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of the technology or the independent development of similar technology by others. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Indemnification liability for patent infringement. In contracts relating to original design manufacture (“ODM”) products, we typically agree to indemnify customers for all liabilities, costs, expenses or damages payable by our customers based upon a claim of patent infringement by an ODM product manufactured by us, whether such 8 Table of Contents amount is awarded by a court or agreed to in settlement negotiations. On behalf of a former customer, we are currently defending a patent infringement claim relating to a deep fryer model. See “Item 8.A—Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” No assurance can be given that this current infringement claim will be resolved in our favor or that other parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to that, or other products. An adverse decision in any such legal proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. After considering all facts known to us and based on the advice of legal counsel, however, we do not believe that any currently pending actions will have such a material adverse effect and the likelihood of a negative effect on our operating results is remote. The cost of any such indemnity or of responding to any such assertion, however, could be significant, regardless of whether the assertion is valid. Product liability. We may be subject to substantial product liability costs if claims arise out of problems associated with our products. We provide a warranty for limited manufacturing defects to certain of our customers. We do not provide warranties, however, that extend to the ultimate consumers of the product. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to a suit by a consumer who uses one of our products if the product causes an injury to any person or does not perform properly. We maintain product liability insurance in an amount we believe is sufficient. There can be no assurance, however, that our insurance coverage will be adequate or that all product liability claims will be covered by our current product liability insurance. In addition, these policies must be renewed annually. To date, we have not been subject to any material product liability claim. While we have been able to obtain product liability insurance in the past, premiums continue to increase in cost and may not be available in the future on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The failure to maintain insurance coverage, or a successful claim against us not covered by or in excess of the insurance coverage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, product liability claims, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, may have a material adverse effect on our business reputation. Product safety; delays in regulatory approval. Our products include several electric components, which may cause fires if not properly installed. Although we have experienced no significant safety problems with our products in the past and believe that our products do not present safety risks, there can be no assurance that safety problems will not occur in the future. Prior to the commercial introduction of our products into the market, we always obtain approval of our products by at least one of the organizations engaged in testing product safety. The application process for securing these approvals requires a significant commitment of time and resources by our technical staff and could delay the introduction of our products. Our inability to obtain regulatory approval within the projected timeframe for commercial introduction of our products or other product introduction delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks of manufacturing in China; property damage. All of our products are manufactured at our factory complex located in the township of Dongguan, Guangdong Province of China. In addition to the political and economic risks of operations in China, firefighting and disaster relief assistance in China is not as sophisticated as in Western countries. We currently maintain property damage insurance in the aggregate of approximately $59.7 million which covers our inventory, furniture, equipment, machinery and buildings and also maintain business interruption insurance in the aggregate of approximately $25.6 million for losses relating to our factory. Material damage to, or the loss of, our facilities due to fire, severe weather, flood or other act of God or cause, even if insured against, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Impact of environmental regulations. We are subject to Chinese laws that regulate environmental quality, the utilization of natural resources and the reduction of pollution. Environmental regulation in China is currently evolving and could become more stringent or more stringently enforced in the future, which could require us to make substantial additional capital expenditures in the future to maintain compliance. As a manufacturer, we are subject to annual inspections by the local branch of the State Environment Protection Administration (“SEPA”). Although compliance with environmental regulations has not had a material adverse effect on us in the past, failure to comply with these laws or to pass an inspection in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Dependence on distributions from operating subsidiaries and currency fluctuation. We have no direct business operations, other than our ownership of our subsidiaries. If we decide to pay dividends in the future, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations would depend upon the receipt of 9 Table of Contents dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and our other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries may also be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including, among others, restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions. Since we do not engage in hedging or other similar transactions, extraordinary currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Concentration of ownership. Wing Shing Holdings Company Limited, a British Virgin Islands company (“Wing Shing Holdings”), beneficially owns approximately 61.8% of our outstanding common shares. The share ownership of Wing Shing Holdings is held 50% by Kwong Ho Sham, 40% by John Sham and 10% by Wai Chun Hui, each of whom except Wai Chun Hui are directors. Voting control of Wing Shing Holdings is held approximately 36% by Kwong Ho Sham, approximately 57% by John Sham, and approximately 7% by others including 0.7% of the voting control held by Wai Chun Hui. As a result, Wing Shing Holdings and its shareholders are in a position to control our activities and policies, including possessing the voting power to elect our board of directors and approve all matters requiring shareholder approval and the ability to generally direct our affairs. Service and enforcement of legal process. We are organized under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. All but one of our directors and executive officers reside outside the United States, and most of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for investors to effect service of process on these persons within the United States or to enforce against these persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts, including judgments predicated on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. In particular, judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States may be difficult to enforce in British Virgin Islands courts and it is uncertain whether British Virgin Islands courts will enter judgments in original actions brought in British Virgin Islands courts predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. British Virgin Islands company. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the International Business Companies Act of the British Virgin Islands. Principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of our shareholders may differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in the United States or another jurisdiction. The rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as are the rights of shareholders in many other jurisdictions. Thus, our shareholders may have more relative difficulty protecting their interests against certain actions by our board of directors or principal shareholders than similarly situated shareholders of a corporation incorporated in another jurisdiction. Please see details under “Item 10 – Additional Information.” Macau subsidiary operations. We established a subsidiary in Macau to buy and sell products to our customers. No treaty exists between Macau and the United States providing for reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. However, the courts of Macau are generally prepared to accept a debt due and actions may then be commenced in Macau for recovery subject to specific preconditions being satisfied regarding the authenticity of the foreign judgment. Enforcement of a foreign judgment in Macau may also be limited or affected by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, arrangement, and moratorium or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors’ rights generally, but will be subject to statutory time limitation within which proceedings may be brought. Director actions without shareholder approval. Under our memorandum and articles of association and the laws of the British Virgin Islands, our memorandum and articles of association may be amended by our board of directors without shareholder approval. This includes: • increasing or reducing our authorized capital, • authorizing the issuance of different classes of shares, including preference shares, and • increasing or reducing the par value of our shares. 10 Table of Contents Our ability to amend our memorandum and articles of association by a resolution of directors or a resolution of members could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of the company without any further action by the shareholders including, but not limited to, a tender offer to purchase our common shares at a premium over then current market prices. Our status as a foreign private issuer. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As such, we are exempt from certain of the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE. Because of these exemptions, investors are not afforded the same protection or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States or traded on the NYSE. However, the NYSE does not exempt foreign private issuers from independent audit committee requirements and we are required to disclose any significant ways our current corporate governance practices differ from those followed by domestic companies under the NYSE listing standards. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer must notify the NYSE if one of our executive officers becomes aware of any material non-compliance with any applicable NYSE corporate governance listing standards to the NYSE. Please see “Item 10-Additional Information” for more information. Reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. No treaty exists between Hong Kong and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. Accordingly, Hong Kong courts might not enforce judgments predicated on the federal securities laws of the United States, whether arising from actions brought in the United States or, if permitted, in Hong Kong. 