ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before purchasing our Common Stock. Our most significant risks and uncertainties are described below; however, they are not the only risks we face. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the trading of our Common Stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment therein. You should acquire shares of our Common Stock only if you can afford to lose your entire investment. Risks Associated With our Business We Have A Limited Operating History With Significant Losses And Expect Losses To Continue In The Near Future We have yet to establish any history of profitable operations. We have incurred annual operating losses of $7,572,746 and $5,557,559 during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 respectively. As a result, at December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $41,309,142. To date, our revenues have not been sufficient to sustain our operations. Our profitability will require the successful commercialization of one or more drugs for our territories in Eastern Europe as well as the out-licensing of our internal development programs in Alzheimer's, Cancer Cardiovascular disease and Infectious Diseases. Currently, the Company has in-licensed nine products to be marketed and distributed in our Eastern Europe territories. No assurances can be given when this will occur or when we will become profitable. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- We Will Require Additional Financing To Sustain Our Operations And Without It We May Not Be Able To Continue Operations. We Cannot Currently Access Funds Under The Purchase Agreement II. We had an operating cash flow deficit of $6.25 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and $4.64 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The availability of funds under the Purchase Agreement II with Fusion Capital is subject to many conditions, some of which are predicated on events that are not within our control. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that these capital resources will be sufficient to fund our business operations. 16 Fusion Capital shall not have the right nor the obligation to purchase any shares of our Common Stock on any trading days that the market price of our Common Stock is less than $0.25. Accordingly, if the stock price is below $0.25, the Company cannot access funds under the Purchase Agreement II. If we are unable to access funds under the Purchase Agreement II, we may need to sell additional equity securities in private placements. As of March 30, 2007, with 2,209,372 remaining available under the Registration Statement, the selling price of our Common Stock to Fusion Capital will have to average at least $16.16 per share for us to receive the remaining proceeds of $35,700,000 without registering additional shares of Common Stock. Shares issued to date under the Common Stock Purchase Agreement are 12,790,628, with proceeds of $4,300,000. Assuming a minimum purchase price of $0.25 per share and the purchase by Fusion Capital of the full 2,209,372 remaining shares under the Purchase Agreement II, the remaining proceeds to us would be $552,343 unless we choose to register more than 2,209,372 shares, which we have the right, but not the obligation, to do. In the event we elect to sell more than the 2,209,372 shares, we will be required to file a new Registration Statement and have it declared effective by the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission. The number of shares ultimately offered for sale by Fusion Capital is dependent upon the number of shares purchased by Fusion Capital under the Purchase Agreement II. We have the right to receive $40,000 per trading day under the Purchase Agreement II, unless our stock price equals or exceeds $1.50, in which case the daily amount may be increased under certain conditions as the price of our Common Stock increases. The extent to which we rely on Fusion Capital as a source of funding will depend on a number of factors including the prevailing market price of our Common Stock, which as of March 30, 2007, was $0.27, and the extent to which we are able to secure working capital from other sources, such as through the sale of our products. If obtaining sufficient financing from Fusion Capital were to prove unavailable or prohibitively dilutive and if we are unable to sell enough of our products, we may need to secure another source of funding in order to satisfy our working capital needs. Even if we are able to access the remaining $35,700,000 under the Purchase Agreement II with Fusion Capital, we may still need additional capital to fully implement our business, operating and development plans. Should the financing we require to sustain our working capital needs be unavailable or prohibitively expensive when we require it, we could be forced to curtail or cease our business operations. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Sale Of Our Common Stock To Fusion Capital May Cause Dilution And The Sale Of The Shares Of Common Stock Acquired By Fusion Capital And Other Shares Registered for Selling Stockholders Could Cause The Price Of Our Common Stock To Decline In connection with entering into the Purchase Agreement II with Fusion Capital, we authorized the sale to Fusion Capital of up to 26,643,100 shares of our Common Stock and registered 16,700,000. The number of shares ultimately offered for sale by Fusion Capital is dependent upon the number of shares purchased by Fusion Capital under the agreement. The purchase price for the Common Stock to be sold pursuant to the Purchase Agreement II will fluctuate based on the price of our Common Stock. Depending upon market liquidity at the time, a sale of shares by Fusion Capital at any given time could cause the trading price of our Common Stock to decline. Fusion Capital may ultimately purchase all, some or none of the 16,700,000 shares of Common Stock being registered under the Purchase Agreement II. Further, the lower the stock price, the more shares we would have to sell to Fusion Capital to receive the same proceeds. After it has acquired such shares, it may sell all, some or none of such shares registered under the accompanying Registration Statement. Therefore, sales to Fusion Capital by us under the Purchase Agreement II may result in substantial dilution to the interests of other holders of our Common Stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock by Fusion Capital, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. However, we have the right to control the timing and amount of any sales of our shares of Common Stock to Fusion Capital and the Purchase Agreement II may be terminated by us at any time at our discretion without any cost to us. 17 Further, the sale by Fusion Capital of our Common Stock will increase the number of our publicly traded shares, which could depress the market price of our Common Stock. Moreover, the mere prospect of resales by Fusion Capital and other selling stockholders as contemplated in the prospectus filed January 26, 2007 could depress the market price for our Common Stock. The issuance of shares to Fusion Capital under the Purchase Agreement II, will dilute the equity interest of existing stockholders and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Company's License Agreements May Be Terminated In The Event Of A Breach The license agreements pursuant to which the Company has licensed its core technologies for its potential drug products permit the licensors, including Georgetown University, to terminate such agreements under certain circumstances, such as the failure by the licensee to use its reasonable best efforts to commercialize the subject drug or the occurrence of any uncured material breach by the licensee. The license agreements also provide that the licensor is primarily responsible for obtaining patent protection for the licensed technology, and the licensee is required to reimburse the licensor for costs it incurs in performing these activities. The license agreements also require the payment of specified royalties. Any inability or failure to observe these terms or pay these costs or royalties may result in the termination of the applicable license agreement in certain cases. The termination of any license agreement could force us to curtail our business operations. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Protecting Our Proprietary Rights Is Difficult and Costly The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The license agreements also provide that the licensor is primarily responsible for obtaining patent protection for the licensed technology, and the licensee is required to reimburse the licensor for costs it incurs in performing these activities. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims allowed in these companies' patents or whether the Company may infringe or be infringing on these claims. Patent disputes are common and could preclude the commercialization of our products. Patent litigation is costly in its own right and could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties. In addition, an adverse decision could force us to either obtain third-party licenses at a material cost or cease using the technology or product in dispute. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 18 Our Success Will Depend On Our Ability To Attract And Retain Key Personnel In order to execute our business plan, we need to attract, retain and motivate a significant number of highly qualified managerial, technical, financial and sales personnel. If we fail to attract and retain skilled scientific and marketing personnel, our research and development and sales and marketing efforts will be hindered. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of key management personnel, including Dr. Janet Greeson, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board of Directors, and Dr. Vassilios Papadopoulos, Chief Scientist of the Science of Technology Advisory Committee and our key consultant. We do not maintain key man insurance on either of these individuals. The loss of their services could delay our product development programs and our research and development efforts at Georgetown University. In addition, the loss of Dr. Greeson is grounds for our Research Collaboration with Georgetown University to terminate. In addition, competition for qualified employees among companies in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industry is intense and we cannot be assured that we would be able to recruit qualified personnel on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, to replace them. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- We Are Forming A New Collaboration with McGill University and Our Success Is Dependent Upon A Smooth Transition from Our Long Term Collaboration with Georgetown University. Dr. Vassilios Papadopoulos, the lead scientist in the Georgetown University/Samaritan research collaboration, has been appointed as the new Director of the Research Institute of the McGill University Health Centre (MUHC) in Montreal, Canada. Dr. Papadopoulos has an international reputation as a scientist and a proven track record of leadership in biomedical research and administration. Dr. Papadopoulos will assume his new role officially on July 1, 2007. Between now and then he expects to be at the Research Institute of the MUHC on a regular basis, working on development and operational issues. Each license granted or to be granted from Georgetown to Samaritan shall not be terminated or any way affected if the research collaboration between Georgetown and Samaritan is terminated. Each such license has its own termination provisions as set forth in the respective license. Samaritan has the right to terminate the Georgetown research collaboration under this Agreement upon a 60-day notice in the event that Dr. Papadopoulos' ceases to be the Principal Investigator or have responsibility for directing our collaborated research. Samaritan intends to transfer our research collaboration with Georgetown to MUHC and expects to initiate a research collaboration with McGill officially in the third quarter of 2007. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- We Are Faced With Intense Competition And Industry Changes, Which May Make It More Difficult For Us To Achieve Significant Market Penetration. The pharmaceutical and biotech industry generally is characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs, and frequent new product introductions. If our competitors' existing products or new products are more effective than or considered superior to our products, the commercial opportunity for our products will be reduced or eliminated. We face intense competition from companies in our marketplace as well as companies offering other treatment options. Many of our potential competitors are significantly larger than we are and have greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources than we do. We believe there will be intense price competition for products developed in our markets. Our competitors may develop or market technologies and products that are more effective or commercially attractive than any that we are developing or marketing. Our competitors may obtain regulatory approval, and introduce and commercialize products before we do. These developments could force us to curtail or cease or business operations. Even if we are able to compete successfully, we may not be able to do so in a profitable manner. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 19 If We Are Unable To Continue Product Development, Our Business Will Suffer Our growth depends in part on continued ability to successfully develop our products. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development and commercialization of these products. Our products in development may not prove safe and effective in clinical trials. Clinical trials may identify significant technical or other obstacles that must be overcome before obtaining necessary regulatory or reimbursement approvals. In addition, our competitors may succeed in developing commercially viable products that render our products obsolete or less attractive. Failure to successfully develop and commercialize new products and enhancements would likely have a significant negative effect on our financial prospects. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- There Is No Assurance That Our Products Will Have Market Acceptance The success of the Company will depend in substantial part on the extent to which a drug product, once approved, achieves market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including (a) the receipt and scope of regulatory approvals, (b) the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the safety and efficacy of a drug product, (c) the product's potential advantages over existing treatment methods and (d) reimbursement policies of government and third party payers. We cannot predict or guarantee physicians, patients, healthcare insurers, maintenance organizations, or the medical community in general, will accept or utilize any drug product of the Company. If our products do not develop market acceptance, we will be forced to curtail or cease our business operations. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- There Is Uncertainty Relating To Third-Party Reimbursement, Which Is Critical To Market Acceptance Of Our Products. International market acceptance of our products may depend, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within prevailing health care payment systems. Reimbursement and health care payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and include both government sponsored health care and private insurance. We may not obtain international reimbursement approvals in a timely manner, if at all. Our failure to receive international reimbursement approvals may negatively impact market acceptance of our products in the international markets in which those approvals are sought and could force us to curtail or cease our business operations. 20 From time to time significant attention has been focused on reforming the health care system in the United States and other countries. Any changes in Medicare, Medicaid or third-party medical expense reimbursement, which may arise from health care reform, may have a material adverse effect on reimbursement for our products or procedures in which our products are used and may reduce the price we are able to charge for our products. In addition, changes to the health care system may also affect the commercial acceptance of products we are currently developing and products we may develop in the future. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- If We Fail To Protect Our Licensed Intellectual Property Rights, Our Competitors May Take Advantage Of Our Ideas And Compete Directly Against Us. Our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to secure and protect intellectual property rights and to enforce patent and trademark protections relating to our technology which we license. From time to time, litigation may be advisable to protect our intellectual property position. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Any litigation in this regard could be costly, and it is possible that we will not have sufficient resources to fully pursue litigation or to protect our other intellectual property rights. It could result in the rejection or invalidation of our existing and future patents. Any adverse outcome in litigation relating to the validity of our patents, or any failure to pursue litigation or otherwise to protect our patent position, could force us to curtail or cease our business operations. Also, even if we prevail in litigation, the litigation would be costly in terms of management distraction as well as in terms of money. In addition, confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, customers, and key vendors may not prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technology. It is possible that these agreements could be breached or that they might not be enforceable in every instance, and that we might not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Enforcement of these agreements may be costly and time consuming. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- We May Be Sued For Allegedly Violating The Intellectual Property Rights Of Others. The pharmaceutical industry has in the past been characterized by a substantial amount of litigation and related administrative proceedings regarding patents and intellectual property rights. In addition, major pharmaceutical companies have used litigation against emerging growth companies as a means of gaining or preserving a competitive advantage. Should third parties file patent applications or be issued patents claiming technology also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine the relative priorities of our inventions and the third parties' inventions. We could also be required to participate in interference proceedings involving our issued patents and pending applications of another entity. An adverse outcome in an interference proceeding could require us to cease using the technology or to license rights from prevailing third parties and force us to curtail or cease our business operations. 21 Third parties may claim we are using their patented inventions and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities. These lawsuits are expensive to defend and conduct and would also consume and divert the time and attention of our management. A court may decide that we are infringing a third party's patents and may order us to cease the infringing activity. A court could also order us to pay damages for the infringement. These damages could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An adverse outcome on an infringement claim could force us to curtail or cease our business operations. If we are unable to obtain any necessary license following an adverse determination in litigation or in interference or other administrative proceedings, we would have to redesign our products to avoid infringing a third party's patent and could temporarily or permanently have to discontinue manufacturing and selling some of our products. If this were to occur, it would negatively impact future sales and, in turn, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could force us to curtail or cease our business operations. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- If We Fail To Obtain Or Maintain Necessary Regulatory Clearances Or Approvals For Products, Or If Approvals Are Delayed Or Withdrawn, We Will Be Unable To Commercially Distribute And Market Our Products Or Any Product Modifications. Government regulation has a significant impact on our business. Government regulation in the United States and other countries is a significant factor affecting the research and development, manufacture and marketing of our products. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has broad authority under the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act to regulate the distribution, manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory clearances and approvals is lengthy and expensive. We may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary approvals for clinical testing or for the manufacturing or marketing of our products. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory approvals can, among other things, result in fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, operating restrictions, and criminal prosecution. In addition, governmental regulations may be established which could prevent, delay, modify or rescind regulatory approval of our products. Any of these actions by the FDA, or change in FDA regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Regulatory approvals, if granted, may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which our products may be marketed. In addition, to obtain such approvals, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may impose numerous other requirements on us. FDA enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. In addition, product approvals can be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory standards or unforeseen problems following initial marketing. We may not be able to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for our products on a timely basis, or at all, and delays in receipt of or failure to receive such approvals, the loss of previously obtained approvals, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could force us to curtail or cease our business operations. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 22 Positive Results In Preclinical And Early Clinical Trials Do Not Ensure Future Clinical Trials Will Be Successful Or Drug Candidates Will Receive Any NecessaryRegulatory Approvals For The Marketing, Distribution Or Sale Of Such Drug Candidates. Success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale clinical trials will be successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations, delaying, limiting or preventing regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- If We Become Subject To Product Liability Claims, We May Be Required To Pay Damages That Exceed Our Insurance Coverage. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, production, marketing and sale of pharmaceuticals products. While we maintain a commercial general liability policy for $2 million, we may not be able to maintain insurance in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage. A claim in excess of our insurance coverage would have to be paid out of cash reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and force us to curtail or cease our business operations. In addition, any product liability claim likely would harm our reputation in the industry and our ability to develop and market products in the future. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Insurance Coverage Is Increasingly More Difficult To Obtain or Maintain Obtaining insurance for our business, property and products is increasingly more costly and narrower in scope, and we may be required to assume more risk in the future. If we are subject to third party claims or suffer a loss or damage in excess of our insurance coverage, we may be required to share that risk in excess of our insurance limits. Furthermore, any first-or-third-party claims made on any of our insurance policies may impact our ability to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at reasonable costs or at all in the future. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- We Are Dependent On Third Parties For A Significant Portion Of Our Bulk Supply And The Formulation, Fill And Finish Of Our Product Candidates. We currently produce a substantial portion of clinical product candidates' supply at our collaborative partner's Ireland manufacturing facility. However, we also depend on third parties for a significant portion of our product candidates' bulk supply as well as for some of the formulation, fill and finish of product candidates that we manufacture. Pharmaplaz is our third-party contract manufacturer of product candidates' bulk drug; accordingly, our clinical supply of product candidates is currently significantly dependent on Pharmaplaz's production schedule for product candidates. We would be unable to produce product candidates in sufficient quantities to substantially offset shortages in Pharmaplaz's scheduled production if Pharmaplaz or other third-party contract manufacturers used for the formulation, fill and finish of product candidates bulk drug were to cease or interrupt production or services or otherwise fail to supply materials, products or services to us for any reason, including due to labor shortages or disputes, regulatory requirements or action or contamination of product lots or product recalls. We cannot guarantee that an alternative third-party contract manufacturer would be available on a timely basis or at all. This in turn could materially reduce our ability to satisfy demand for product candidates, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 23 Our Corporate Compliance Program Cannot Guarantee That We Are In Compliance With All Potentially Applicable U.S. Federal And State Regulations And All Potentially Applicable Foreign Regulations. The development, manufacturing, distribution, pricing, sales, marketing and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation in the United States and to extensive regulation in foreign countries. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe to be current best practices, we cannot assure you that we or our employees are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and/or laws or all potentially applicable foreign regulations and/or laws. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations and/or laws a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, including withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs or other sanctions or litigation. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Risks Associated With An Investment In Our Common Stock The Market Price Of Our Common Stock Is Highly Volatile. The market price of our Common Stock has been and is expected to continue to be highly volatile. Various factors, including announcements of technological innovations by us or other companies, regulatory matters, new or existing products or procedures, concerns about our financial position, operating results, litigation, government regulation, developments or disputes relating to agreements, patents or proprietary rights may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock. If our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our Common Stock may fall abruptly and significantly. Future sales of our Common Stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants or hedging or other derivative transactions with respect to our stock, could have a significant negative effect on the market price of our Common Stock. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we would deem appropriate. We entered into registration rights agreements in connection with certain financings pursuant to which we agreed to register for resale by the investors the shares of Common Stock issued. Sales of these shares could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our shares of Common Stock. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 24 If We Do Not Show Progress Consistent With Our Compliance Plan, There Is No Assurance That Our Stock Will Not Be Delisted From The American Stock Exchange ("AMEX", the "Exchange"). On April 3, 2007, the American Stock Exchange ("AMEX") notified Samaritan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. that its listing on the AMEX exchange is being continued pursuant to an extension with a plan completion date of May 31, 2007, which encompasses the due date for Samaritan's quarterly Report (Form 10-Q) for the period ending March 31, 2007 to demonstrate that it has regained compliance with the continued listing standards in Section 1003(a)(ii) and (iii) of the AMEX Company Guide. The Company must also address Section 1003(f)(v) of the AMEX Company Guide. Previously on November 6, 2006 and on January 30, 2007 , the AMEX Listing Qualifications staff notified the Company it no longer complies with the Exchange's continued listing standard due to its shareholder's equity of less than $4 million and losses from continuing operations and/or losses in three out of its four most recent fiscal years, as set forth in Section 1003(a)(ii) of the Company Guide; with its shareholder's equity of less than $6 million from continuing operations and/or net losses in its five most recent fiscal years, as set forth in Section 1003(a)(iii) of the Company Guide; and with its low selling price, as set forth in Section 1003(f)(v) of the Company Guide. The Company is required by the AMEX to provide periodic reports showing progress consistent with the Company's compliance plan. If the Company does not show progress consistent with our compliance plan, the Staff will review the circumstances and may immediately commence delisting proceedings. Thus, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain continued listing on the AMEX. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Under Provisions Of The Company's Articles Of Incorporation, Bylaws And Nevada Law, The Company's Management May Be Able To Block Or Impede A Change In Control The issuance of blank check preferred stock, where the Board of Directors can designate rights or preferences, may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or may discourage a third party from acquiring, a majority of our voting stock. These and other provisions in our Articles of Incorporation (restated as last amended June 10, 2005) and in our Bylaws (restated as last amended April 18, 2005), as well as certain provisions of Nevada law, could delay or impede the removal of incumbent directors and could make it more difficult to effect a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving a change of control of the Company, even if such events could be beneficial to the interest of the shareholders as a whole. Such provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for our Common Stock. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 25 Officers and Directors Liabilities Are Limited Under Nevada Law Pursuant to the Company's Articles of Incorporation (restated as last amended June 10, 2005) and Bylaws (restated as last amended April 18, 2005), and as authorized under applicable Nevada law, Directors are not liable for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty, except in connection with a breach of the duty of loyalty for (a) acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (b) for dividend payments or stock repurchases illegal under applicable Nevada law or (c) any transaction in which a Director has derived an improper personal benefit. The Company's Articles of Incorporation (restated as last amended June 10, 2005) and Bylaws (restated as last amended April 18, 2005) provide that the Company must indemnify its officers and Directors to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Nevada law for all expenses incurred in the settlement of any actions against such persons in connection with their having served as officers or Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 