ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.In addition to the information and factors discussed elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, the factors disclosed below could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements and could affect our future financial performance.Risks related to our businessEconomic conditions and disruptions in the financial markets may effect adversely our business, results of operations and liquidity.The United States and global equity and credit markets have at times experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions since 2008, all of which caused market prices of the stock of many companies to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective and outstanding debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances led to a decline in business and consumer confidence, resulted in a decline of real estate values, and impacted liquidity in the global financial markets, which made terms for financings less attractive, and, in some cases, resulted in the lack of availability of certain types of financing. Continued uncertainty in the equity and credit markets may impact negatively our ability to access additional short-term and long-term financing on reasonable terms or at all, which would impact negatively our liquidity and financial condition. A prolonged downturn in the stock or credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing and may impact negatively our ability to enter into derivative contracts in order to hedge risks associated with changes in interest rates. In addition, a downturn and/or uncertainty in U.S. and global financial markets could, directly or indirectly, adversely affect the value of our properties and lodging demand and therefore our business, financial condition and results of operations. The ultimate impact of these events and the effects they may have on our business, financial condition and liquidity are unpredictable and may not be immediately apparent.We incurred losses in recent fiscal years due to the recent economic downturn, and we may incur losses in the future.We incurred net losses of $58.3 million, $4.9 million, $230.8 million and $246.4 million for our 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009 fiscal years, respectively. The recent economic downturn has negatively impacted business and leisure travel. A further decline in economic conditions will likely produce additional losses. There can be no assurance that we will maintain profitable operations and generate net income for our stockholders in the near term or at all.Our financial covenants may adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and liquidity.The agreement governing our bank credit facility and certain other agreements include financial and other covenants that must be met for us to remain in compliance with those agreements. Those agreements also contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations, including restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Importantly, our bank credit facility contains financial covenants that must be met, including the maintenance of stipulated minimum levels of tangible net worth and fixed charge coverage, and maximum levels of leverage and borrowing base availability. Availability under our bank credit facility is based on, among other factors, the lesser of the calculation of 1.2 times debt service coverage based on the greater of the in-place interest rate or 7.0% debt constant for the borrowing base assets or a 60% advance rate against the appraised value of the borrowing base assets. The actual interest rate on our bank credit facility is LIBOR plus 3.00%, which equates to 3.17% as of December 31, 2013. Our ability to borrow under our bank credit facility is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants, and our ability to comply with these covenants will be impacted by, among other things, any deterioration in our operations brought on by the recent economic downturn, potential further declines in our property values, additional borrowings to maintain our liquidity and fund our capital and financing obligations, and security concerns impacting travel to Mexico.Our available capacity under the bank credit facility and compliance with financial covenants in future periods will depend substantially on the financial results of our hotels and resorts, and in particular, the results of the borrowing base assets, which include the Four Seasons Punta Mita Resort, Marriott Lincolnshire Resort, Ritz-Carlton Half Moon Bay and Ritz-Carlton Laguna Niguel hotels. The recent operating results of the Four Seasons Punta Mita Resort in Mexico has been negatively impacted by security concerns impacting travel to Mexico, as well as the recent economic downturn. If these negative conditions persist, the financial results of our hotels and resorts deteriorate, or if our property values decline, the maximum availability under the bank credit facility may decline to a level below our short-term borrowing needs. If that were to occur, outstanding borrowings exceeding the maximum availability under the bank credit facility would need to be repaid to avoid a default under the bank credit facility, absent an amendment or waiver. If we are unable to borrow under our bank credit facility or to refinance existing indebtedness, we may be prevented from funding our working capital needs.9Table of ContentsIn the event that the economic recovery stalls and negative economic conditions return and our business significantly deteriorates, we may be required to take further steps to acquire the funds necessary to satisfy our short-term cash needs, including possibly liquidating some of our assets on terms that would be less attractive than would be obtainable after conditions in the economy, the credit markets and the hotel markets improve. If negative conditions return, our business deteriorates and we do not achieve a successful disposition of assets or increase our liquidity through alternative channels or modify or obtain a waiver to certain terms of our bank credit facility, we may breach one or more of our financial covenants or the maximum availability under the bank credit facility may fall below our short-term borrowing needs. A default under the bank credit facility would allow the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding under the facility to become due and payable. Additionally, such an acceleration event would allow for acceleration of the interest rate swaps (with a termination cost of $28.9 million as of December 31, 2013).We have substantial debt, a portion of which is variable-rate debt, and upon maturity, we plan to extend or refinance with new debt, which may not be available when required on optimal terms or at all.We have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness, a portion of which bears interest at a variable-rate, and to the extent available, we may borrow additional variable-rate debt under our bank credit facility. When we seek to refinance our outstanding indebtedness, our interest expense may increase. Increases in interest rates on our existing variable-rate indebtedness, or on new indebtedness we incur when refinancing our existing indebtedness, would increase our interest expense, which could harm our cash flow and our ability to pay distributions. As of December 31, 2013, we had total debt of $1.27 billion, and, including the effect of interest rate swaps, approximately 68.0% of our total debt had fixed interest rates.Our significant debt may negatively affect our business and financial results, including:•requiring us to use a substantial portion of our funds from operations to make required payments on principal and interest, which reduces the amounts available for distributions to our stockholders and funds available for operations, capital expenditures, future business opportunities and other purposes;•making us more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns and reducing our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions;•limiting our ability to borrow more money for operations, capital or to finance acquisitions in the future; and•requiring us to dispose of properties to make required payments of interest and principal.Since we anticipate that our internally generated cash will be adequate to repay only a portion of our indebtedness prior to maturity, we expect that we will be required to repay debt through refinancings and/or equity offerings. The amount of our existing indebtedness may adversely affect our ability to repay debt through refinancings. See the discussion under the subheading “Debt Maturity:” in Note 10 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this annual report on Form 10-K for quantified information regarding our debt maturities as of December 31, 2013. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt with new borrowings on favorable terms or at all or raise capital through the sale of equity. If we are unable to refinance or restructure our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties on disadvantageous terms, or forfeit the property securing such indebtedness, which might result in losses to us and which might adversely affect cash available for distributions to our stockholders. Alternatively, any debt we may arrange may carry a higher rate of interest or the shares we issue in any equity offering may require a higher rate of dividends or other dilutive terms. As a result, certain growth initiatives could prove more costly or not economically feasible. A failure to retain or refinance our bank credit facility or to add new or replacement debt facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We also could incur additional debt in connection with future acquisitions of real estate. We may, in some instances, to the extent available, borrow under our bank credit facility or borrow new funds to acquire properties. In addition, we may incur mortgage debt by obtaining loans secured by a portfolio of some or all of the real estate properties we acquire. If necessary or advisable, we may also borrow funds to satisfy the requirement that we distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income or to ensure otherwise that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes.Our working capital and liquidity reserves may not be adequate to cover all of our cash needs and we may have to obtain financing from either affiliated or unaffiliated sources. If the United States and global financial markets experience another downturn or turmoil, sufficient financing may not be available or, if available, may not be available on reasonable terms. Additional borrowings for working capital purposes will increase our interest expense, and therefore may harm our financial condition and results of operations.10Table of ContentsOur organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. To the extent we become more leveraged, the resulting increase in our debt service obligations would reduce cash available for distributions to our stockholders and could adversely affect our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness and harm our financial condition.We own primarily upper upscale and luxury hotels and resorts, and the upper upscale and luxury segments of the lodging market are highly competitive and generally subject to greater volatility than other segments of the market, which could negatively affect our profitability.The upper upscale and luxury segments of the hotel business are highly competitive. Our hotels and resorts compete on the basis of location, room rates and quality, service levels, reputation and reservations systems, among many other factors. There are many competitors in our hotel chain scale segments, and many of these competitors have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we have. This competition could reduce occupancy levels and room revenue at our hotels and resorts, which would harm our operations. Over-building in the hotel industry may increase the number of rooms available and may decrease occupancy and room rates. We also face competition from nationally recognized hotel brands with which we are not associated. In addition, in periods of weak demand, profitability is negatively affected by the relatively high fixed costs of operating upper upscale and luxury hotels and resorts when compared to other classes of hotels and resorts.The illiquidity of real estate investments and the lack of alternative uses of hotel properties could significantly limit our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition.Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more of our properties in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. In addition, hotel properties may not readily be converted to alternative uses if they were to become unprofitable due to competition, age of improvements, decreased demand or other factors. The conversion of a hotel to alternative uses would also generally require substantial capital expenditures.We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We may not have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements and as a result our ability to sell the property would be limited. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could significantly harm our financial condition and results of operations.Certain of our long-lived assets, intangible assets, investments in unconsolidated affiliates and goodwill have in the past become impaired and may become impaired in the future.We periodically review each of our hotels and resorts and any related goodwill for possible impairment. Based on the results of these analyses, in fiscal years 2013 and 2012 we wrote off $0.7 million and $14.6 million, respectively, to impairment losses to reduce the carrying value of long-lived assets to their estimated fair values. Our other hotels and related goodwill may become impaired, or our hotels which have previously become impaired may become further impaired, in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We rely to a significant extent on our president and chief executive officer, Mr. Raymond L. Gellein, Jr., the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our continued success will depend to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our president and chief executive officer, Mr. Raymond L. Gellein, Jr. Mr. Gellein has served as our president and chief executive officer since November 2012 and has served as our chairman of the board since August 2010. Mr. Gellein is an experienced hotel industry senior executive and operator. As chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer, Mr. Gellein is actively engaged in our management and determines our strategic direction, especially with regard to our operational, financing, acquisition and disposition activities. Mr. Gellein’s departure could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and operating results. The geographic concentration of our hotels in California makes us more susceptible to an economic downturn or natural disaster in that state.As of February 26, 2014, seven of the hotels and resorts we own were located in California, the greatest concentration of our portfolio of properties in any state. California has been historically at greater risk to certain acts of nature, such as fire, floods and earthquakes, than other states, and has also been subject to a more pronounced economic downturn than other states. 11Table of ContentsIt is also possible that a change in California laws applicable to hotels and resorts and the lodging industry may have a greater impact on us than a change in comparable laws in another jurisdiction where we have hotels and resorts. Accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be particularly susceptible to a natural disaster, downturn or changes in the California economy.We have suspended the payment of dividends on our common stock and have suspended the payment of dividends on our preferred stock in the past.In November 2008, we suspended payment of our dividend on our shares of common stock. We can provide no assurance as to when we will resume paying dividends on our common stock, if ever. In addition, in the past, we suspended the quarterly dividend to holders of shares of our 8.50% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, 8.25% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock and 8.25% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, which we collectively refer to herein as our Outstanding Preferred Stock. We can provide no assurance that we will not suspend the payment of quarterly dividends on our Outstanding Preferred Stock in the future. Pursuant to the Articles Supplementary governing our Outstanding Preferred Stock, if we do not pay quarterly dividends on our Outstanding Preferred Stock for six quarters, whether or not consecutive, the size of our board of directors will be increased by two and the holders of our Outstanding Preferred Stock will have the right to elect two additional directors to our board. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures in the future, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which could have an adverse effect on our business.If our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, we may not be able to provide reliable financial information. If we discover deficiencies in our internal controls, we will make efforts to remediate these deficiencies; however, there is no assurance that we will be successful either in identifying deficiencies or in their remediation. Any failure to maintain effective controls in the future could adversely affect our business or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Such non-compliance could also result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements. In addition, perceptions of our business among customers, suppliers, rating agencies, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others could be adversely affected.Rising operating expenses and costs of capital improvements could reduce our cash flow, earnings before interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) and funds available for future distributions.Our properties are subject to operating risks common to the lodging industry in general. If a property’s occupancy or room rates drop to the point where its revenues are insufficient to cover its operating expenses, then we could be required to spend additional funds for that property’s operating expenses. Our properties are continually subject to increases in real estate and other tax rates, wages and benefits, utility costs, operating expenses, insurance costs, repairs and maintenance and administrative expenses, which may reduce our cash flow, EBITDA and funds available for future distributions to our stockholders.Our hotel properties have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including replacements, from time to time, of furniture, fixtures and equipment. Some of these capital improvements are mandated by health, safety or other regulations. These capital improvements may give rise to (i) a possible shortage of available cash to fund capital improvements, (ii) the possibility that financing for these capital improvements may not be available to us on affordable terms and (iii) uncertainties as to market demand or a loss of market demand after capital improvements have begun. The costs of these capital improvements could adversely affect our financial condition and amounts available for distributions to our stockholders.Our business and operating results depend in large part upon the performance of third-party hotel management companies that manage our hotels and resorts.Our hotels and resorts are managed by third-party hotel management companies pursuant to management agreements or, with respect to the Marriott Hamburg hotel, the lease applicable to that property. Therefore, our business and operating results depend in large part upon the performance of these hotel management companies under these management agreements.Under the terms of these management agreements, the third-party hotel managers control the daily operations of our hotels and resorts. We do not have the authority to require any hotel or resort to be operated in a particular manner or to govern any particular aspect of the daily operations of any hotel (for instance, setting room rates). Thus, even if we believe our hotels and resorts are being operated inefficiently or in a manner that does not result in satisfactory occupancy rates, net revenue per available room or average daily rate, we may not be able to force the hotel management companies in question to change their methods of operation of our hotels and resorts. Additionally, in the event that we need to replace any hotel management company, we may be required by the terms of the applicable management agreement to pay a substantial termination fee and 12Table of Contentsmay experience disruptions at any affected hotel. The effectiveness of the hotel management companies in managing our hotels and resorts will, therefore, significantly affect the revenues, expenses and value of our hotels and resorts. Occasionally, we have discovered accounting and other errors at some of our properties relating to the improper recording of income statement expenses, misstated inventories and other items apparently caused by poor accounting practices and oversight. In the event our third-party hotel management companies are not able to implement and maintain appropriate accounting or other controls with respect to our properties, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.Additionally, the hotel management companies that operate our hotels and resorts and their affiliates own, operate, or franchise properties other than our properties, including properties that directly compete with our properties. Therefore, a hotel management company may have different interests than our own with respect to short-term or long-term goals and objectives, including interests relating to the brand under which such hotel management company operates. Such differences may be significant depending upon many factors, including the remaining term of the applicable management agreement, trade area restrictions with respect to competitive practices by the hotel management company or its affiliates or differing policies, procedures or practices. Any of these factors may adversely impact the operation and profitability of a hotel or resort, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations.All revenues generated at our hotels and resorts, including credit card receivables, are deposited by the payors into accounts maintained and controlled by the relevant hotel management company, which pays operating and other expenses for the relevant hotel (including real and personal property taxes), pays itself management fees in accordance with the terms of the applicable management agreement and makes deposits into any reserve funds required by the applicable management agreement. In the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency involving a hotel management company, there is a risk that the payment of operating and other expenses for the relevant hotel and payment of revenues to us may be delayed or otherwise impaired. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a hotel management company may significantly impair its ability to provide services required under the management agreement.Certain of the employees at our hotels and resorts are covered by collective bargaining agreements and labor disputes may disrupt operations or increase costs at our hotels and resorts.Our hotel management companies act as employer of the hotel-level employees. At certain of our hotels, these employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. At the current time, the collective bargaining agreement at our Loews Santa Monica Beach Hotel has expired. At this time, we cannot predict when or whether a new agreement will be reached and what the impact of prolonged negotiations could be. If an agreement is reached, or if any of our hotels not currently operating under a collective bargaining agreement enters into one, such agreement may cause us to incur additional expenses related to the employees at our hotels, thereby reducing our profits and impacting our financial results negatively. Additionally, if an agreement is not reached and there are labor disputes, including strikes, operations at our hotel could suffer due to the diversion of business to other hotels or increased costs of operating the hotel during such a labor dispute, thereby impacting our financial results negatively.The outbreak of a pandemic disease, such as the H1N1 virus, has had and may in the future have an adverse impact on our financial results.An outbreak of a pandemic disease, such as the H1N1 virus, has had and may in the future have a significant adverse impact on travel and the lodging industry. As a consequence, our financial results of operations may be adversely effected.Our renovation and development activities are subject to timing, budgeting and other risks.We are in the process of renovating several of our properties and expect to continue similar activities in the future, as well as develop and redevelop certain properties. These renovation, development, and redevelopment activities and the pursuit of acquisition and other corporate opportunities expose us to certain risks, including those relating to:•construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs and, as a result, make the project uneconomical;•displacement in revenue during the period of renovation;•defects in design or construction that may result in additional costs to remedy or require all or a portion of a property to be closed during the period required to rectify any such situation;•the failure to complete construction of a property on schedule;•insufficient occupancy rates at a completed project impeding our ability to pay operating expenses or achieve targeted rates of return on investment;13Table of Contents•the incurrence of acquisition and/or predevelopment costs in connection with projects that are delayed or not pursued to completion;•natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires that could adversely impact a project;•receipt of zoning, occupancy, building, land-use or other required governmental permits and authorizations; and•governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project or timing of completion.In the case of an unsuccessful project, we may be required to write off capitalized costs associated with the project and such write-offs may be significant and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We face competition for the acquisition of real estate properties.We compete with institutional pension funds, private equity investors, other REITs, owner-operators of hotels and resorts and others who are engaged in real estate investment activities that focus on the acquisition of hotels and resorts. These competitors may drive up the price we must pay for real estate property, other assets or other companies we seek to acquire or may succeed in acquiring those real estate properties, other assets or other companies themselves. In addition, our potential acquisition targets may find our competitors to be more attractive suitors because they may have greater resources, may be willing to pay more or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In addition, the number of entities competing for suitable investment properties may increase in the future. This would result in increased demand for these real estate properties, other assets or other companies and therefore increase the prices required to be paid for them. If we pay higher prices for real estate properties, other assets or other companies, our profitability may be reduced. Also, future acquisitions of real property, other assets or other companies may not yield the returns we expect and, if financed using our equity, may result in stockholder dilution. We also may not be successful in identifying or consummating acquisitions and investments in unconsolidated affiliates on satisfactory terms. In addition, our profitability may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for intangible assets. We also may incur significant expenses in connection with acquisition or other corporate opportunities we pursue but do not consummate.Investing through partnerships decreases our ability to manage risk.In addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest in hotels and ancillary businesses, as a partner. Partners often have shared control over the operation of the assets. Therefore, investments may involve risks such as the possibility that the partner in an investment might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Consequently, actions by a partner might subject hotels, resorts and businesses to additional risk. We may be unable to take action without the approval of our partners, and alternatively, our partners could take actions without our consent. Additionally, should a partner become bankrupt, we could become liable for our partner’s share of liabilities. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures.Despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. We may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions.Cyber security risks and cyber incidents could adversely affect our business and disrupt operations. The hospitality industry is under increasing attack by cyber-criminals in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we operate. These attacks can be deliberate attacks or unintentional events that could cause interruptions or delays in our business, loss of data, or render our management companies unable to process reservations. Accordingly, an extended interruption in the ability of any system to function could significantly curtail, directly and indirectly, our ability to conduct our business and generate revenue.While we carry property and business operation interruption insurance, we may not be sufficiently compensated for all losses we may incur. These losses include not only a loss of revenues but also potential reputational damage to the brands which manage our hotels, our brand and litigation, fines or regulatory action against us. Furthermore, we may also incur substantial remediation costs to repair system damage as well as satisfy liabilities for stolen assets or information that may further reduce our profits.14Table of ContentsRisks related to the lodging and real estate industriesA number of factors, many of which are common to the lodging industry and beyond our control, could affect our business, including those described elsewhere herein as well as the following:•increased competition from new supply or existing hotel properties in our markets, which would likely adversely affect occupancy and revenues at our hotels and resorts;•dependence on business, commercial and leisure travelers and tourism;•dependence on group and meeting/conference business;•increases in energy costs, airline bankruptcies, airline strikes or other factors that may affect travel patterns and reduce the number of business and commercial travelers and tourists;•risks generally associated with the ownership of hotel properties and real estate, as we discuss in more detail below;•general economic and business conditions affecting the lodging and travel industry, both nationally and locally, including a prolonged U.S. recession;•increases in operating costs due to inflation, labor costs (including the impact of unionization), workers’ compensation and health-care related costs (including the impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act), utility costs, insurance and unanticipated costs such as acts of nature and their consequences and other factors that may not be offset by increased room rates;•changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; and•adverse effects of international market conditions, which may diminish the desire for leisure travel or the need for business travel, as well as national, regional and local economic and market conditions in which our hotels and resorts operate and where our customers live.These factors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, which may affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.Uninsured and underinsured losses could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, which may affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.Various types of catastrophic losses, such as losses due to wars, terrorist acts, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes or pollution or other environmental matters generally are either uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be subject to insurance coverage limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. Although our earthquake insurance coverage is limited, as of February 26, 2014, seven of our hotels and resorts were located in California, which has been historically at a greater risk for certain acts of nature (such as fire, floods and earthquakes) than other states. Our InterContinental Miami hotel and Four Seasons Punta Mita Resort are located in areas that are prone to hurricanes and/or floods.In the event of a catastrophic loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the full current market value or replacement cost of our lost investment. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. In the event of a significant loss that is covered by insurance, our deductible may be high and, as a consequence, it could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also keep us from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate a hotel after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under those circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might be inadequate to restore our economic position in the damaged or destroyed property.Certain events, such as Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005, have historically made it more difficult and expensive to obtain property and casualty insurance, including coverage for windstorm, flood and earthquake damage, and such events could occur again. We may encounter difficulty in obtaining or renewing property insurance, including coverage for windstorm, flood and earthquake damage, or casualty insurance on our properties at the same levels of coverage, under similar terms and in a timely manner due to a lack of capacity in the insurance markets or a lack of availability of such insurance at commercially reasonable rates. Insurance we would be able to obtain may be more limited and for some catastrophic risks (e.g., earthquake, flood, windstorm and terrorism) may not be generally available to fully cover potential losses. Even if we would be able to 15Table of Contentsobtain new policies with desired levels and with limitations, we cannot be sure that we would be able to obtain such insurance at premium rates that are commercially reasonable or that there would not be gaps in our coverage. If we did not obtain adequate insurance on our properties for certain risks or in a timely manner, it would expose us to uninsured losses and could cause us to be in default under specific covenants on certain of our indebtedness or other contractual commitments which require us to maintain adequate insurance on our properties to protect against the risk of loss. If this were to occur, or if we were unable to obtain adequate insurance and our properties experienced damage which would otherwise have been covered by insurance, it could materially adversely affect our financial condition and the operations of our properties.We obtain terrorism insurance to cover any property damage caused by any terrorism act under a separate stand-alone policy of insurance, and also have terrorism insurance under our general liability program and in our program for directors’ and officers’ coverage. We may not be able to recover fully under our existing terrorism insurance for losses caused by some types of terrorist acts, and federal terrorism legislation does not ensure that we will be able to obtain terrorism insurance in adequate amounts or at acceptable premium levels in the future. Insurers only have to provide terrorism coverage to the extent mandated by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (TRIPRA) effective December 26, 2007. While TRIPRA will reimburse insurers for losses resulting from nuclear, radiological, biological and chemical perils, TRIPRA does not require insurers to offer coverage for these perils and, to date, insurers are not willing to provide this coverage, even with government reinsurance. Any damage related to war and to nuclear, biological and chemical incidents, therefore, is excluded under our policies. TRIPRA is due to expire on December 31, 2014. There is no guaranty that terrorism insurance will be readily available or affordable before or after expiration of the TRIPRA in December 2014 or that TRIPRA will not be modified or repealed. As a result of the above, there remains uncertainty regarding the extent and adequacy of terrorism coverage that will be available to protect our interests in the event of future terrorist attacks that impact our properties.We derive revenues from outside the United States, which subjects us to different legal, monetary and political risks, as well as currency exchange risks, and may cause unpredictability in our cash flows.A portion of our investments are in hotel properties located outside the United States. International investments and operations generally are subject to various political and other risks that are different from and in addition to those for U.S. investments and operations, including:•enactment of laws prohibiting or restricting the foreign ownership of property;•laws restricting us from removing profits earned from activities within the country to the United States (i.e., nationalization of assets located within a country);•changes in laws, regulations and policies, including land use, zoning and environmental laws, and in real estate and other tax rates;•exchange rate fluctuations;•change in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funds resulting from varying national economic policies or changes in interest rates;•high administrative costs; and•terrorism, war or civil unrest.Unfavorable legal, regulatory, economic or political changes such as those described above could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.The threat of terrorism has historically adversely affected the lodging industry generally and these adverse effects may worsen if there are further terrorist events.The threat of terrorism has historically caused a significant decrease in hotel occupancy and average daily rates due to disruptions in business and leisure travel patterns and concerns about travel safety. Future terrorist acts, terrorism alerts or outbreaks of hostilities could have a negative effect on travel and on our business.Seasonal variations in revenue at our hotels and resorts can be expected to cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenues.Revenues for hotels and resorts in tourist areas generally are substantially greater during tourist season than other times of the year. To the extent that cash flows from operations are insufficient during any quarter, due to seasonal fluctuations in revenues, we may have to enter into short-term borrowings to fund operations, pay interest expense or make distributions to our stockholders.16Table of ContentsWe consider acquisition opportunities in the ordinary course of our business, which may not perform as anticipated.In the ordinary course of our business and when our liquidity position permits, we consider strategic acquisitions. The acquisition of properties involves risks, including the risk that the acquired property will not perform as anticipated and the risk that any actual costs for rehabilitating, repositioning, renovating and improving identified in the pre-acquisition process will exceed estimates. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations could increase our compliance costs and liabilities and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Our properties are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local environmental laws. Under these laws, courts and government agencies have the authority to require us, as owner of a contaminated property, to clean up the property, even if the contamination pre-dated our ownership of the property or we did not know of or were not responsible for the contamination. These laws may also force a party who owned a property at the time of its contamination, but no longer owns the property, to be responsible for the cleanup. In addition to the costs of clean-up, environmental contamination can affect the value of a property and, therefore, an owner’s ability to borrow funds using the property as collateral or to sell the property. These laws can also impose liability on parties that arrange for the disposal of wastes at an offsite property that becomes contaminated.In addition, some of these environmental laws can restrict the use of a property and place conditions on various activities. An example would be laws that require a business using hazardous substances on a property (such as swimming pool and lawn care chemicals) to manage them carefully and to notify local officials that the chemicals are being used. Failure to comply with these laws could result in fines and penalties or expose us to third-party liability.From time to time, the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, designates certain sites affected by hazardous substances as Superfund sites. Superfund sites can cover large areas, affecting many different parcels of land. The EPA may choose to pursue parties regardless of their actual contribution to the contamination. The Los Angeles Marriott Burbank Airport hotel, which we sold in September 2006, is located within a Federal Superfund site. The area was designated as a Superfund site because groundwater underneath the area is contaminated. We have not been named, and do not expect to be named, as a party responsible for the clean-up of the groundwater contamination; however, there can be no assurance regarding potential future developments concerning this site.The presence of any environmental conditions at our properties could result in remediation and other costs and liabilities and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We have reviewed environmental reports prepared by our consultants and consultants retained by our lenders at various times, which disclose certain conditions on our properties and the use of hazardous substances in operation and maintenance activities that could pose a risk of environmental contamination or impose liability on us. At some facilities these include on-site dry cleaning operations, petroleum storage in underground storage tanks, past tank removals and the known or suspected presence of asbestos, mold or thorium.The costs to clean up a contaminated property or defend against a related claim or to comply with environmental laws could be material and could adversely affect the funds available for distributions to our stockholders. Future laws or regulations may impose material environmental liabilities on us, the current environmental condition of our properties may be affected by the condition of the properties in the vicinity of our properties (such as the presence of leaking underground storage tanks) or by third parties unrelated to us and currently unknown environmental liabilities related to our properties may be identified.If we are not in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, we may face significant costs to modify our properties and/or be subject to fines.Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, all public accommodations must meet various federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with the ADA’s requirements could require removal of access barriers, and non-compliance could result in the U.S. government imposing fines or in private litigants winning damages. If we are required to make substantial modifications to our hotels and resorts, whether to comply with the ADA or other changes in governmental rules and regulations, our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. 17Table of ContentsRisks related to our organization and structureProvisions of our organizational documents may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of our company and may depress our stock price.In order for us to maintain our status as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of outstanding shares of our stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of each taxable year. To make sure that we will not fail to qualify as a REIT under this test, subject to some exceptions, our charter prohibits any individual from owning beneficially or constructively more than 9.8% of the value of outstanding shares of our stock or more than 9.8% of the value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our capital stock in excess of the ownership limit without the consent of our board of directors will be void, and could result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust. This ownership limitation may prevent an acquisition of control of our company by a third party without our board of directors’ grant of an exemption from the ownership limitation, even if our stockholders believe the change of control is in their interest.Our charter authorizes our board of directors to cause us to issue up to 350,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 150,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Additionally, our charter authorizes our board of directors to amend our charter without stockholder approval to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of any class or series of our stock that we have authority to issue, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Issuances of additional shares of stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, including transactions at a premium over the market price of our stock, even if stockholders believe that a change of control is in their interest.Our charter permits the removal of a director only upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast, generally in the election of directors, and provides that vacancies may only be filled by a majority of the remaining directors. Our bylaws require advance notice of a stockholder’s intention to nominate directors or present business for consideration by stockholders at an annual meeting of our stockholders. These provisions may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or change in control that involves a premium price for our common stock or that for other reasons may be desired by our stockholders.Provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of our company.Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price of such shares, including:•“business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes special super majority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations;•“control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares; and•“unsolicited takeover” provisions of Maryland law permit our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to implement a classified board as well as impose other restrictions on the ability of a third party to acquire control.We have opted out of the control share provisions of the MGCL pursuant to a provision in our bylaws. However, we may, by amendment to our bylaws, become subject to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future.You have limited control as a stockholder regarding any changes we make to our policies.Our board of directors approves our major policies, including our investment objectives, financing, growth and distributions. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies without a vote of our stockholders. This means that our stockholders will have limited control over changes in our policies.18Table of ContentsTax risksIf we fail to maintain our status as a REIT, our distributions will not be deductible by us, and our income will be subject to U.S. federal taxation, reducing our earnings available for distribution.We currently qualify as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to herein as the Tax Code. The requirements for this qualification, however, are complex and require annual distributions to our stockholders tied to our taxable income (irrespective of available cash from operations), quarterly asset tests and diversity of stock ownership rules. If we fail to meet these requirements, our distributions to our stockholders will not be deductible by us and we will have to pay a corporate U.S. federal level tax on our income. This would substantially reduce our cash available to pay distributions to our stockholders. In addition, such a tax liability might cause us to borrow funds, liquidate some of our investments or take other steps, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Moreover, if our REIT status is terminated because of our failure to meet a technical REIT requirement or if we voluntarily revoke our election, we would be disqualified from electing treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which REIT status is lost.Even if we maintain our status as a REIT, we may become subject to U.S. federal, state, local or foreign taxes on our income or property reducing our earnings available for distribution.Even if we maintain our status as a REIT, we may become subject to U.S. federal income and other taxes and state and local taxes. For example, if we have net income from a “prohibited transaction,” that income will be subject to a 100% tax. A “prohibited transaction” is, in general, the sale or other disposition of inventory or property, other than foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We may also decide to retain income we earn from the sale or other disposition of our property and pay U.S. federal income tax directly on that income. In that event, our stockholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. However, stockholders that are tax-exempt, such as charities or qualified pension plans, would have no benefit from their deemed payment of that tax liability. In addition, the REIT rules impose various taxes and penalties on transactions with taxable REIT subsidiaries that are determined not to be priced at an arm’s length, and on a REIT that has to avail itself of certain cure provisions in the Tax Code for the failure to meet all of the REIT qualification requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to satisfy the REIT requirements, or that it will be in our best interests to continue to do so.We may also be subject to state and local taxes on our income or property, either directly or at the level of our operating partnerships or at the level of the other companies through which we indirectly own our assets. Foreign countries impose taxes on our hotels and resorts and our operations within their jurisdictions. We may not fully benefit from a foreign tax credit against our U.S. federal income tax liability for the foreign taxes we pay. As a result, our foreign taxes may reduce our income and available cash flow from our foreign hotels and resorts, which, in turn, could reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.Certain of our entities, including our foreign entities, are subject to corporate income taxes. Consequently, these entities are subject to potential audit. There can be no assurance that certain tax positions the entities have taken will not be challenged by taxing authorities and if the challenge is successful, could result in increased tax expense, which could be material.If the leases of our hotels and resorts to our taxable REIT subsidiaries, or Affiliate Leases, are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, we would fail to maintain our status as a REIT.To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy two gross income tests under which specified percentages of our gross income must be certain types of passive income, such as rent. The rent paid pursuant to our Affiliate Leases will only qualify for purposes of the gross income tests if such Affiliate Leases are respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes and are not treated as service contracts, transfers between unconsolidated affiliates or some other type of arrangement. If our Affiliate Leases are not respected as true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT.Our taxable REIT subsidiaries, or TRSs, are subject to special rules that may result in increased taxes.The REIT has to pay a 100% penalty tax on certain payments that it receives from a TRS if the economic arrangements between the REIT and the TRS are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. The Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, may successfully assert that the economic arrangements of any of our inter-company transactions, including our Affiliate Leases, are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties.19Table of ContentsWe may be required to pay a penalty tax upon the sale of a hotel.The U.S. federal income tax provisions applicable to REITs provide that any gain realized by a REIT on the sale of property held as inventory or other property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a “prohibited transaction” that is subject to a 100% penalty tax. Under current laws, unless a sale of real property qualifies for a safe harbor, the question of whether the sale of a hotel (or other property) constitutes the sale of property held primarily for sale to customers is generally a question of the facts and circumstances regarding a particular transaction. We may make sales that do not satisfy the requirements of the safe harbors or the IRS may successfully assert that one or more of our sales are prohibited transactions; consequently, we may be required to pay a penalty tax if we have gains on any such transactions.Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates applicable to certain dividends.The maximum federal tax rate for certain dividends payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for this reduced rate. Although this legislation does not directly adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular qualified corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less competitive than investments in stock of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the comparative value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock.Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities.To remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy requirements and tests under the tax law concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego or limit attractive business or investment opportunities. For example, we may not lease to our TRS any hotel where gaming or wagering activities are conducted. Therefore, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely to maximize profits.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.None.20Table of Contents