Risk Factors RISK RELATING TO THE CORPORATION’S BUSINESS FirstBank is operating under the Order with the FDIC and OCIF and we are operating under the Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve. On June 4, 2010, we announced that FirstBank agreed to the Order, dated as of June 2, 2010, issued by the FDIC and OCIF, and we entered into the Agreement, dated as of June 3, 2010, with the Federal Reserve. The Agreements stem from the FDIC’s examination as of the period ended June 30, 2009 conducted during the second half of 2009. Although our regulatory capital ratios exceeded the required established minimum capital ratios for a “well-capitalized” institution as of December 31, 2010, because of the Order, FirstBank cannot be regarded as “well-capitalized” as of December 31, 2010. Under the Order, FirstBank has agreed to address specific areas of concern to the FDIC and OCIF through the adoption and implementation of procedures, plans and policies designed to improve the safety and soundness of FirstBank. These actions include, among others, (1) having and retaining qualified management; (2) increased participation in the affairs of FirstBank by its board of directors; (3) development and implementation by FirstBank of a capital plan to attain a leverage ratio of at least 8%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 10% and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 12%; (4) adoption and implementation of strategic, liquidity and fund management and profit and budget plans and related projects within certain timetables set forth in the Order and on an ongoing basis; (5) adoption and implementation of plans for reducing FirstBank’s positions in certain classified assets and delinquent and non-accrual loans; (6) refraining from lending to delinquent or classified borrowers already obligated to FirstBank on any extensions of credit so long as such credit remains uncollected, except where FirstBank’s failure to extend further credit to a particular borrower would be detrimental to the best interests of FirstBank, and any such additional credit is approved by FirstBank’s board of directors; (7) refraining from accepting, increasing, renewing or rolling over brokered CDs without the prior written approval of the FDIC; (8) establishment of a comprehensive 30 Table of Contents policy and methodology for determining the allowance for loan and lease losses and the review and revision of FirstBank’s loan policies, including the non-accrual policy; and (9) adoption and implementation of adequate and effective programs of independent loan review, appraisal compliance and an effective policy for managing FirstBank’s sensitivity to interest rate risk. The Written Agreement, which is designed to enhance our ability to act as a source of strength to FirstBank, requires that we obtain prior Federal Reserve approval before declaring or paying dividends, receiving dividends from FirstBank, making payments on subordinated debt or trust preferred securities, incurring, increasing or guaranteeing debt (whether such debt is incurred, increased or guaranteed, directly or indirectly, by us or any of our non-banking subsidiaries) or purchasing or redeeming any capital stock. The Written Agreement also requires us to submit to the Federal Reserve a capital plan and progress reports, comply with certain notice provisions prior to appointing new directors or senior executive officers and comply with certain payment restrictions on severance payments and indemnification restrictions. We anticipate that we will need to continue to dedicate significant resources to our efforts to comply with the Agreements, which may increase operational costs or adversely affect the amount of time our management has to conduct our operations. If we need to continue to recognize significant reserves, cannot raise additional capital, or cannot accomplish other contemplated alternative capital preservation strategies, including among others, an accelerated deleverage strategy, we and FirstBank may not be able to comply with the minimum capital requirements included in the capital plans required by the Agreements. FirstBank expects to be in compliance with the minimum capital ratios under the FDIC Order by June 30, 2011. If, at the end of any quarter, we do not comply with any specified minimum capital ratios, we must notify our regulators. We must notify the Federal Reserve within 30 days of the end of any quarter of our inability to comply with a capital ratio requirement and submit an acceptable written plan that details the steps we will take to comply with the requirement. FirstBank must immediately notify the FDIC of its inability to comply with a capital ratio requirement and, within 45 days, it must either increase its capital to comply with the capital ratio requirements or submit a contingency plan to the FDIC for its sale, merger or liquidation. In the event of a liquidation of FirstBank, the holders of our outstanding preferred stock would rank senior to the holders of our common stock with respect to rights upon any liquidation of First BanCorp. If we fail to comply with the Agreements, we may become subject to additional regulatory enforcement action up to and including the appointment of a conservator or receiver for FirstBank. In many cases when a conservator or receiver is appointed for a wholly owned bank, the bank holding company files for bankruptcy protection. Additional capital resources may not be available when needed or at all. Due to our financial results over the past two years, we need to access the capital markets in order to raise additional capital to absorb future credit losses due to the distressed economic environment and potential further deterioration in our loan portfolio, to maintain adequate liquidity and capital resources, to finance future growth, investments or strategic acquisitions and to implement the capital plans required by the Agreements. We have been taking steps for over six months to obtain additional capital. If we are unable to obtain additional necessary capital or otherwise improve our financial condition in the near future, or are unable to accomplish other alternate capital preservation strategies, which could allow us to meet the minimum capital requirements included in the capital plans required by the Agreements, we will be required to notify our regulators and take the additional steps described above, which may include submitting a contingency plan to the FDIC for the sale, liquidation or merger of FirstBank. Certain funding sources may not be available to us and our funding sources may prove insufficient and/or costlier to replace deposits and support future growth. FirstBank relies primarily on its issuance of brokered CDs, as well as customer deposits and advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank, to pay its operating expenses and interest on its debt, to maintain its lending activities and to replace certain maturing liabilities. As of December 31, 2010, we had $6.3 billion in brokered CDs outstanding, representing approximately 52% of our total deposits, and a reduction from $7.6 billion at year end 2009. Approximately $3 billion brokered CDs mature in 2011, and the average term to maturity of the retail brokered CDs outstanding as of December 31, 2010 was approximately 1.3 years. Approximately 4% of the principal value of these certificates is callable at our option. 31 Table of Contents Although FirstBank has historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as desired, we may not be able to replace these funds in the future if our financial condition or general market conditions were to change or the FDIC did not approve our request to issue brokered CDs as required by the Order. The Order requires FirstBank to obtain FDIC approval prior to issuing, increasing, renewing or rolling over brokered CDs and to develop a plan to reduce its reliance on brokered CDs. Although the FDIC has issued temporary approvals permitting FirstBank to renew and/or roll over certain amounts of brokered CDs maturing through June 30, 2011, the FDIC may not continue to issue such approvals, even if the requests are consistent with our plans to reduce the reliance on brokered CDs, and, even if issued, such approvals may not be for amounts of brokered CDs sufficient for FirstBank to meet its funding needs. The use of brokered CDs has been particularly important for the funding of our operations. If we are unable to issue brokered CDs, or are unable to maintain access to our other funding sources, our results of operations and liquidity would be adversely affected. Alternate sources of funding may carry higher cost than sources currently utilized. If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources, profitability would be adversely affected. Although we consider currently available funding sources to be adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt financing in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. Any additional debt financing requires the prior approval from the Federal Reserve, and the Federal Reserve may not approve such additional debt. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or on acceptable terms. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, our credit ratings and our credit capacity. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on acceptable terms, our profitability and future prospects could be adversely affected. We depend on cash dividends from FirstBank to meet our cash obligations, but the Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve prohibits the receipt of such dividends without prior Federal Reserve approval, which may adversely affect our ability to fulfill our obligations. As a holding company, dividends from FirstBank have provided a substantial portion of our cash flow used to service the interest payments on our trust preferred securities and other obligations. As outlined in the Written Agreement, we cannot receive any cash dividends from FirstBank without prior written approval of the Federal Reserve. Our inability to receive approval from the Federal Reserve to receive dividends from FirstBank at that time as we need such amount would adversely affect our ability to fulfill our obligations at that time. We cannot pay interest, principal or other sums on subordinated debentures or trust preferred securities without prior Federal Reserve approval, which could result in a default. The Written Agreement provides that we cannot declare or pay any dividends (including on the Series G Preferred Stock) or make any distributions of interest, principal or other sums on subordinated debentures or trust preferred securities without prior written approval of the Federal Reserve. With respect to our $231.9 million of outstanding subordinated debentures, we have provided, within the time frame prescribed by the indentures governing the subordinated debentures, notices to the trustees of the subordinated debentures of our election to interest extension periods. Under the indentures, we have the right, from time to time, and without causing an event of default, to defer payments of interest on the subordinated debentures by extending the interest payment period at any time and from time to time during the term of the subordinated debentures for up to twenty consecutive quarterly periods. We have elected to defer the interest payments that were due in September and December 2010 and the interest payments that are due in March 2011 because the Federal Reserve advised us that it would not provide its approval for the payment of interest on these subordinated debentures. We may elect additional extension periods for future quarterly interest payments. Our inability to receive approval from the Federal Reserve to make distributions of interest, principal or other sums on our trust preferred securities and subordinated debentures could result in a default under those obligations if we need to defer such payments for longer than twenty consecutive quarterly periods. Banking regulators could take additional adverse action against us. 32 Table of Contents We are subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve. We are a bank holding company and a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”). As such, we are permitted to engage in a broader spectrum of activities than those permitted to bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. At this time, under the BHC Act, we may not be able to engage in new activities or acquire shares or control of other companies. As of December 31, 2010, we and FirstBank continue to satisfy all applicable established capital guidelines. However, we have agreed to regulatory actions by our banking regulators that include, among other things, the submission of a capital plan by FirstBank to comply with more stringent capital requirements under an established time period in the capital plan. Our regulators could take additional action against us if we fail to comply with the Agreements, including the requirements of the submitted capital plans. Additional adverse action against us by our primary regulators could adversely affect our business. Credit quality may result in future additional losses. The quality of our credits has continued to be under pressure as a result of continued recessionary conditions in the markets we serve that have led to, among other things, higher unemployment levels, much lower absorption rates for new residential construction projects and further declines in property values. Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers and counterparties and the value of the assets securing our loans or underlying our investments. When the credit quality of the customer base materially decreases or the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers changes materially, our business, financial condition, allowance levels, asset impairments, liquidity, capital and results of operations are adversely affected. We have a significant construction loan portfolio held for investment, in the amount of $700.6 million as of December 31, 2010, mostly secured by commercial and residential real estate properties. Due to their nature, these loans entail a higher credit risk than consumer and residential mortgage loans, since they are larger in size, concentrate more risk in a single borrower and are generally more sensitive to economic downturns. Although we ceased new originations of construction loans decreasing collateral values, difficult economic conditions and numerous other factors continue to create volatility in the housing markets and have increased the possibility that additional losses may have to be recognized with respect to our current nonperforming assets. Furthermore, given the current slowdown in the real estate market, the properties securing these loans may be difficult to dispose of if they are foreclosed. Although we have taken a number of steps to reduce our credit exposure, at December 31, 2010, we still had $263.1 million in nonperforming construction loans held for investments and it is possible that we will continue to incur in credit losses over the near term, which would adversely impact our overall financial performance and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and we may be required to materially increase our allowance, which may adversely affect our capital, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the risk of loss from loan defaults and foreclosures with respect to the loans we originate. We establish a provision for loan losses, which leads to reductions in our income from operations, in order to maintain our allowance for inherent loan losses at a level which our management deems to be appropriate based upon an assessment of the quality of the loan portfolio. Although our management strives to utilize its best judgment in providing for loan losses, our management may fail to accurately estimate the level of inherent loan losses or may have to increase our provision for loan losses in the future as a result of new information regarding existing loans, future increases in non-performing loans, changes in economic and other conditions affecting borrowers or for other reasons beyond our control. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional classified loans and loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. While we have substantially increased our allowance for loan and lease losses over the past two years, we may have to recognize additional provisions in 2011 to cover future credit losses in the portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s estimates based upon various assumptions and judgments as to specific credit risks, evaluation of industry concentrations, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates and judgments regarding current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates prove to be incorrect, our allowance for credit 33 Table of Contents losses may not be sufficient to cover losses in our loan portfolio and our expense relating to the additional provision for credit losses could increase substantially. Any such increases in our provision for loan losses or any loan losses in excess of our provision for loan losses would have an adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. Given the difficulties facing some of our largest borrowers, these borrowers may fail to continue to repay their loans on a timely basis or we may not be able to assess accurately any risk of loss from the loans to these borrowers. Changes in collateral values of properties located in stagnant or distressed economies may require increased reserves. Substantially all of our loan portfolio is located within the boundaries of the U.S. economy. Whether the collateral is located in Puerto Rico, the USVI, the BVI or the U.S. mainland, the performance of our loan portfolio and the collateral value backing the transactions are dependent upon the performance of and conditions within each specific real estate market. Recent economic reports related to the real estate market in Puerto Rico indicate that certain pockets of the real estate market are subject to readjustments in value driven not by demand but more by the purchasing power of the consumers and general economic conditions. In southern Florida, we have been seeing the negative impact associated with low absorption rates and property value adjustments due to overbuilding. We measure the impairment based on the fair value of the collateral, if collateral dependent, which is generally obtained from appraisals. Updated appraisals are obtained when we determine that loans are impaired and are updated annually thereafter. In addition, appraisals are also obtained for certain residential mortgage loans on a spot basis based on specific characteristics such as delinquency levels, age of the appraisal and loan-to-value ratios. The appraised value of the collateral may decrease or we may not be able to recover collateral at its appraised value. A significant decline in collateral valuations for collateral dependent loans may require increases in our specific provision for loan losses and an increase in the general valuation allowance. Any such increase would have an adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. Worsening in the financial condition of critical counterparties may result in higher losses than expected. The financial stability of several counterparties is critical for their continued financial performance on covenants that require the repurchase of loans, posting of collateral to reduce our credit exposure or replacement of delinquent loans. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by the counterparty. Any such losses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Interest rate shifts may reduce net interest income. Shifts in short-term interest rates may reduce net interest income, which is the principal component of our earnings. Net interest income is the difference between the amounts received by us on our interest-earning assets and the interest paid by us on our interest-bearing liabilities. When interest rates rise, the rate of interest we pay on our liabilities rises more quickly than the rate of interest that we receive on our interest-bearing assets, which may cause our profits to decrease. The impact on earnings is more adverse when the slope of the yield curve flattens, that is, when short-term interest rates increase more than long-term interest rates or when long-term interest rates decrease more than short-term interest rates. Increases in interest rates may reduce the value of holdings of securities. Fixed-rate securities acquired by us are generally subject to decreases in market value when interest rates rise, which may require recognition of a loss (e.g., the identification of other-than-temporary impairment on our available-for-sale or held-to-maturity investments portfolio), thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. Market-related reductions in value also influence our ability to finance these securities. Increases in interest rates may reduce demand for mortgage and other loans. Higher interest rates increase the cost of mortgage and other loans to consumers and businesses and may reduce demand for such loans, which may negatively impact our profits by reducing the amount of loan origination income. Accelerated prepayments may adversely affect net interest income. 34 Table of Contents Net interest income of future periods will be affected by our decision to deleverage our investment securities portfolio to preserve our capital position. Also, net interest income could be affected by prepayments of mortgage-backed securities. Acceleration in the prepayments of mortgage-backed securities would lower yields on these securities, as the amortization of premiums paid upon acquisition of these securities would accelerate. Conversely, acceleration in the prepayments of mortgage-backed securities would increase yields on securities purchased at a discount, as the amortization of the discount would accelerate. These risks are directly linked to future period market interest rate fluctuations. Also, net interest income in future periods might be affected by our investment in callable securities. Changes in interest rates may reduce net interest income due to basis risk. Basis risk is the risk of adverse consequences resulting from unequal changes in the difference, also referred to as the “spread,” between two or more rates for different instruments with the same maturity and occurs when market rates for different financial instruments or the indices used to price assets and liabilities change at different times or by different amounts. The interest expense for liability instruments such as brokered CDs at times does not change by the same amount as interest income received from loans or investments. The liquidity crisis that erupted in late 2008, and that slowly began to subside during 2009 and 2010, caused a wider than normal spread between brokered CD costs and London Interbank Offered Rates (“LIBOR”) for similar terms. This, in turn, has prevented us from capturing the full benefit of a decrease in interest rates, as the floating rate loan portfolio re-prices with changes in the LIBOR indices, while the brokered CD rates decreased less than the LIBOR indices. To the extent that such pressures fail to subside in the near future, the margin between our LIBOR-based assets and the higher cost of the brokered CDs may compress and adversely affect net interest income. If all or a significant portion of the unrealized losses in our investment securities portfolio on our consolidated balance sheet were determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired, we would recognize a material charge to our earnings and our capital ratios would be adversely affected. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, we recognized a total of $1.7 million and $1.2 million, respectively, in other-than-temporary impairments. To the extent that any portion of the unrealized losses in our investment securities portfolio is determined to be other-than-temporary and, in the case of debt securities, the loss is related to credit factors, we would recognize a charge to earnings in the quarter during which such determination is made and capital ratios could be adversely affected. Even if we do not determine that the unrealized losses associated with this portfolio require an impairment charge, increases in these unrealized losses adversely affect our tangible common equity ratio, which may adversely affect credit rating agency and investor sentiment towards us. This negative perception also may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or might increase our cost of capital. Valuation and other-than-temporary impairment determinations will continue to be affected by external market factors including default rates, severity rates and macro-economic factors. Downgrades in our credit ratings could further increase the cost of borrowing funds. Both the Corporation and the Bank suffered credit rating downgrades in 2010. The Corporation’s credit as a long-term issuer is currently rated CCC+ with negative outlook by Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) and CC by Fitch Ratings Limited (“Fitch”). At the FirstBank subsidiary level, long-term issuer ratings are currently B3 by Moody’s Investor Service (“Moody’s”), six notches below their definition of investment grade; CCC+ with negative outlook by S&P seven notches below their definition of investment grade, and CC by Fitch, eight notches below their definition of investment grade.. During 2010, the Corporation suffered credit rating downgrades from S&P (from B to CCC+), and Fitch (from B- to CC) rating services. The FirstBank subsidiary also experienced credit rating downgrades in 2010: Moody’s from B1 to B3, S&P from B to CCC+, and Fitch from B to CC. Furthermore, in June 2010 Moody’s placed the Bank on “Credit Watch Negative”. The Corporation does not have any outstanding debt or derivative agreements that would be affected by the recent credit downgrades. Furthermore, given our non-reliance on corporate debt or other instruments directly linked in terms of pricing or volume to credit ratings, the liquidity of the Corporation so far has not been affected in any material way by the downgrades. The Corporation’s ability to access new non-deposit sources of funding, however, could be adversely affected by these credit ratings and any additional downgrades. 35 Table of Contents The Corporation’s liquidity is contingent upon its ability to obtain new external sources of funding to finance its operations. The Corporation’s current credit ratings and any further downgrades in credit ratings can hinder the Corporation’s access to external funding and/or cause external funding to be more expensive, which could in turn adversely affect results of operations. Also, changes in credit ratings may further affect the fair value of certain liabilities and unsecured derivatives that consider the Corporation’s own credit risk as part of the valuation. These debt and financial strength ratings are current opinions of the rating agencies. As such, they may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies as a result of changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, our risk management policies and procedures may be inadequate and operational risk could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. We may fail to identify and manage risks related to a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, operational risk, interest-rate risk, trading risk, fiduciary risk, legal and compliance risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. We have adopted various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risk. While we currently believe that our risk management policies and procedures are effective, the Order required us to review and revise our policies relating to risk management, including the policies relating to the assessment of the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses and credit administration. Any improvements to our controls, procedures, policies and systems may not be adequate to identify and manage the risks in our various businesses. If our risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to keep pace with changes in the financial markets or our businesses or for other reasons, we could incur losses, suffer reputational damage or find ourselves out of compliance with applicable regulatory mandates or expectations. We may also be subject to disruptions from external events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market settlement functions. In addition, our customers, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. Should these events affect us, or the customers, vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our consolidated results of operations could be negatively affected. When we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies related to operational losses, we may be unable to accurately estimate our potential exposure, and any reserves we establish to cover operational losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition for the periods in which we recognize the losses. Competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and we may not be able to hire people or retain them, particularly in light of uncertainty concerning evolving compensation restrictions applicable to banks but not applicable to other financial services firms. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could adversely affect our business because of the loss of their skills, knowledge of our markets and years of industry experience and, in some cases, because of the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Similarly, the loss of key employees, either individually or as a group, can adversely affect our customers’ perception of our ability to continue to manage certain types of investment management mandates. Further increases in the FDIC deposit insurance premium or required reserves may have a significant financial impact on us. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured depository institutions up to certain limits. The FDIC charges insured depository institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”). Current economic conditions have resulted in higher bank failures and expectations of future bank failures. In the event of a bank failure, the FDIC takes control of a failed bank and ensures payment of deposits up to insured limits (which have recently been increased) using the resources of the DIF. The FDIC is required by law to maintain adequate funding of the DIF, and the FDIC may increase premium assessments to maintain such funding. 36 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act signed into law on July 21, 2010 requires the FDIC to increase the DIF’s reserves against future losses, which will necessitate increased deposit insurance premiums that are to be borne primarily by institutions with assets of greater than $10 billion. On October 19, 2010, the FDIC addressed plans to bolster the DIF by increasing the required reserve ratio for the industry to 1.35 percent (ratio of reserves to insured deposits) by September 30, 2020, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The FDIC also proposed to raise its industry target ratio of reserves to insured deposits to 2 percent, 65 basis points above the statutory minimum, but the FDIC does not project that goal to be met until 2027. On November 9, 2010, the FDIC approved two proposed rules that would amend its current deposit insurance assessment regulations. The first proposed rule would implement a provision in the Dodd-Frank Act that changes the assessment base for deposit insurance premiums from one based on domestic deposits to one based on average consolidated total assets minus average Tier 1 capital. The proposed rule would also change the assessment rate schedules for insured depository institutions so that approximately the same amount of revenue would be collected under the new assessment base as would be collected under the current rate schedule and the schedules previously proposed by the FDIC in October 2010. The second proposed rule would revise the risk-based assessment system for all large insured depository institutions (generally, institutions with at least $10 billion in total assets). Under the proposed rule, the FDIC would use a scorecard method to calculate assessment rates for all such institutions. As discussed above, the FDIC has recently adopted a final rule that could significantly impacts the Bank’s insurance assessment. The FDIC may further increase FirstBank’s premiums or impose additional assessments or prepayment requirements in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act has removed the statutory cap for the reserve ratio, leaving the FDIC free to set this cap going forward. Although the precise impact of the proposed rules on us is not clear at this time, any future increases in assessments will decrease our earnings and could have a material adverse effect on the value of, or market for, our common stock. 37 Table of Contents We may not be able to recover all assets pledged to Lehman Brothers Special Financing, Inc. Lehman Brothers Special Financing, Inc. (“Lehman”) was the counterparty to First BanCorp on certain interest rate swap agreements. During the third quarter of 2008, Lehman failed to pay the scheduled net cash settlement due to us, which constituted an event of default under those interest rate swap agreements. We terminated all interest rate swaps with Lehman and replaced them with other counterparties under similar terms and conditions. In connection with the unpaid net cash settlement due as of December 31, 2010 under the swap agreements, we have an unsecured counterparty exposure with Lehman, which filed for bankruptcy on October 3, 2008, of approximately $1.4 million. This exposure was reserved in the third quarter of 2008. We had pledged collateral of $63.6 million with Lehman to guarantee our performance under the swap agreements in the event payment thereunder was required. The book value of pledged securities with Lehman as of December 31, 2010 amounted to approximately $64.5 million. We believe that the securities pledged as collateral should not be part of the Lehman bankruptcy estate given the facts that the posted collateral constituted a performance guarantee under the swap agreements and was not part of a financing agreement, and that ownership of the securities was never transferred to Lehman. Upon termination of the interest rate swap agreements, Lehman’s obligation was to return the collateral to us. During the fourth quarter of 2009, we discovered that Lehman Brothers, Inc., acting as agent of Lehman, had deposited the securities in a custodial account at JP Morgan Chase, and that, shortly before the filing of the Lehman bankruptcy proceedings, it had provided instructions to have most of the securities transferred to Barclays Capital (“Barclays”) in New York. After Barclays’s refusal to turn over the securities, during December 2009, we filed a lawsuit against Barclays in federal court in New York demanding the return of the securities. During February 2010, Barclays filed a motion with the court requesting that our claim be dismissed on the grounds that the allegations of the complaint are not sufficient to justify the granting of the remedies therein sought. Shortly thereafter, we filed our opposition motion. A hearing on the motions was held in court on April 28, 2010. The court, on that date, after hearing the arguments by both sides, concluded that our equitable-based causes of action, upon which the return of the investment securities is being demanded, contain allegations that sufficiently plead facts warranting the denial of Barclays’ motion to dismiss our claim. Accordingly, the judge ordered the case to proceed to trial. Subsequent to the court decision, the district court judge transferred the case to the Lehman bankruptcy court for trial. While we believe we have valid reasons to support our claim for the return of the securities, we may not succeed in our litigation against Barclays to recover all or a substantial portion of the securities. Upon such transfer, the Bankruptcy court began to entertain the pre-trial procedures including discovery of evidence. In this regard, an initial scheduling conference was held before the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York on November 17, 2010, at which time a proposed case management plan was approved. Discovery has commenced pursuant to that case management plan and is currently scheduled for completion by May 15, 2011, but this timing is subject to adjustment. Additionally, we continue to pursue our claim filed in January 2009 in the proceedings under the Securities Protection Act with regard to Lehman Brothers Incorporated in Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York. An estimated loss was not accrued as we are unable to determine the timing of the claim resolution or whether we will succeed in recovering all or a substantial portion of the collateral or its equivalent value. If additional relevant negative facts become available in future periods, a need to recognize a partial or full reserve of this claim may arise. Considering that the investment securities have not yet been recovered by us, despite our efforts in this regard, we decided to classify such investments as non-performing during the second quarter of 2009. Our businesses may be adversely affected by litigation. From time to time, our customers, or the government on their behalf, may make claims and take legal action relating to our performance of fiduciary or contractual responsibilities. We may also face employment lawsuits or other legal claims. In any such claims or actions, demands for substantial monetary damages may be asserted against us resulting in financial liability or an adverse effect on our reputation among investors or on customer demand for our products and services. We may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure to litigation risk when we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies. As a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements or judgments may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. 38 Table of Contents In the ordinary course of our business, we are also subject to various regulatory, governmental and law enforcement inquiries, investigations and subpoenas. These may be directed generally to participants in the businesses in which we are involved or may be specifically directed at us. In regulatory enforcement matters, claims for disgorgement, the imposition of penalties and the imposition of other remedial sanctions are possible. The resolution of legal actions or regulatory matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations for the quarter in which such actions or matters are resolved or a reserve is established. Our businesses may be negatively affected by adverse publicity or other reputational harm. Our relationships with many of our customers are predicated upon our reputation as a fiduciary and a service provider that adheres to the highest standards of ethics, service quality and regulatory compliance. Adverse publicity, regulatory actions, like the Agreements, litigation, operational failures, the failure to meet customer expectations and other issues with respect to one or more of our businesses could materially and adversely affect our reputation, ability to attract and retain customers or obtain sources of funding for the same or other businesses. Preserving and enhancing our reputation also depends on maintaining systems and procedures that address known risks and regulatory requirements, as well as our ability to identify and mitigate additional risks that arise due to changes in our businesses, the market places in which we operate, the regulatory environment and customer expectations. If any of these developments has a material adverse effect on our reputation, our business will suffer. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. Our financial statements are subject to the application of U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), which is periodically revised and expanded. Accordingly, from time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to promulgate new requirements that further interpret or seek to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions as well as to revise standards to expand disclosures. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in this Form 10-K. An assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting standards that we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, it may adversely affect our operating results. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under GAAP, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of the goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in the industry. The goodwill impairment evaluation process requires us to make estimates and assumptions with regards to the fair value of our reporting units. Actual values may differ significantly from these estimates. Such differences could result in future impairment of goodwill that would, in turn, negatively impact our results of operations and the reporting unit where the goodwill is recorded. We conducted our annual evaluation of goodwill during the fourth quarter of 2010. This evaluation is a two-step process. The Step 1 evaluation of goodwill allocated to the Florida reporting unit, which is one level below the United States Operations segment, indicated potential impairment of goodwill. The Step 1 fair value for the unit was below the carrying amount of its equity book value as of the October 1, 2010 valuation date, requiring the completion of Step 2. Step 2 required a valuation of all assets and liabilities of the Florida unit, including any recognized and unrecognized intangible assets, to determine the fair value of net assets. To complete Step 2, we 39 Table of Contents subtracted from the unit’s Step 1 fair value the determined fair value of the net assets to arrive at the implied fair value of goodwill. The results of the Step 2 analysis indicated that the implied fair value of goodwill exceeded the goodwill carrying value of $27 million, resulting in no goodwill impairment. If we are required to record a charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements because an impairment of the goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited or restricted. We have generated significant net operating losses (“NOLs”) as a result of our recent losses. We generally are able to carry NOLs forward to reduce taxable income for the subsequent 7 years (10 years with respect to losses incurred during taxable years 2005 through 2012). The provisions of the 2010 Code limits the use of carryforward losses in the case of a change in control. At this time we cannot determine whether our planned capital raise and issuance of common stock in exchange for the Series G Preferred Stock will constitute a change in control. Accordingly, we cannot ensure that our ability to use NOLs to offset income will not be limited in the future. We must respond to rapid technological changes, and these changes may be more difficult or expensive than anticipated. If competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing product and service offerings, technology and systems may become obsolete. Further, if we fail to adopt or develop new technologies or to adapt our products and services to emerging industry standards, we may lose current and future customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is changing rapidly and in order to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. These changes may be more difficult or expensive than we anticipate. RISK RELATED TO BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND OUR INDUSTRY Difficult market conditions have affected the financial industry and may adversely affect us in the future. Given that almost all of our business is in Puerto Rico and the United States and given the degree of interrelation between Puerto Rico’s economy and that of the United States, we are exposed to downturns in the U.S. economy. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past few years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial banks and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital from private and government entities, to merge with larger and stronger financial institutions and, in some cases, fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets in general and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including other financial 40 Table of Contents institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, erosion of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity in general. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and erosion of confidence in the financial markets has already adversely affected our industry and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and other financial institutions. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite the loans become less predictive of future behaviors. • The models used to estimate losses inherent in the credit exposure require difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of the borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation and which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the models. • Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in sales of mortgage loans to third parties (including mortgage loan securitization transactions with government-sponsored entities and repurchase agreements) on favorable terms, or at all, could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including deteriorating investor expectations. • Competitive dynamics in the industry could change as a result of consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. • We may be unable to comply with the Agreements, which could result in further regulatory enforcement actions. • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. • There may be downward pressure on our stock price. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, our ability to access capital and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Continuation of the economic slowdown and decline in the real estate market in the U.S. mainland and in Puerto Rico could continue to harm our results of operations. The residential mortgage loan origination business has historically been cyclical, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of shrinking volumes and industry-wide losses. The market for residential mortgage loan originations is currently in decline and this trend could also reduce the level of mortgage loans we may produce in the future and adversely affect our business. During periods of rising interest rates, refinancing originations for many mortgage products tend to decrease as the economic incentives for borrowers to refinance their existing mortgage loans are reduced. In addition, the residential mortgage loan origination business is impacted by home values. Over the past two years, residential real estate values in many areas of the U.S. have decreased significantly, which has led to lower volumes and higher losses across the industry, adversely impacting our mortgage business. 41 Table of Contents The actual rates of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on loans have been higher during the recent economic slowdown. Rising unemployment, higher interest rates and declines in housing prices have had a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to repay their mortgage loans. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could continue to harm our ability to sell loans, the prices we receive for loans, the values of mortgage loans held for sale or residual interests in securitizations, which could continue to harm our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any additional material decline in real estate values would further weaken the collateral loan-to-value ratios and increase the possibility of loss if a borrower defaults. In such event, we will be subject to the risk of loss on such real estate arising from borrower defaults to the extent not covered by third-party credit enhancement. Our business concentration in Puerto Rico imposes risks. We conduct our operations in a geographically concentrated area, as our main market is Puerto Rico. This imposes risks from lack of diversification in the geographical portfolio. Our financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on the economic conditions of Puerto Rico, where adverse political or economic developments, among other things, could affect the volume of loan originations, increase the level of non-performing assets, increase the rate of foreclosure losses on loans, and reduce the value of our loans and loan servicing portfolio. Our credit quality may be adversely affected by Puerto Rico’s current economic condition. A significant portion of our financial activities and credit exposure is concentrated in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and Puerto Rico’s economy continues to deteriorate. Since March 2006, a number of key economic indicators have shown that the economy of Puerto Rico has been in recession. Construction has remained weak since 2009 as Puerto Rico’s fiscal situation and decreasing public investment in construction projects affected the sector. For the ten-month period ended October 31, 2010, cement sales, which is an indicator of construction activity, were 22.7% lower than the same period in 2009. On March 12, 2010, the Puerto Rico Planning Board announced the release of Puerto Rico’s macroeconomic data for the fiscal year ended on June 30, 2009 (“Fiscal Year 2009”) and projections for the fiscal year ending on June 30, 2010 (“Fiscal Year 2010”) and for the fiscal year ending on June 30, 2011 (“Fiscal Year 2011”). Fiscal Year 2009 showed a reduction in the real gross national product (the “GNP”) of 3.7%, while the projections suggested with respect to the GNP a reduction of 3.6% for Fiscal Year 2010 and an increase of 0.4% for Fiscal Year 2011. The Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico Economic Activity Index, which is a coincident index consisting of four major monthly economic indicators, namely total payroll employment, total electric power consumption, cement sales and gas consumption, and which monitors the actual trend of Puerto Rico’s economy, reflected a decrease of 4.67% in the rate of contraction of Puerto Rico’s economy in the first quarter of Fiscal Year 2011 as compared to a decrease of 5.48% in the rate of contraction in the first quarter of Fiscal Year 2010. The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico government is currently addressing a fiscal deficit which in its initial stages was estimated at approximately $3.2 billion or over 30% of its annual budget. It is implementing a multi-year budget plan for reducing the deficit, as its access to the municipal bond market and its credit ratings depend, in part, on achieving a balanced budget. Some of the measures implemented by the government include reducing expenses, including public-sector employment through employee layoffs. Since the government is an important source of employment in Puerto Rico, these measures could have the effect of intensifying the current recessionary cycle. The Puerto Rico Labor Department reported an unemployment rate of 14.7% for December 2010, down from 15.4% in November, but slightly higher than 14.3% in December 2009. The economy of Puerto Rico is very sensitive to the price of oil in the global market. Puerto Rico does not have significant mass transit available to the public and most of its electricity is powered by oil, making it highly sensitive to fluctuations in oil prices. A substantial increase in its price could impact adversely the economy by reducing disposable income and increasing the operating costs of most businesses and government. Consumer spending is particularly sensitive to wide fluctuations in oil prices. This decline in Puerto Rico’s economy has resulted in, among other things, a downturn in our loan originations, an increase in the level of our non-performing assets, loan loss provisions and charge-offs, particularly in our construction and commercial loan portfolios, an increase in the rate of foreclosure loss on mortgage loans, and a 42 Table of Contents reduction in the value of our loans and loan servicing portfolio, all of which have adversely affected our profitability. If the decline in economic activity continues, there could be further adverse effects on our profitability. The above economic concerns and uncertainty in the private and public sectors may continue to have an adverse effect on the credit quality of our loan portfolios, as delinquency rates have increased, until the economy stabilizes. The failure of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by future failures of financial institutions and the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to different industries and counterparties and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, investment companies and other institutional clients. In certain of these transactions, we are required to post collateral to secure the obligations to the counterparties. In the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding involving one of such counterparties, we may experience delays in recovering the assets posted as collateral or may incur a loss to the extent that the counterparty was holding collateral in excess of the obligation to such counterparty. In addition, many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by our counterparty or client. In addition, the credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. Any losses resulting from our routine funding transactions may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may increase our costs and impact our business, governance structure, financial condition or results of operations. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation by multiple regulatory bodies. These regulations may affect the manner and terms of delivery of our services. If we do not comply with governmental regulations, we may be subject to fines, penalties, lawsuits or material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which may adversely affect our business operations. Changes in these regulations can significantly affect the services that we are asked to provide as well as our costs of compliance with such regulations. In addition, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to attract and retain customers. Current economic conditions, particularly in the financial markets, have resulted in government regulatory agencies and political bodies placing increased focus and scrutiny on the financial services industry. The U.S. government has intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to what has been commonly referred to as the financial crisis, by temporarily enhancing the liquidity support available to financial institutions, establishing a commercial paper funding facility, temporarily guaranteeing money market funds and certain types of debt issuances and increasing insurance on bank deposits. These programs have subjected financial institutions, particularly those participating in TARP, to additional restrictions, oversight and costs. In addition, new proposals for legislation are periodically introduced in the U.S. Congress that could further substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry, impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices, including in the areas of compensation, interest rates, financial product offerings and disclosures, and have an effect on bankruptcy proceedings with respect to consumer residential real estate mortgages, among other things. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. In recent years, regulatory oversight and enforcement have increased substantially, imposing additional costs and increasing the potential risks associated with our operations. If these regulatory trends continue, they could adversely affect our business and, in turn, our consolidated results of operations. 43 Table of Contents Financial services legislation and regulatory reforms may, if adopted, have a significant impact on our business and results of operations and on our credit ratings. We face increased regulation and regulatory scrutiny as a result of our participation in the TARP. On July 20, 2010, we issued Series G Preferred Stock to the U.S. Treasury in exchange for the shares of Series F Preferred Stock plus accrued and unpaid dividends pursuant to an exchange agreement with the U.S. Treasury dated as of July 7, 2010, as amended. We also issued to the U.S. Treasury an amended and restated warrant to replace the original warrant that we issued to the U.S. Treasury in January 2009 under the TARP. Pursuant to the terms of this issuance, we are prohibited from increasing the dividend rate on our common stock in an amount exceeding the last quarterly cash dividend paid per share, or the amount publicly announced (if lower), of common stock prior to October 14, 2008, which was $1.05 per share, without approval. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law, which significantly changes the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act includes, and the regulations to be developed thereunder will include, provisions affecting large and small financial institutions alike, including several provisions that will affect how community banks, thrifts, and small bank and thrift holding companies will be regulated in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, imposes new capital requirements on bank holding companies; changes the base for FDIC insurance assessments to a bank’s average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, rather than upon its deposit base, and permanently raises the current standard deposit insurance limit to $250,000; and expands the FDIC’s authority to raise insurance premiums. The legislation also calls for the FDIC to raise the ratio of reserves to deposits from 1.15% to 1.35% for deposit insurance purposes by September 30, 2020 and to “offset the effect” of increased assessments on insured depository institutions with assets of less than $10 billion. The Dodd-Frank Act also limits interchange fees payable on debit card transactions, establishes the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection as an independent entity within the Federal Reserve, which will have broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services, including deposit products, residential mortgages, home-equity loans and credit cards, and contains provisions on mortgage-related matters such as steering incentives, determinations as to a borrower’s ability to repay and prepayment penalties. The Dodd-Frank Act also includes provisions that affect corporate governance and executive compensation at all publicly-traded companies and allows financial institutions to pay interest on business checking accounts. The legislation also restricts proprietary trading, places restrictions on the owning or sponsoring of hedge and private equity funds, and regulates the derivatives activities of banks and their affiliates. The Collins Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, eliminates certain trust preferred securities from Tier 1 capital. TARP preferred securities are exempted from this treatment. In the case of certain trust preferred securities issued prior to May 19, 2010 by bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $15 billion or more as of December 31, 2009, these “regulatory capital deductions” are to be phased in incrementally over a period of three years beginning on January 1, 2013. This provision also requires the federal banking agencies to establish minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements that will apply to both insured banks and their holding companies. Regulations implementing the Collins Amendment must be issued within 18 months of July 21, 2010. These provisions, or any other aspects of current or proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial industry, if enacted or adopted, may impact the profitability of our business activities or change certain of our business practices, including the ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads, and could expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes to operations in order to comply, and could therefore also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our management is actively reviewing the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, many of which are to be phased in over the next several months and years, and assessing its probable impact on our operations. However, the ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on the financial services industry in general, and us in particular, is uncertain at this time. A separate legislative proposal would impose a new fee or tax on U.S. financial institutions as part of the 2010 budget plans in an effort to reduce the anticipated budget deficit and to recoup losses anticipated from the TARP. 44 Table of Contents Such an assessment is estimated to be 15-basis points, levied against bank assets minus Tier 1 capital and domestic deposits. It appears that this fee or tax would be assessed only against the 50 or so largest financial institutions in the U.S., which are those with more than $50 billion in assets, and therefore would not directly affect us. However, the large banks that are affected by the tax may choose to seek additional deposit funding in the marketplace, driving up the cost of deposits for all banks. The administration has also considered a transaction tax on trades of stock in financial institutions and a tax on executive bonuses. The U.S. Congress has also adopted additional consumer protection laws such as the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009, and the Federal Reserve has adopted numerous new regulations addressing banks’ credit card, overdraft and mortgage lending practices. Additional consumer protection legislation and regulatory activity is anticipated in the near future. Internationally, both the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the Financial Stability Board (established in April 2009 by the Group of Twenty (“G-20”) Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors to take action to strengthen regulation and supervision of the financial system with greater international consistency, cooperation and transparency) have committed to raise capital standards and liquidity buffers within the banking system (“Basel III”). On September 12, 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision agreed to the calibration and phase-in of the Basel III minimum capital requirements (raising the minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio to 4.5% and minimum Tier 1 equity ratio to 6.0%, with full implementation by January 2015) and introducing a capital conservation buffer of common equity of an additional 2.5% with implementation by January 2019. The U.S. federal banking agencies generally support Basel III. The G-20 endorsed Basel III on November 12, 2010. Such proposals and legislation, if finally adopted, would change banking laws and our operating environment and that of our subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways. We cannot determine whether such proposals and legislation will be adopted, or the ultimate effect that such proposals and legislation, if enacted, or regulations issued to implement the same, would have upon our financial condition or results of operations. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, our earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. On January 6, 2010, the member agencies of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, which includes the Federal Reserve, issued an interest rate risk advisory reminding banks to maintain sound practices for managing interest rate risk, particularly in the current environment of historically low short-term interest rates. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adverse. The imposition of additional property tax payments in Puerto Rico may further deteriorate our commercial, consumer and mortgage loan portfolios. On March 9, 2009, the Governor of Puerto Rico signed into law the Special Act Declaring a State of Fiscal Emergency and Establishing an Integral Plan of Fiscal Stabilization to Save Puerto Rico’s Credit, Act No. 7 (the “Credit Act”). The Credit Act imposes a series of temporary and permanent measures, including the imposition of a 0.591% special tax applicable to properties used for residential (excluding those exempt as detailed in the Credit Act) and commercial purposes, and payable to the Puerto Rico Treasury Department. This temporary measure will be effective for tax years that commenced after June 30, 2009 and before July 1, 2012. The imposition of this special property tax could adversely affect the disposable income of borrowers from the commercial, consumer and mortgage loan portfolios and may cause an increase in our delinquency and foreclosure rates. 45 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO AN INVESTMENT IN THE CORPORATION’S SECURITIES Issuances of common stock to the U.S. Treasury and Bank of Nova Scotia (“BNS”) would dilute holders of our common stock, including purchasers of our common stock in the current offering. The issuance of at least $350 million of common stock in the current offering would satisfy the remaining substantive condition to our ability to compel the U.S. Treasury to convert the Series G Preferred Stock into approximately 29.2 million shares of common stock. The amended certificate of designation of the Series G preferred stock provides that such capital raise be completed within a nine-month period from the issuance of the Series G preferred stock, which becomes due April 7, 2011. On April 11, 2011, the Corporation and the U.S. treasury agreed to extend the conversion right to October 7, 2011. This condition was recently revised pursuant to the First Amendment to the exchange agreement between us and the U.S. Treasury. The number of shares we issue upon conversion will increase if we sell shares of common stock at a price below 90% of the market price per share of common stock on the trading day immediately preceding the pricing date of the offering. In addition, the issuance of shares of common stock under the pending registration statement or otherwise and upon the conversion of the Series G Preferred Stock will enable BNS, pursuant to its anti-dilution rights in the stockholder agreement we entered into with BNS at the time of its acquisition of shares of our common stock in 2007 of approximately 10% of our then outstanding common stock (the “Stockholder Agreement”), to acquire additional shares of common stock so that it can maintain the same percentage of ownership in our common stock of approximately 10% that it owned prior to the completion of the exchange of shares of common stock for outstanding shares of Series A through E Preferred Stock. On November 18, 2010, we received an executed amendment to the Stockholder Agreement from BNS that provides BNS the right to decide whether to exercise its anti-dilution rights after we give aggregate notice of our issuance of shares of common stock to the participants in the Series A through E Preferred Stock exchange, and/or in an offering for $350 million shares of common stock and/or to the U.S. Treasury upon the conversion of the Series G Preferred Stock. Finally, the U.S. Treasury has an amended and restated warrant to purchase 389,483 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $10.878 per share, which is subject to adjustment as discussed below. This warrant, which replaced a warrant exercisable at a price of $154.05 per share that the U.S. Treasury acquired when it acquired the Series F Preferred Stock, was restated at the time we issued the Series G Preferred Stock in exchange for the Series F Preferred Stock. Like the original warrant, the amended and restated warrant has an anti-dilution right that requires an adjustment to the exercise price for, and the number of shares underlying, the warrant. This adjustment is necessary under various circumstances including if we issue shares of common stock for consideration per share that is lower than the initial conversion price of the Series G Preferred Stock, or $10.878, in an offering for $350 million of shares. The issuance of shares of common stock to the U.S. Treasury and to BNS would affect our current stockholders in a number of ways, including by: • diluting the voting power of the current holders of common stock; and • diluting the earnings per share and book value per share of the outstanding shares of common stock. Finally, the additional issuances of shares of common stock may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. Issuance of additional equity securities in the public markets and other capital management or business strategies that we may pursue could depress the market price of our common stock and result in the dilution of our common stockholders, including purchasers of our common stock in the current offering. Generally, we are not restricted from issuing additional equity securities, including our common stock. We may choose or be required in the future to identify, consider and pursue additional capital management strategies to bolster our capital position. We may issue equity securities (including convertible securities, preferred securities, and options and warrants on our common or preferred stock) in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, to adjust our leverage ratio, to address regulatory capital concerns, to restructure currently outstanding debt or equity securities or to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants. Future issuances of our equity securities, including common stock, in any transaction that we may pursue may dilute the interests of our existing common stockholders, including purchasers of our common stock in any equity offering, and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 46 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations and volatility. The stock markets have recently experienced high levels of volatility. These market fluctuations have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations and volatility because of factors specifically related to our businesses and may continue to fluctuate or further decline. Factors that could cause fluctuations, volatility or a decline in the market price of our common stock, many of which could be beyond our control, include the following: • our ability to comply with the Agreements; • any additional regulatory actions against us; • our ability to complete an equity offering, the conversion into common stock of the Series G Preferred Stock or any other issuances of common stock; • changes or perceived changes in the condition, operations, results or prospects of our businesses and market assessments of these changes or perceived changes; • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors, including any future failures of banks in Puerto Rico; • our announcement of the sale of common stock at a particular price per share; • changes in governmental regulations or proposals, or new governmental regulations or proposals, affecting us, including those relating to the current financial crisis and global economic downturn and those that may be specifically directed to us; • the continued decline, failure to stabilize or lack of improvement in general market and economic conditions in our principal markets; • the departure of key personnel; • changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us; • market assessments as to whether and when an equity offering and the sale of newly issued shares to BNS will be completed; and • the public perception of the banking industry and its safety and soundness. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NYSE and the market for commercial banks and other financial services companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that sometimes have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. Our suspension of dividends may have adversely affected and may further adversely affect our stock price and could result in the expansion of our board of directors. In March 2009, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve issued a supervisory guidance letter intended to provide direction to bank holding companies (“BHCs”) on the declaration and payment of dividends, capital redemptions and capital repurchases by BHCs in the context of their capital planning process. The letter reiterates the long-standing Federal Reserve supervisory policies and guidance to the effect that BHCs should only pay dividends from current earnings. More specifically, the letter heightens expectations that BHCs will inform and consult with the Federal Reserve supervisory staff on the declaration and payment of dividends that exceed earnings for the period for which a dividend is being paid. In consideration of the financial results reported for the second quarter ended June 30, 2009, we decided, as a matter of prudent fiscal management and following the Federal Reserve guidance, to suspend payment of common stock dividends and dividends on our Preferred Stock and Series G Preferred Stock. Our Agreement with the Federal Reserve precludes us from declaring any dividends without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. We cannot anticipate if and when the payment of dividends might be reinstated. 47 Table of Contents This suspension may have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our stock price. Further, because dividends on our Series A through Series E Preferred Stock were not paid before January 31, 2011 (18 monthly dividend periods after we suspended dividend payments in August 2009), the holders of that preferred stock have the right to appoint two additional members to our board of directors until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been declared and paid in full. Any member of the Board of Directors appointed by the preferred stockholders is required to vacate its office if the Corporation returns to payment of dividends in full for twelve consecutive monthly dividend periods. If we do not raise gross proceeds of at least $350 million in one or more equity offerings, we would not be able to fulfill the remaining substantive condition required for us to compel the conversion of the Series G Preferred Stock into common stock, which may adversely affect investor interest in us and will require us to continue to accrue dividends payable on the Series G Preferred Stock. If we are unable to sell a number of shares that results in gross proceeds to us of at least $350 million, we would not be able to fulfill the remaining substantive condition required for us to compel the conversion of the shares of Series G Preferred Stock that the U.S. Treasury now owns. That inability would mean that our ratios of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets and tangible common equity to tangible assets, which are ratios that investors are likely to consider in making investment decisions, would not benefit from the increase in outstanding common equity resulting from the conversion. In addition, our inability to convert the Series G Preferred Stock would mean that we would continue to need to accrue dividends on the Series G Preferred Stock, which are 5% per year until January 16, 2014 (or $21.2 million per year on an aggregate basis), and 9% per year thereafter (or $38.2 million per year on an aggregate basis) until the Series G Preferred Stock automatically converts into common stock on July 7, 2017, if it is still outstanding at that time. RISKS RELATED TO THE RIGHTS OF HOLDERS OF OUR COMMON STOCK COMPARED TO THE RIGHTS OF HOLDERS OF OUR DEBT OBLIGATIONS AND SHARES OF PREFERRED STOCK The holders of our debt obligations, the shares of Preferred Stock still outstanding and the Series G Preferred Stock will have priority over our common stock with respect to payment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up and with respect to the payment of dividends. In any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of First BanCorp, our common stock would rank below all debt claims against us and claims of all of our outstanding shares of preferred stock, including the shares of Series A through E Preferred Stock that were not exchanged for common stock in the exchange offer, which has a liquidation preference of approximately $63 million, and the Series G Preferred Stock, which has a liquidation preference of approximately $424.2 million, if we cannot compel the conversion of the Series G Preferred Stock into common stock. As a result, holders of our common stock will not be entitled to receive any payment or other distribution of assets upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of First BanCorp until after all our obligations to our debt holders have been satisfied and holders of senior equity securities and trust preferred securities have received any payment or distribution due to them. In addition, we are required to pay dividends on our preferred stock before we pay any dividends on our common stock. Holders of our common stock will not be entitled to receive payment of any dividends on their shares of our common stock unless and until we obtain the Federal Reserve’s approval to resume payments of dividends on the shares of outstanding preferred stock. Dividends on our common stock have been suspended and you may not receive funds in connection with your investment in our common stock without selling your shares of our common stock. The Written Agreement that we entered into with the Federal Reserve prohibits us from paying any dividends or making any distributions without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive dividends as our board of directors may declare them out of funds legally available for payment of such dividends. We have suspended dividend payments on our common stock since August 2009. Furthermore, so long as any shares of preferred stock remain outstanding and until we obtain the Federal Reserve’s approval, we 48 Table of Contents cannot declare, set apart or pay any dividends on shares of our common stock (i) unless any accrued and unpaid dividends on our preferred stock for the twelve monthly dividend periods ending on the immediately preceding dividend payment date have been paid or are paid contemporaneously and the full monthly dividend on our preferred stock for the then current month has been or is contemporaneously declared and paid or declared and set apart for payment and, (ii) with respect to our Series G Preferred Stock, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods, including the latest completed dividend period, on all outstanding shares have been declared and paid in full. Prior to January 16, 2012, unless we have redeemed or converted all of the shares of Series G Preferred Stock or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series G Preferred Stock to third parties, the consent of the U.S. Treasury will be required for us to, among other things, increase the dividend rate per share of common stock above $1.05 or repurchase or redeem equity securities, including our common stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Also, we are a bank holding company and our ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent also on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. Moreover, the Federal Reserve has issued a policy statement stating that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. In the current financial and economic environment, the Federal Reserve has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy and has discouraged dividend pay-out ratios that are at the 100% or higher level unless both asset quality and capital are very strong. In addition, the terms of our outstanding junior subordinated debt securities held by trusts that issue trust preferred securities prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on our capital stock, including our common stock and preferred stock, or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if we have given notice of our election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. We elected to defer the interest payments that would have been due in September, December 2010 and March 2011 and may make similar elections with respect to future quarterly interest payments. Offerings of debt, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, or preferred equity securities, which would likely be senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Subject to any required approval of our regulators, if our capital ratios or those of our banking subsidiary fall below the required minimums, we or our banking subsidiary could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Our board of directors is authorized to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock from time to time without any action on the part of the stockholders. Our board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or upon our dissolution, winding up and liquidation and other terms. If we issue preferred shares in the future that have a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, or if we issue preferred shares with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 