Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations and their financial results elsewhere in this report, the most significant factors affecting Wesco’s operations are listed below. These factors could cause Wesco’s actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking and other statements contained in this report and in the other periodic reports and other filings Wesco makes with the SEC, as well as in news releases, annual reports and other communications that Wesco makes from time to time. Wesco is dependent for its investment and all other capital allocation decisions on a few key people. Investment decisions and all other capital allocation decisions are made for Wesco’s businesses by Charles T. Munger, chairman of the board of directors, president and CEO of Wesco, and vice chairman of the board of directors of Berkshire Hathaway, age 82, in consultation with Warren E. Buffett, chairman of the board of directors and CEO of Berkshire Hathaway, age 75. If for any reason the services of those key personnel, particularly Mr. Buffett, were to become unavailable to Wesco, there could be a materially adverse effect on the Company. However, Berkshire’s board of directors has identified three current Berkshire subsidiary managers who are capable of being CEO of Berkshire, Wesco’s parent company. Berkshire’s Board has agreed on a replacement for Mr. Buffett should a replacement be needed currently. Its board continually monitors this matter and could alter its current view in the future. Management of Wesco believes that the Berkshire board’s succession plan mitigates this risk. 15 Unless Wesco can reinvest a large amount currently invested in cash equivalents at attractive returns, future returns on shareholders’ equity will probably be less than those of the past. Wesco’s consolidated balance sheet reflects total assets of $2.7 billion as of yearend 2005. Of that amount, more than $1 billion has been invested in cash equivalents and fixed-maturity investments since early in 2003. Unless those funds can be attractively reinvested in acquisitions, equity securities or other long-term instruments of the type that have been responsible for the long-term growth of Wesco’s shareholders’ equity, future returns on shareholders’ equity will probably be less than those of the past. Due to the current size of Wesco and its parent, Berkshire Hathaway, Wesco’s opportunities for growing shareholders’ equity are unlikely to be as attractive as in the past. Wesco’s Wes-FIC subsidiary is dependent upon the Berkshire Insurance Group for its management and personnel, and for opportunities to participate with the Group in reinsurance contracts representing essentially the entirety of its reinsurance business, as well as a significant portion of its insurance business to date. Since the incorporation of Wes-FIC in 1985, its insurance and reinsurance business, other than that conducted by its Kansas Bankers Surety subsidiary, has been limited principally to participation with members of the Berkshire Insurance Group in contracts for the reinsurance of risks of unaffiliated property and casualty insurance companies. Wes-FIC’s operations are managed by National Indemnity Company, a member of the Berkshire Insurance Group; it has no employees of its own. In the event the Berkshire Insurance Group were to cease operating Wes-FIC’s business or to significantly curtail Wes-FIC’s participation with it in reinsurance contracts, Wes-FIC would be required to look elsewhere for personnel who would conduct and manage its operations, and/or seek to continue its insurance business in a different manner, possibly by acquisition. Inasmuch as Wesco and its subsidiaries, including Wes-FIC, are also subsidiaries of Berkshire Hathaway through Berkshire Hathaway’s 80.1%-ownership of Wesco, Wesco does not foresee a time when Berkshire Hathaway would not continue operating its insurance business. Wesco’s tolerance for risk in its insurance businesses may result in a high degree of volatility in periodic reported earnings. Wes-FIC participates with members of the Berkshire Insurance Group in certain reinsurance contracts in which significant risk is periodically assumed. The Berkshire Insurance Group has indicated that it continues to be willing to assume more risk than any other insurer has knowingly taken on. Although Wes-FIC’s reinsurance currently in force does not subject it to super-catastrophe risks, it has procedures in place for the immediate acceptance of participations in catastrophic excess of loss reinsurance, which could subject it to large amounts of losses from mega-catastrophes such as hurricanes or earthquakes, if offered to it by the Berkshire Insurance Group, so long as the Berkshire Insurance Group participates in such reinsurance activities to a greater degree. The tolerance for significant losses may in certain future periods result in significant losses. This policy may result in a high degree of volatility in Wesco’s periodic reported earnings. The degree of estimation error inherent in the process of estimating property and casualty insurance loss reserves may result in a high degree of volatility in periodic reported earnings. In the insurance business, premiums are charged today for promises to pay covered losses in the future. The principal cost associated with premium revenue is claims. However, it will literally take decades before all losses that have occurred as of the balance sheet date will be reported and settled. Although Wesco believes that loss reserve balances are adequate to cover losses, Wesco will not truly know whether the premiums charged for the coverages provided are sufficient until well after the balance sheet date. Wesco’s objective is to generate underwriting profits over the long term. Estimating insurance claim costs is inherently imprecise. Wesco’s reserve estimates are subject to revision, so adjustments to reserve estimates can have a material effect on periodic reported earnings. 16 Wesco’s insurance subsidiaries’ investments are unusually concentrated. Compared to other insurers, Wesco’s insurance subsidiaries may keep an unusually high percentage of their assets in common stocks and diversify their portfolios far less than is conventional. A significant decline in the stock market or in the price of major investees could produce a large decrease in Wesco’s shareholders’ equity, and could precipitate recognition of such losses in the statement of earnings. Decreases in values of equity investments could have a materially adverse effect on Wesco’s book value per share. Each of Wesco’s operating businesses faces intense competitive pressures. Each of Wesco’s operating businesses faces intense competitive pressures within its respective market. While Wesco’s businesses are managed with the objective of achieving sustainable growth over the long term through developing and strengthening competitive advantages, many factors, including market changes and technology, could erode or impede those competitive advantages. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive. Many insurers price their business more to provide immediate cash flow than profitability. Competition occurs not only with respect to price, but also to service, the ability to adapt to meet needs of customers as changes occur, reputation, and often, the need to satisfy customers’ expectations that insurers have sufficient capital strength to ensure that they will be viable when called upon to pay large losses in the future. Because of the disciplined underwriting standards of the Berkshire Insurance Group, Wes-FIC does not enter into insurance or reinsurance activities that do not provide the expectation of acceptable underwriting profitability. Thus, the volume of written premiums will continue to vary significantly from period to period. CORT competes not only with regional and local furniture rental businesses, but also with furniture businesses offering “lease purchase” or “rent-to-own” programs, as well as with national, regional and local furniture retailers. Competitive factors include price, furniture style and condition, lease terms, speed of delivery and overall customer service. Precision Steel’s annual sales volume is a small fraction of the domestic steel service industry’s. Precision Steel competes not only with other service centers, but also with mills that supply metal to the service centers. Sales competition exists in the areas of price, quality, availability, speed of delivery, and customer service. Competitive pressure has been intensified by imports, a shift to production abroad and an increasing tendency of domestic manufacturers to use less costly materials in making products. Precision Steel’s subsidiary’s toolroom specialty business also faces strong competition, mainly based on price. In addition to the foregoing risk factors inherent in Wesco’s operations, Wesco’s shareholders face a market liquidity risk because the daily trading volume of Wesco’s shares on the American Stock Exchange and Pacific Stock Exchange is relatively low. In addition to the risks facing Wesco in its business operations, investors wishing to purchase or sell shares of its capital stock face market price risks because the daily AMEX and PSE trading volume of Wesco’s shares is relatively low. An order for the purchase or sale of a large number of Wesco shares could significantly affect the price at which the order is executed. An investment in Wesco is not an investment in Berkshire Hathaway. From time to time there is an erroneous report by an analyst or reporter that an investor wishing to purchase Berkshire Hathaway common stock can simply purchase shares of Wesco stock at a lower price. Berkshire Hathaway is the parent of Wesco. Wesco’s operations differ significantly from those of Berkshire Hathaway, and its shares may trade at a significantly different price relative to its intrinsic value than do those of Berkshire Hathaway. In addition to the risk factors affecting Wesco’s operations, Berkshire Hathaway has risk factors of its own. Investors wishing to invest in shares of 17 Berkshire Hathaway cannot do so by purchasing Wesco shares. They should carefully read Berkshire Hathaway’s published financial statements and filings with the SEC. Special note about forward-looking statements. Certain written or oral representations of management stated in this annual report or elsewhere constitute “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as contrasted with statements of historical fact. Forward-looking statements include statements which are predictive in nature, or which depend upon or refer to future events or conditions, or which include words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, estimates, may, or could, or which involve hypothetical events. Forward-looking statements are based on information currently available and are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those characterized as being likely or possible to occur. Such statements should be considered judgments only, not guarantees, and Wesco’s management assumes no duty, nor has it any specific intention, to update them. Actual events and results may differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in forward-looking statements due to a number of factors. The principal important risk factors that could cause Wesco’s actual performance and future events and actions to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those reported in this section, but also to changes in insurance laws or regulations, changes in income tax laws or regulations, and changes in general economic and market factors that affect the prices of investment securities or the industries in which Wesco and its affiliates do business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 