Risk Factors Certain risk factors that may affect the Corporation’s future results of operations are discussed below. Risks Relating to the Corporation’s Business Banking regulators could take adverse action against the Corporation The Corporation is subject to supervision and regulation by the FED. The Corporation is a bank holding company that qualifies as a financial holding corporation. As such, the Corporation is permitted to engage in a broader spectrum of activities than those permitted to bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. To continue to qualify as a financial holding corporation, each of the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries must continue to qualify as “well-capitalized” and “well-managed.” As of December 31, 2007, the Corporation and its banking subsidiaries continue to satisfy all applicable capital guidelines. This, however, does not prevent banking regulators from taking adverse actions against the Corporation as a result of the Consent Order or related internal control matters. If the Corporation were not to continue to qualify as a financial holding corporation, it might be 25 Table of Contents required to discontinue certain activities and may be prohibited from engaging in new activities without prior regulatory approval. The FED, in the performance of its supervisory and enforcement duties, has significant discretion and power to initiate enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. Failure of the Corporation to remain in compliance with the terms of the Consent Order could result in the imposition of additional cease and desist orders and/or in money penalties. Downgrades in the Corporation’s credit ratings could potentially increase the cost of borrowing funds The credit ratings of the Corporation and First Bank and their outstanding securities are subject to downgrades as a result of, among other things, their results and operations. For example, following the Corporation’s announcement on October 21, 2005 that the SEC had issued a formal order of investigation, the major rating agencies downgraded the Corporation’s and FirstBank’s ratings in a series of actions. In response to this announcement, Fitch Ratings, Ltd. lowered the Corporation’s long-term senior debt rating from BBB- to BB and placed the rating on negative outlook after removing it from Rating Watch Negative. Standard & Poors lowered the long-term senior debt and counterparty rating of FirstBank from BBB- to BB+ and placed the rating on stable outlook after removing it from Credit Watch with negative implications and Moody’s Investor Service lowered FirstBank’s long-term senior debt rating from Baa3 to Ba1 and placed the rating on negative outlook. Any future downgrades may adversely affect the Corporation’s and FirstBank’s ability to access capital and result in more stringent covenants and higher interest rates under the terms of any future indebtedness. These debt and financial strength ratings are current opinions of the rating agencies. As such, they may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies as a result of changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances. The Corporation’s liquidity is contingent upon its ability to obtain external sources of funding to finance its operations. Downgrades in credit ratings can hinder the Corporation’s access to external funding and/or cause external funding to be more expensive, which could in turn adversely affect the results of operations. Fluctuations in interest rates may impact the Corporation’s results of operations Increases in interest rates are the primary market risk affecting the Corporation. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, such as governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions that are beyond the control of the Corporation. From 2004 to 2007, increases in interest rates negatively affected the following areas of the Corporation’s business: • The net interest income; • The value of owned securities, including interest rate swaps; and • the volume of loans originated, particularly mortgage loans. Increases in interest rates may reduce net interest income Increases in short-term interest rates may reduce net interest income, which is the principal component of the Corporation’s earnings. Net interest income is the difference between the amount received by the Corporation on its interest-earning assets and the interest paid by the Corporation on its interest-bearing liabilities. When interest rates rise, the Corporation must pay more in interest on its liabilities while the interest earned on its assets does not rise as quickly. This may cause the Corporation’s profits to decrease. This adverse impact on earnings is greater when the slope of the yield curve flattens, that is, when short-term interest rates increase more than long-term rates. 26 Table of Contents Increases in interest rates may reduce the value of holdings of securities Fixed-rate securities entered into by the Corporation are generally subject to decreases in market value when interest rates rise, which may require recognition of a loss, (e.g., the identification of other-than-temporary impairment on its available for sale or held to maturity investments portfolio) thereby potentially affecting adversely the results of operations. Increases in interest rates may reduce demand for mortgage and other loans Higher interest rates increase the cost of mortgage and other loans to consumers and businesses and may reduce demand for such loans, which may negatively impact the Corporation’s profits by reducing the amount of loan origination income. Decreases in interest rates may increase the exercise of embedded calls in the investment securities portfolio Future net interest income could be affected by the Corporation’s holding of callable securities. The recent drop in the long end of the yield curve has the effect of increasing the probability of the exercise of embedded calls in the approximately $2.1 billion U.S. Agency securities portfolio that if substituted with new lower-yield investments may negatively impact the Corporation’s interest income. Decreases in interest rates may reduce net interest income due to the current unprecedented re-pricing mismatch of assets and liabilities tied to short-term interest rates (Basis Risk) Basis risk occurs when market rates for different financial instruments, or the indices used to price assets and liabilities, change at different times or by different amounts. Recent liquidity pressures affecting the U.S. financial markets have caused a wider than historical spread between brokered CDs costs and LIBOR rates for similar terms. This in turn, is preventing the Corporation from capturing the full benefit of recent drops in interest rates as the Corporation’s loan portfolio funded by LIBOR-based brokered CDs continues to maintain the same historical spread to short-term LIBOR rates. To the extent that such pressures fail to subside in the near future, the margin between the Corporation’s LIBOR-based assets and LIBOR-based liabilities may compress and adversely affect net interest income. The Corporation is subject to default risk on loans, which may adversely affect its results The Corporation is subject to the risk of loss from loan defaults and foreclosures with respect to the loans it originates. The Corporation establishes a provision for loan losses, which leads to reductions in its income from operations, in order to maintain its allowance for inherent loan losses at a level which its management deems to be appropriate based upon an assessment of the quality of its loan portfolio. Although the Corporation’s management utilizes its best judgment in providing for loan losses, there can be no assurance that management has accurately estimated the level of inherent loan losses or that the Corporation will not have to increase its provision for loan losses in the future as a result of future increases in non performing loans or for other reasons beyond its control. Any such increases in the Corporation’s provision for loan losses or any loan losses in excess of its provision for loan losses would have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s future financial condition and results of operations. Given the difficulties of the Corporation’s largest borrowers, Doral and R&G Financial, the Corporation can give no assurance that these borrowers will continue to repay their secured loans on a timely basis or that the Corporation will continue to be able to accurately assess any risk of loss from the loans to these financial institutions. The Corporation is subject to greater credit risk with respect to its portfolio of construction and commercial loans The Corporation invests in construction loans and mortgage loans secured by income-producing residential buildings and commercial properties through its banking subsidiaries. These loans are subject to greater credit risk than consumer and residential mortgage loans. These types of loans involve greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans because they are larger in size, concentrate more risk in a single borrower and are generally more sensitive to economic conditions. The properties securing these loans are also harder to dispose of in foreclosure. Changes in collateral valuation for properties located in stagnant or distressed economies may require increased reserves Substantially all of the loan portfolio of the Corporation is located within the boundaries of the U.S. economy. Whether the collateral is located in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands or the U.S. mainland, the performance of the Corporation’s loan portfolio and the collateral value backing the transactions are dependent upon the performance of and conditions within each specific area real estate market. Recent economic reports related to the real estate market in Puerto Rico indicate that certain pockets of the real estate market are subject to readjustments in value driven not by demand but more by the purchasing power of the consumers and general economic conditions. In South Florida we are seeing the negative impact associated with low absorption rates and property value adjustments due to overbuilding. A significant decline in collateral valuations for collateral dependent loans may require increases in 27 Table of Contents the Corporation’s specific provision for loan losses and an increase in the general valuation allowance. Any such increase would have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s future financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation’s business concentration in Puerto Rico imposes risks The Corporation conducts its operations in a geographically concentrated area, as its main market is Puerto Rico. This imposes risks from lack of diversification in the geographical portfolio. The Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on the economic conditions of Puerto Rico, where adverse political or economic developments, natural disasters, etc., could affect the volume of loan originations, increase the level of nonperforming assets, increase the rate of foreclosure losses on loans, and reduce the value of the Corporation’s loans and loan servicing portfolio. These factors could materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation had substantial secured loans to two local financial institutions, Doral and R&G, in the aggregate amount of $624.6 million and $932.0 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. First BanCorp’s credit quality may be adversely affected by Puerto Rico’s current economic condition Beginning in 2005 and continuing through 2007, a number of key economic indicators suggested that the economy of Puerto Rico was slowing down. Construction remained weak during 2007, as the combination of rising interest rates, the Commonwealth’s fiscal situation and decreasing public investment in construction projects affected the sector. During the period from January to November of the calendar year 2007, cement production, a real indicator of construction activity, declined by 11.7% as compared to the same period in 2006. As of September 2007, exports decreased by 11.7%, while imports decreased by 8.9 %, a negative trade, which continues since the first negative trade balance of the last decade was registered in November 2006. Tourism activity has also declined during fiscal year 2007. Total hotel registrations for the fiscal year 2007 declined 5.1 % as compared to the fiscal year 2006. During 2007 new vehicle sales decreased by 13%, the lowest since 1993. In 2007, average employment declined by 1.27% while the average number of unemployed increased by 3.30%; the unemployment rate increased to 11.2% when compared to the December 2006 unemployment rate of 10.2%. In general, the Puerto Rico economy continued its trend of decreasing growth, primarily due to weaker manufacturing, softer consumption and decreased government investment in construction. The above economic concerns and uncertainty in the private and public sectors may also have an adverse effect on the credit quality of the Corporation’s loan portfolios, as delinquency rates are expected to increase in the short-term, until the economy stabilizes. Also, a potential reduction in consumer spending may also impact growth in other interest and non-interest revenue sources of the Corporation. Rating downgrades on the Government of Puerto Rico’s debt obligations may affect the Corporation’s credit exposure Even though Puerto Rico’s economy is closely integrated to that of the U.S. mainland and its government and many of its instrumentalities are investment-grade rated borrowers in the U.S. capital markets, the current fiscal situation of the Government of Puerto Rico has led nationally recognized rating agencies to downgrade its debt obligations. In May 2006, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the Government’s general obligation bond rating to Baa3 from Baa2, and put the credit on “watch list” for possible further downgrades. The Commonwealth’s appropriation bonds and some of the subordinated revenue bonds were also downgraded by one notch and are now rated below investment grade at Ba1. Moody’s commented that this action reflects the Government’s strained financial condition, the ongoing political conflict and lack of agreement regarding the measures necessary to end the 28 Table of Contents government’s multi-year trend of financial deterioration. Standard & Poor’s Rating Services still rates the Government’s general obligations two notches above junk at BBB, and the Commonwealth’s appropriation bonds and some of the subordinated revenue bonds BBB-, still investment-grade rated. In July 2006, S&P and Moody’s affirmed their credit ratings on the Commonwealth debt, and removed the debt from their respective watch lists, thus reducing the probability of a downgrade in the near future. These actions resulted after the Government approved the budget for the 2007 fiscal year, which runs from July 2006 through June 2007 and included the establishment of a new sales tax. Revenues from the sales tax are to be dedicated primarily to fund the government’s operating expenses, and, to a lesser extent, to repay government debt and fund local municipal governments. Both rating agencies maintained the negative outlook for the Puerto Rico general obligation bonds. Factors such as the government’s ability to implement meaningful steps to curb operating expenditures, improve managerial and budgetary controls, and eliminate the government’s reliance on operating budget loans from the Government Development Bank of Puerto Rico will be key determinants of future rating improvement and restoration of a stable long-term outlook. A repeat of an impasse on future fiscal year Commonwealth budget agreements could result in negative ratings actions from the rating agencies. It is uncertain how the financial markets may react to any potential future ratings downgrade in Puerto Rico’s debt obligations. However, the fallout from the recent budgetary crisis and a possible ratings downgrade could adversely affect the value of Puerto Rico’s Government obligations. A prolonged economic slowdown or the decline in the real estate market in the U.S. mainland could harm the results of operations The residential mortgage loan origination business has historically been cyclical, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of shrinking volumes and industry-wide losses. The market for residential mortgage loan originations is currently in decline and this trend could also reduce the level of mortgage loans the Corporation may produce in the future and adversely impact our business. During periods of rising interest rates, refinancing originations for many mortgage products tend to decrease as the economic incentives for borrowers to refinance their existing mortgage loans are reduced. In addition, the residential mortgage loan origination business is impacted by home values. Over the past eighteen months, residential real estate values in many areas of the U.S. mainland have decreased greatly, which has led to lower volumes and higher losses across the industry, adversely impacting our mortgage business. The actual rates of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on loans could be higher during economic slowdowns. Rising unemployment, higher interest rates or declines in housing prices tend to have a greater negative effect on the ability of borrowers to repay their mortgage loans. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could harm the Corporation’s ability to sell loans, the prices the Corporation receives for loans, the values of mortgage loans held-for-sale or residual interests in securitizations, which could harm the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any material decline in real estate values would weaken the collateral loan-to-value ratios and increase the possibility of loss if a borrower defaults. In such event, the Corporation will be subject to the risk of loss on such mortgage asset arising from borrower defaults to the extent not covered by third-party credit enhancement. Changes in regulations and legislation could have a financial impact on First BanCorp As a financial institution, the Corporation is subject to the legislative and rulemaking authority of various regulatory and legislative bodies. Any change in regulations and/or legislation, whether in the United States or Puerto Rico, could have a financial impact on the results of operations of the Corporation. 29 Table of Contents Controversy surrounding parcels of land underlying a significant construction loan of the Corporation, Paseo Caribe, could have a significant effect on the Corporation’s results of operations - Litigation in connection with the Opinion of the Secretary of Justice of Puerto Rico The Corporation announced in a press release dated December 11, 2007, that the Secretary of Justice of Puerto Rico issued an opinion stating that various of the parcels of land upon which construction of the Paseo Caribe project is being conducted are of public domain and therefore not eligible for sale to private parties. The Corporation had further stated that, as a result of this opinion, First BanCorp (through its banking subsidiary FirstBank) had filed a declaratory judgment lawsuit in San Juan Superior Court requesting that the court declare that the tracts of land in question never constituted public domain property. After the filing of this action the Superior Court has held two hearings in which it has heard oral arguments and received briefs and evidence from all parties involved, including First BanCorp, the Department of Justice, the Paseo Caribe developer, the Hotel Development Corporation and Hilton Hotels. On February 8, 2008 the San Juan Superior Court issued its judgment ruling that the properties in question are not of public domain but legally belong to Paseo Caribe. This judgment will be followed by an appellate process until the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico, the court of last result in Puerto Rico, renders its final adjudications on this matter. The Corporation intends to pursue certain legal processes in order to expedite the final resolution of this matter by the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico. In terms of the construction, following the December 11, 2007 decision by the Secretary of Justice, the Regulations and Permits Board ("ARPE") issued a 60 days temporary suspension of the constuction permits. The temporary suspension of the construction permits expired on February 26, 2008, but upon such expiration ARPE followed with another order extending the suspension of the permits for an additional 60 days. On February 28, 2008, the Puerto Rico Supreme Court revoked ARPE's determination thus allowing the continuation of the construction of the Paseo Caribe project. - Details on the Financing of the Project The Corporation has approximately $114 million of financing outstanding with Paseo Caribe allocated to the various construction and development phases within the overall project. As it relates to the parcels of land that the Secretary of Justice deems of public domain, the amount of loans outstanding is approximately $47 million. The loans are current as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additionally, the mortgage liens on the tracts of land securing the Corporation’s loans are insured with title insurance policies purchased at the time of the closing of the financing. The title insurance covers any defect in title that includes title to the property being vested differently than stated in the policy, the title becoming non-marketable, or the invalidity or enforceability of the mortgage lien. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 