D. Risk factors The global economic and financial crisis. The global economic and financial market crisis has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and reduced corporate profits and capital spending, all of which has had and will continue to have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Demand for our products depends in large part upon the level of capital and maintenance expenditures by many of our customers and end users. Recent economic conditions have reduced the willingness or ability of our customers and prospective customers to commit funds to purchase our products and services, and may reduce their ability to pay for our products and services after purchase. Similarly, our suppliers may not be able to supply us with needed raw materials or components on a timely basis, may increase prices or go out of business, which could result in our inability to meet customer demand, fulfill our contractual obligations or affect our gross margins. We cannot predict the timing or duration of these negative market conditions or the timing or strength of any economic recovery. If the economy or markets in which we operate remain weak or deteriorate further, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely impacted. Effective cost control and maintenance of customer relationships and core resources. It is critical for us to appropriately align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions, to minimize the effect of economic downturns on our operations, and in particular, to continue to maintain our customer relationships, core resources and manufacturing capacity while protecting profitability and cash flow. If we are unable to align our cost structure in response to economic downturns on a timely basis, or if implementation of any cost structure adjustments has an adverse impact on our business or prospects, then our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected. Conversely, adjusting our cost structure to fit economic downturn conditions may have a negative effect on us during an economic upturn or periods of increasing demand for our products. If we have too aggressively reduced our costs, we may not have, or may not be able to obtain in a timely manner, sufficient engineering or manufacturing resources to capture new orders and meet customer demand. If we are unable to meet production or delivery schedules during a period of escalating demand because we have failed to effectively manage our resources or because we cut costs too aggressively, our relationships with our key customers could be adversely affected and there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Cost and availability of labor. There is an emerging trend of a shortage of supply of migrant workers in China, particularly in Guangdong Province where our factory is located. Both in numbers and in skill, the labor force in China cannot keep up with the current speed of economic development and labor organizations have begun to initiate industrial action to raise wages. We continually adjust salaries and fringe benefits in order to attract and retain an adequate labor force. This trend of labor shortages is expected to continue and will likely result in further increases in wages as companies seek to retain their existing work forces. In the coming year, we expect that both a potential shortage of labor and increasing costs will impact our manufacturing operations, which could adversely affect gross margins. Changes in the PRC’s labor law. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted new labor legislation called the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. It formalizes workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions. Considered one of the strictest labor laws in the world, among other things, this new law requires an employer to conclude an “open-ended employment contract” with any employee who either has worked for the employer for 10 years or more or has had two consecutive fixed-term contracts. An “open-ended employment contract” is in effect a lifetime, permanent contract, which can only be terminated in specified circumstances, such as a material breach of the employer’s rules and regulations, or for a serious dereliction of duty. Under this law, downsizing by 20% or more may occur only under specified circumstances, such as a restructuring undertaken pursuant to China’s Enterprise Bankruptcy Law, or where a company suffers serious difficulties in production and/or business operations. If the Company faces future periods of decline in business activity generally or adverse economic periods specific to the Company’s business, the Company could incur material severance payments to employees under this new law. This law can be expected to exacerbate the adverse effect of labor inflation on the Company’s economic environment and its results of operations and financial condition. Cancellation or delays in purchase orders placed by our customers. Sales to our customers are primarily based on purchase orders and forecasts we receive. We generally purchase and stock raw materials and components upon receiving orders; however, we will purchase the raw materials and components for certain customers based on their rolling forecasts. When there is an acute shortage of raw materials and components such as plastic resins and metal, we are required to purchase such raw materials on an occasional or continuous basis in the expectation of receiving purchase orders for products that use these raw materials and components. In the event the actual orders are delayed or cancelled, we would have increased inventory levels or possible write-downs of our raw material inventory that could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 4 Table of Contents Foreign sales, operations and assets. Substantially all of our products are currently manufactured in China and over 98% of the net book value of our total long-lived assets is located there. We sell products to companies based principally in North America, China and Europe. Consequently, our international operations and sales may be subject to the following risks, among others: • political and economic risks, including political instability, currency controls and exchange rate fluctuations; • changes in import/export regulations; • changes in the rate of inflation; • changes in tariff and freight rates; and • changes in tax rates. In particular, changes in tariff structures or other trade policies could adversely affect our customers or suppliers or decrease our competitors’ costs of production. Renminbi revaluation. We sell a significant portion of our products to North America customers FOB China. These sales are generally denominated in U.S. dollars. The majority of our expenses, including salaries and wages and other production and administrative costs are denominated in Hong Kong dollars and Chinese Renminbi. Although certain raw materials, material components and capital equipment are purchased using a variety of currencies, including the U.S. dollar, Chinese Renminbi, Japanese yen and EURO, the majority are purchased with Hong Kong dollars. The Hong Kong dollar is currently pegged to the U.S. dollar at a rate of approximately HK$7.8 to US$1.0. In the aggregate, we have not been significantly affected by exchange rate fluctuations and therefore have not hedged our positions. From 1998 until 2005, the People’s Bank of China (“PBOC”) kept the Renminbi’s exchange rate against the U.S. dollar steady at approximately 8.3 Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. In March 2005, China’s Premier introduced a number of conditions, including but not limited to, Chinese financial and economic stability that must be achieved before China could implement greater exchange flexibility. At that time the Premier indicated that the Renminbi was likely to be revalued, but gave no timetable for such revaluation. On July 21, 2005, the PBOC decided to abandon its policy of pegging the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar and instead decided to link the Renminbi to a basket of currencies. The PBOC also strengthened the exchange rate of the Renminbi to 8.11 to the U.S. dollar from 8.28 as the Chinese government took its first step towards a floating currency. During fiscal 2010 the Renminbi was allowed to appreciate to between 6.8245 and 6.8332 to the U.S. dollar and subsequently it has appreciated to 6.7883 as of July 31, 2010. This appreciation has made Chinese products more expensive for U.S. companies. To the extent our operations are based in China, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk with respect to the Renminbi, which could adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Credit terms in the PRC. Some of the Company’s major customers in the PRC are granted credit terms of up to 150 days. Most of the other customers are granted 60 days from the end of the month of Shipment. The Company obtains credit insurance when available but a default by any of our major customers in their obligation to pay us would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Government regulation. Our operations and assets in China are subject to significant political, economic, legal and other uncertainties. Any of the following could result from policy changes by the Chinese government and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition: • legal or regulatory changes, or changes in interpretation of current laws or regulations; • new labor laws restricting flexibility in employment and added social security costs; • confiscatory or increased taxation; • restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply; • import duties; • currency devaluations; or • expropriation of private enterprise. Under its current leadership, the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies, including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. In 2001, China was admitted to the World Trade Organization (“WTO”), and is now entitled to the full trading rights afforded a WTO member country. There can be no assurance, however, that China will continue to pursue and implement favorable economic reform policies, that such policies will be successful if pursued or that such policies will not be significantly altered from time to time without prior notice. 5 Table of Contents The municipal authorities in each township in China have a certain amount of discretion to impose or waive a large number of fees and taxes including value-added tax, stamp duty, licenses and permits. In the Company’s manufacturing location, it is subject to the laws and regulations of the township of Dongguan, Guangdong Province and the PRC. To the extent the government authorities decide to exercise their discretion to increase or impose new fees, our operations could be materially affected. Change in taxation. The Company is subject to a lower overall effective tax rate than some U.S. domiciled corporations because of the location of its business operations. We are incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and have subsidiaries incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, Hong Kong, China and the United States. Our executive and administrative offices are located in Hong Kong and our manufacturing facilities are in China. Our customers are located primarily in the United States and China. Changes in tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. One of our subsidiaries in China, Dongguan Wing Shing Electrical Products Factory Company Limited (“Dongguan Wing Shing”), was subject to a preferential tax rate of 27% (24% reduced tax rate plus 3% local income tax rate) for the calendar years ended December 31, 2007. Dongguan Wing Shing houses our manufacturing facilities that incur a significant portion of manufacturing overhead and the finished products manufactured at Dongguan Wing Shing are sold to our other subsidiaries. The transfer pricing used could be challenged by the tax authorities which could subject us to material increases in taxation. In fiscal 2004, we established a new subsidiary, Dongguan Lite Array Company Limited (“Dongguan Lite Array”), which is entitled to a tax concession period (“Tax Holiday”) whereby it is exempt from corporate income taxes for its first two profit-making years and is entitled to a 50% tax reduction for the succeeding three years. Dongguan Lite Array started its first profit-making year under its Tax Holiday for its calendar year ended December 31, 2007. During the 5th Session of the 10th National People’s Congress of the PRC, which was concluded on March 16, 2007, a new PRC Corporate Income Tax Law (the “New CIT Law”) was approved and became effective on January 1, 2008. The New CIT Law introduced a wide range of changes which included, but were not limited to, the unification of the income tax rate for domestic–invested and foreign–invested enterprises, apart from those qualified as high-tech enterprises, at 25%. Our former subsidiary in Macau, Pentalpha Macau Commercial Offshore Limited, which was liquidated in July 2008, was not subject to taxation in Macau in accordance with Macau tax regulations from inception through the year ended March 31, 2009. Dependence on major customers. Over 98.1% of our sales of home appliances and 51.9% of our consolidated net sales are to one customer, the Electrolux Group. Electrolux is not contractually obligated to purchase floor care products from us, and we only sell to them on the basis of individual purchase orders when received. Our five largest Electronic Components and EMS customers represent 59.8% and 98.0% of net sales, respectively, and 22.8% and 8.6%, respectively of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2010. We have no contractual arrangements with these customers and only sell to them based on purchase orders received. We expect that a limited number of customers will continue to represent a substantial portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. The loss of any of our major customers or a decrease or delay in orders or anticipated spending by such customers could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. Our largest customers could also engage in business combinations, which could increase their size, reduce their demand for our products as they recognize synergies or rationalize assets and increase or decrease the portion of our total sales concentration to any single customer. Cost of raw materials. We are dependent upon outside suppliers for all of our raw material needs, including plastic resins, and are subject to price increases in these raw materials. The plastic resins we use are derived from natural gas liquids, and prices of these plastic resins have fluctuated in line with the fluctuation in natural gas and crude oil prices, as well as the relative capacity, supply and demand for the resin and petrochemical intermediates from which plastic resins are produced. During fiscal 2010, the price of plastic decreased 10.6% overall but subsequently has increased as a result of the recovery in crude oil prices. We have no long-term supply contracts for the purchase of plastic resin, but we generally maintain a 30-day supply. We have limited ability to increase product prices in response to plastic resin or other material cost increases. We closely monitor crude oil prices that normally affect the price of plastic resin and our inventory levels to ensure we can complete our orders on hand. If our reserves are not sufficient for our production requirements, we have to buy plastic resin at potentially higher prices in order to meet our delivery schedules. There can be no assurance that we will be able to purchase the necessary quantities of plastic resin and other raw materials at reasonable prices. Any future increase in the cost of plastic resins or other raw materials or our continuing inability to pass the increased cost of these or other raw materials onto our customers or to purchase sufficient quantities of plastic resins will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Security of bank accounts in the PRC. The Company has a number of bank accounts in the PRC to satisfy lines of credit, exchange regulations and banking facilities and to support its operations. None of these accounts are insured by the government. In the event there was a credit crisis in the PRC or a run on the bank, our accounts would be vulnerable for loss and this would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Unsecured cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. We have cash and short-term cash equivalent instruments which are invested with third party financial institutions that may not be insured or exceed the insurance limits of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) or other government insurance agencies. While we make an effort to monitor the cash balances in our operating accounts and adjust the cash balances as appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or become subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. We do not experience any loss in our cash and 6 Table of Contents cash equivalent or lack of access to cash in our operating accounts. We also invest excess cash in immediately available and short-term interest bearing cash equivalent instruments. If a commercial bank or financial institution in which we have our funds deposited should become insolvent or be taken over by the FDIC or other governmental insurance agencies, we could have significant unrecoverable cash deposits. A loss in cash deposits would have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. New product category. In 2005, we entered the consumer electronic products business concentrating on display-oriented products. Our subsidiary, Global Display Limited (subsequently changed its name to Global Household Products Limited), developed a range of consumer products incorporating high-definition flat panel displays (“FPDs”) that utilized liquid crystal displays (“LCDs”), plasma display panels (“PDPs”), liquid crystal on silicon (“LCOS”), optical, and digital display technologies. Lite Array had been developing a range of display modules utilizing proprietary OLED technology. Since we had no commercial success in these new product categories and there was no assurance that we would do so in the future, we were required to provide for impairment of our long-lived assets and write down our inventory. Any future impairment or write-down of inventory arising from a lack of commercial success in a new product category would have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. New products and rapid technological change. The technology incorporated in many of our products, particularly consumer electronics, is characterized by rapid change in the marketplace. In addition, the emergence of new technologies can quickly render existing products obsolete or unmarketable. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards or consumer demand and successfully develop and introduce new or enhanced products that gain market acceptance will be a critical factor in our ability to grow and remain competitive. There can be no assurance that we will timely or successfully complete the development of new or enhanced products or successfully manage the transition from one product release to the next, or that our future products will achieve market acceptance. The failure to realize such goals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Proprietary technology; patent protection. We rely on a combination of internal procedures, nondisclosure agreements, intellectual property rights assignment agreements, as well as licenses, patents, trademarks and copyright law to protect our intellectual property and know-how. Our intellectual property rights may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. For example, we frequently explore and evaluate potential relationships and projects with other parties, which often requires that we provide the potential partner with confidential technical information. While confidentiality agreements are typically put in place, there is a risk the potential partner could violate the confidentiality agreement and use our technical information for its own benefit or the benefit of others or compromise the confidentiality. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products may be sold or manufactured do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. For example, laws in China may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States. Failure or inability to protect our proprietary information could result in a decrease in our sales or profitability. The protection of our intellectual property may require expensive investment in protracted litigation and the investment of substantial management time and there is no assurance we ultimately would prevail or that a successful outcome would lead to an economic benefit that is greater than the investment in the litigation. In addition, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property rights and know-how without our authorization or from independently developing intellectual property that is the same as or similar to ours, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in the United States. We compete in a number of industries that are small or specialized, which makes it easier for a competitor to monitor our activities and increases the risk that ideas will be stolen. The unauthorized use of our know-how by third parties could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, cause us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business or increase our expenses as we attempt to enforce our rights. Potential patent infringement or similar claims. Although it is our intention to avoid infringing or otherwise violating the intellectual property rights of others, third parties may nevertheless claim (and in the past have claimed) that our processes and products infringe their intellectual property and other rights. Our strategies of capitalizing on growing international demand as well as developing new innovative products across multiple business lines present significant infringement claim risks both internationally and in the United States as we expand the scope of our product offerings and markets. We compete with other companies for contracts in some small or specialized industries, which increases the risk that the other companies will develop overlapping technologies leading to an increased possibility that infringement claims will arise. Whether or not these claims have merit, we may be subject to costly and time-consuming legal proceedings, and this could divert our management’s attention from operating our businesses. In order to resolve such proceedings, we may need to obtain licenses from these third parties or substantially re-engineer or rename our products in order to avoid infringement. In addition, we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re-engineer or rename our products successfully. Product liability. We may be subject to substantial product liability costs if claims arise out of problems associated with our products. We provide a warranty for limited manufacturing defects to certain of our customers. We do not provide warranties, however, that extend to the ultimate consumers of the product. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to a suit by a consumer who uses one of our products if the product causes an injury to any person or does not perform properly. We maintain product liability insurance in an amount we believe is sufficient. There can be no assurance, however, that our insurance coverage will be adequate or that all product liability claims will be covered by our current product liability insurance. In addition, 7 Table of Contents these policies must be renewed annually. To date, we have not been subject to any material product liability claim. While we have been able to obtain product liability insurance in the past, premiums continue to increase in cost and may not be available in the future on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The failure to maintain insurance coverage, or a successful claim against us not covered by or in excess of the insurance coverage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, product liability claims, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, may have a material adverse effect on our business reputation. Product safety. We may be responsible for ensuring that our products are safe and satisfy all of the requirements of the consumer products safety commission (“CPSC”) in the United States. This may also apply to OEM products manufactured by us to customer specifications. In the event of a recall required by the CPSC, our customers may require us to provide replacement conforming units at our cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, quality reputation and results of operations. Product safety; delays in regulatory approval. Our products include several electrical components, which may cause fires if not properly installed. Although we have experienced no significant safety problems with our products in the past and believe that our products do not present safety risks, there can be no assurance that safety problems will not occur in the future. Prior to the commercial introduction of our products into the market, we always obtain approval of our products by at least one of the organizations engaged in testing product safety. The application process for securing these approvals requires a significant commitment of time and resources by our technical staff and could delay the introduction of our products. Our inability to obtain regulatory approval within the projected timeframe for commercial introduction of our products or other product introduction delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks of manufacturing in China; property damage. All of our products are manufactured at our factory complex located in Dongguan, China. In addition to the political and economic risks of operations in China, firefighting and disaster relief assistance in China is not as sophisticated as in certain Western countries. We currently maintain property damage insurance in the aggregate of approximately $80.9 million which covers our inventory, furniture, equipment, machinery and buildings and also maintain business interruption insurance in the aggregate of approximately $21.5 million for losses relating to our factory. Material damage to, or the loss of, our facilities due to fire, severe weather, flood, force majeure or other act of God or cause, even if insured against, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Impact of environmental regulations. We are subject to Chinese laws that regulate environmental quality, the utilization of natural resources and the reduction of pollution. Environmental regulation in China is currently evolving and could become more stringent or more stringently enforced in the future, which could require us to make substantial additional capital expenditures in the future to maintain compliance. As a manufacturer, we are subject to annual inspections by the local branch of the State Environment Protection Administration (“SEPA”). Although compliance with environmental regulations has not had a material adverse effect on us in the past, failure to comply with these laws or to pass an inspection in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Dependence on distributions from operating subsidiaries and currency fluctuation. We have no direct business operations, other than our ownership of our subsidiaries. If we decide to pay dividends in the future, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations would depend upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and our other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries may also be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including, among others, restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions. Since we do not engage in hedging or other similar transactions, extraordinary currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Concentration of ownership. Wing Shing Holdings Company Limited, a British Virgin Islands company (“Wing Shing Holdings”) and family members of directors of the Company beneficially own approximately 62.9% of our outstanding common shares (issued net of treasury shares). The share ownership of Wing Shing Holdings is held 44.0% by Kwong Ho Sham and 56.0% by our Chief Executive Officer, John Sham, both of whom are directors. Voting control of Wing Shing Holdings is held approximately 34.3% by Kwong Ho Sham and approximately 65.7% by John Sham. As a result, Wing Shing Holdings and its shareholders and their family members are in a position to control our activities and policies, including possessing the voting power to elect our board of directors and approve all matters requiring shareholder approval and the ability to generally direct our affairs. Service and enforcement of legal process. We are organized under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. All but two of our directors and executive officers reside outside the United States, and most of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for investors to effect service of process on these persons within the United States or to enforce against these persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts, including judgments predicated on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. In particular, judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States may be difficult to enforce in British Virgin Islands courts and it is uncertain whether British Virgin Islands courts will enter judgments in original actions brought in British Virgin Islands courts predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. 8 Table of Contents British Virgin Islands company. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the International Business Companies Act of the British Virgin Islands. Principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of our shareholders may differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in the United States or another jurisdiction. The rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as are the rights of shareholders in many other jurisdictions. Thus, our shareholders may have more relative difficulty protecting their interests against certain actions by our board of directors or principal shareholders than similarly situated shareholders of a corporation incorporated in another jurisdiction. Please see details under “Item 10—Additional Information.” Director actions without shareholder approval. Under our memorandum and articles of association and the laws of the British Virgin Islands, our memorandum and articles of association may be amended by our board of directors without shareholder approval. This includes: • increasing or reducing our authorized capital; • authorizing the issuance of different classes of shares, including preference shares; and • increasing or reducing the par value of our shares. Our ability to amend our memorandum and articles of association by a resolution of directors or a resolution of members could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of the Company without any further action by the shareholders including, but not limited to, a tender offer to purchase our common shares at a premium over then current market prices. Our status as a foreign private issuer. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended (the “Exchange Act”). As such, we are exempt from certain of the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act and corporate governance standards of the Nasdaq Stock Market (“Nasdaq”). Because of these exemptions, investors are not afforded the same protection or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States or traded on the Nasdaq. However, the Nasdaq does not exempt foreign private issuers from independent audit committee requirements and we are required to disclose any significant ways our current corporate governance practices differ from those followed by domestic companies under the Nasdaq listing standards. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer must notify the Nasdaq if one of our executive officers becomes aware of any material non-compliance with any applicable Nasdaq corporate governance listing standards to the Nasdaq. Please see “Item 16G—Corporate Governance” for more information. Reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. No treaty exists between Hong Kong and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. Accordingly, Hong Kong courts might not enforce judgments predicated on the federal securities laws of the United States, whether arising from actions brought in the United States or, if permitted, in Hong Kong. Delisting of our common shares. Our Common Stock is currently quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market. The Company must satisfy certain minimum listing maintenance requirements to maintain such quotation, including a series of financial tests relating to shareholders equity or net income or market value, public float, number of market makers and shareholders, market capitalization, and maintaining a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for the Common Stock. If our Common Stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, then our Common Stock may trade on the Over-the-Counter-Bulletin Board, which is viewed by most investors as a less desirable and less liquid market place. Delisting from The Nasdaq Capital Market could make trading our Common Stock more difficult and expensive for the Company to raise additional capital. Inherent limitation on Internal Control. Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives because of its inherent limitations. Internal control over financial reporting is a process that involves human diligence and compliance and is subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Internal control over financial reporting also can be circumvented by collusion or improper management decision. Because of such limitations, there is a risk that material misstatements may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by internal control over financial reporting. However, these inherent limitations are known features of the financial reporting process. Therefore, it may be possible to design into the process safeguards to reduce, though not eliminate, this risk. Inherent uncertainty in preparation of financial statements. The consolidated and condensed consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the SEC are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to changes in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents 