ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before purchasing our Common Stock. Our most significant risks and uncertainties are described below; however, they are not the only risks we face. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the trading of our Common Stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment therein. You should acquire shares of our Common Stock only if you can afford to lose your entire investment. 5 RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS The Current Credit and Financial Market Conditions May Exacerbate Certain Risks Affecting Our Business. Increased concerns about credit markets, consumer confidence, economic conditions, volatile corporate profits and reduced capital spending could negatively impact demand for our products. We may experience in the future, reduced demand for our products because of the uncertainty in the general economic environment in which our customers and we operate. The current tightening of credit in financial markets may adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing, which could result in a decrease in, or deferrals or cancellations of, the sale of our products. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States, remain uncertain or persist, spread, or deteriorate further, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Unstable economic, political and social conditions make it difficult for our customers, our suppliers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. If such conditions persist, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We cannot project the extent of the impact of the economic environment specific to our industry. Our Quarterly Revenues Will Likely Be Affected By Various Factors, Including The Timing Of Purchases By Customers and The Seasonal Nature Of Purchasing in Europe. Our quarterly revenues will likely be affected by various factors, including the seasonal nature of purchasing in Europe. Our revenues may vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, including new product introductions, expiration of distribution agreements, the release of grant and budget funding, future acquisitions and our substantial sales to European customers, who in summer months often defer purchases. In particular, delays or reduction in purchase orders from the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries could have a material adverse effect on us and could adversely affect our stock price. The Failure Of Any Banking Institution In Which We Deposit Our Funds Or The Failure Of Such Banking Institution To Provide Services In The Current Economic Environment Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Results Of Operations, Financial Condition Or Access To Borrowings. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. In recent months, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers, as well as pressured the solvency of some financial institutions. Some of these financial institutions, including banks, have had difficulty performing regular services and in some cases have failed or otherwise been largely taken over by governments. We deposit our cash and cash equivalents with a number of financial institutions around the world. Should some or all of these financial institutions fail or otherwise be unable to timely perform requested services, we would likely have a limited ability to quickly access our cash deposited with such institutions. If we are unable to quickly access such funds, we may need to increase our use of our existing credit lines or access more expensive credit, if available. If we are unable to access some or all of our cash on deposit, either temporarily or permanently, or if we access existing or additional credit or are unable to access additional credit, it could have a negative impact on our operations, including our reported net income, or our financial position, or both. We May Not Realize The Expected Benefits From Acquisitions Due To Difficulties Integrating The Businesses, Operations And Product Lines. Our ability to achieve the benefits of acquisitions depends in part on the integration and leveraging of technology, operations, sales and marketing channels and personnel. The integration process is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process and may disrupt our business if not completed in a timely and efficient manner. We may have difficulty successfully integrating the acquired businesses, the domestic and foreign operations or the product lines, and as a result, we may not realize any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. Additionally, we cannot assure that our growth rate will equal the growth rates that have been experienced by us and the acquired companies, respectively, operating as separate companies in the past. 6 Attractive Acquisition Opportunities May Not Be Available To Us In The Future. We will consider the acquisition of other businesses. However, we may not have the opportunity to make suitable acquisitions on favorable terms in the future, which could negatively impact the growth of our business. In order to pursue such opportunities, we may require significant additional financing, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. The availability of such financing is limited by the recent tightening of the global credit markets. We expect that our competitors, many of which have significantly greater resources than we do, will compete with us to acquire compatible businesses. This competition could increase prices for acquisitions that we would likely pursue. If Our Goodwill Or Intangible Assets Become Impaired, We May Be Required To Record A Significant Charge To Earnings. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets may not be recoverable include declines in our stock price and market capitalization or future cash flows projections. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets is determined. Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations May Have A Negative Impact On Our Reported Earnings. We conduct business in functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is our reporting currency. As a result, currency fluctuations among the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Currently, we attempt to manage foreign currency risk through the matching of assets and liabilities. In the future, we may undertake to manage foreign currency risk through additional hedging methods. We recognize foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operations in the period incurred. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in managing foreign currency risk or in predicting the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposure and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. We Have A Limited Operating History With Significant Losses And Expect Losses To Continue In The Near Future We have yet to establish any history of profitable operations. We have incurred annual operating losses of $6,267,169 and $3,025,998 during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 respectively. As a result, at December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit since exiting development stage at December 31, 2007 of $6,267,169 and an accumulated development stage deficit of $44,335,140. To date, our revenues have not been sufficient to sustain our operations. Our profitability will require the successful commercialization of one or more drugs for our territories in Eastern Europe as well as the out-licensing of our internal development programs in Alzheimer's, cancer, cardiovascular disease, and infectious diseases. The Company has in-licensed products to be marketed and distributed in our Eastern Europe territories. No assurances can be given when this will occur or when we will become profitable. We Will Need Additional Capital In The Future, But Our Access To Such Capital Is Uncertain. Failure To Access Such Capital May Cause Us To Cease Operations. Our current resources are insufficient to fund all of our planned development and commercialization efforts. As of December 31, 2008, we have a working capital deficiency of $5,588,759 and we had cash, and cash equivalents, of approximately $105,641. On March 28, 2007, Samaritan and Pharmaplaz, a private Irish Healthcare company and a shareholder of Samaritan, signed an agreement (the "Pharmaplaz Agreement") to commercialize SP-01A. Under the terms of the agreement, Pharmaplaz is required to pay Samaritan $10 million upfront. To date, under the Pharmaplaz Agreement, the amount of funds received from Pharmaplaz is $2.15 million; $1.4 million and $750,000 were received during the first and fourth quarter of 2007 respectively. On May 15, 2007, the CEO of Pharmaplaz, Michael Macken, signed a personal guarantee and on May 21, 2007 a stock pledge agreement for 943,291 (split-adjusted) shares of Samaritan Pharmaceuticals to guarantee the balance of the $7.85 million. On May 15, 2007, the amount of shares pledged was worth $1,300,742. On December 31, 2008, the last reported market sale price of our Common Stock was $0.07 and the value of the stock pledge was $66,030. As a result of Pharmaplaz's failure to timely pay the remaining balance of 7.85 million, Pharmaplaz is not in compliance with the terms of the Pharmaplaz Agreement. No payments were received in 2008. During the year 2008, the Company reserved a $3,451,742 note receivable to doubt about collection of the note. Samaritan recognizes Pharmaplaz’s intention is to pay the remaining balance and its failure is due to an economic slowdown in Ireland. Samaritan will continue to work with Pharmaplaz to collect the past due remaining balance. 7 At our current level of expenditures and profits from our sales in Eastern Europe, our cash resources are not adequate to meet our requirements into 2009. Our capital needs will depend on many factors, including our research and development activities, the scope and timing of our clinical trial programs, the timing of regulatory approval for our products under development and the successful commercialization of our products. Our needs may also depend on the magnitude and scope of these activities, the progress and the level of success in our clinical trials, the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights, competing technological and market developments, changes in or terminations of collaboration and existing licensing arrangements, the establishment of new collaboration and licensing arrangements and the cost of manufacturing scale-up and development of marketing activities, if undertaken by us. We do not have committed external sources of funding. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to: · delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs; · obtain funds through arrangements with collaboration partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to retain in order to develop or commercialize them ourselves; · license rights to technologies, product candidates or products on terms that are less favorable to us than might otherwise be available; or We intend to actively seek new financing from time to time to provide financial support for our activities. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional stock, further dilution to our stockholders may result, and new investors could have rights superior to existing stockholders. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our products, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Has Issued An Unqualified Opinion With An Explanatory Paragraph, To The Effect That There Is Substantial Doubt About Our Ability To Continue As A Going Concern. The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm has issued an unqualified opinion with an explanatory paragraph, to the effect that there is substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This unqualified opinion with an explanatory paragraph could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, the Company has generated minimal revenues and experienced an aggregate accumulated deficit of $50,602,309 through December 31, 2008, comprised of both development stage losses and the 2008 post-development loss. For the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company incurred net losses of $6,267,169 and $3,025,998, respectively and used cash flows from operations of $204,557 and $1,347,122, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had a working capital deficiency of $5,588,759. These matters raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. Management's plans in regard to these matters are described in Note 2. The accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of asset carrying amounts or the amount and classification of liabilities that might result should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. 8 We have no committed sources of capital and do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed on terms that are acceptable, if at all. Our current lack of resources is exacerbated by our inability to date to collect the remaining balance from Pharmaplaz. The addition of this going concern statement from our independent registered public accounting firm may discourage some investors from purchasing our Common Stock or providing alternative capital financing. The failure to satisfy our capital requirements will adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Unless we raise additional funds, either through the sale of equity securities or one or more collaborative arrangements, we will need to reduce our research and development and significantly reduce our workforce and our operating expenses. If we do not take these actions, we will not have sufficient funds to continue operations. Even if we take these actions, they may be insufficient, particularly if our costs are higher than projected or unforeseen expenses arise. Reducing our research and development or significantly reducing our workforce or operating expenses will adversely affect our business and prospects. If We Do Not Receive And Maintain Regulatory Approvals For Our Products Or Product Candidates, We Will Not Be Able To Commercialize Our Products, Which Would Substantially Impair Our Ability To Generate Revenues And Materially Harm Our Business And Financial Condition. Approval from the FDA is necessary to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products in the United States. The regulatory approval process is extensive, time-consuming and costly, and the FDA may not approve additional product candidates, or the timing of any such approval may not be appropriate for our product launch schedule and other business priorities, which are subject to change. Clinical testing of pharmaceutical products is also a long, expensive and uncertain process. Even if initial results of preclinical studies or clinical trial results are positive, we may obtain different results in later stages of drug development, including failure to show desired safety and efficacy. The clinical trials of any of our product candidates could be unsuccessful, which would prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval and commercializing the product. FDA approval of our products can be delayed, limited or not granted for many reasons, including, among others: · FDA officials may not find a product candidate safe or effective to merit an approval; · FDA officials may not find that the data from preclinical testing and clinical trials justifies approval, or they may require additional studies that would make it commercially unattractive to continue pursuit of approval; · the FDA might not approve the processes or facilities of our contract manufacturers or raw material suppliers or our manufacturing processes or facilities; · the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations; and · the FDA may approve a product candidate for indications that are narrow or under conditions that place our product at a competitive disadvantage, which may limit our sales and marketing activities or otherwise adversely impact the commercial potential of a product. If the FDA does not approve our product candidates in a timely fashion on commercially viable terms or we terminate development of any of our product candidates due to difficulties or delays encountered in clinical testing and the regulatory approval process, it will have a material adverse impact on our business. If Our Products Do Not Gain Market Acceptance, Our Business Will Suffer Because We Might Not Be Able To Fund Future Operations. A number of factors may affect the market acceptance of our products or any other products we develop or acquire, including, among others: · the price of our products relative to other therapies for the same or similar treatments; · the perception by patients, physicians and other members of the health; · care community of the safety and effectiveness of our products for their prescribed treatments; · the availability of satisfactory levels, or at all, of third party reimbursement for our products and related treatments; · our ability to fund our sales and marketing efforts; and · the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. 9 In addition, our ability to market and promote our products is restricted to the labels approved by the FDA. If the approved labels are restrictive, our sales and marketing efforts and market acceptance and the commercial potential of our products may be negatively affected. If our products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to fund future operations, including the development or acquisition of new product candidates and/or our sales and marketing efforts for our approved products, which would cause our business to suffer. The Company's License Agreements May Be Terminated In The Event Of A Breach; The Company Is In Breach Of The Collaboration Agreement The license agreements pursuant to which the Company has licensed its core technologies for its potential drug products permit the licensors to terminate such agreements under certain circumstances, such as the failure by the licensee to use its reasonable best efforts to commercialize the subject drug or the occurrence of any uncured material breach by the licensee. The license agreements also provide that the licensor is primarily responsible for obtaining patent protection for the licensed technology, and the licensee is required to reimburse the licensor for costs it incurs in performing these activities. The license agreements also require the payment of specified royalties. Any inability or failure to observe these terms or pay these costs or royalties may result in the termination of the applicable license agreement in certain cases. The termination of any license agreement could force us to curtail our business operations. As of April 11, 2008, Samaritan Pharmaceuticals and Samaritan Therapeutics' payment to McGill University is in arrears, which may permit our collaborator to terminate the research and development agreement. The termination of any license agreement could force us to curtail our business operations. Protecting Our Proprietary Rights is Difficult and Costly Which Could Have Material Adverse Effect On Our Business The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. The license agreements also provide that the licensor is primarily responsible for obtaining patent protection for the licensed technology, and the licensee is required to reimburse the licensor for costs it incurs in performing these activities. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims allowed in these companies' patents or whether the Company may infringe or be infringing on these claims. Patent disputes are common and could preclude the commercialization of our products. Patent litigation is costly in its own right and could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties. In addition, an adverse decision could force us to either obtain third-party licenses at a material cost or cease using the technology or product in dispute. The Company's Success Will Be Dependent Upon The Licenses And Proprietary Rights It Receives From Other Parties, And On Any Patents It May Obtain. Failure To Obtain Such Rights Could Have A Material Adverse Affect On Our Business. Our success will depend in large part on the ability of the Company and its licensors to (a) maintain license and patent protection with respect to their drug products, (b) defend patents and licenses once obtained, (c) maintain trade secrets, (d) operate without infringing upon the patents and proprietary rights of others and (e) obtain appropriate licenses to patents or proprietary rights held by third parties if infringement should otherwise occur, both in the United States and in foreign countries. We have obtained licenses to patents and other proprietary rights from Georgetown University and George Washington University. The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies, including those of the Company, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. There is no guarantee the Company or its licensors have or will develop or obtain the rights to products or processes that are patentable, that patents will issue from any of the pending applications or that claims allowed will be sufficient to protect the technology licensed to the Company. In addition, we cannot be certain that any patents issued to or licensed by the Company will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to the Company. 10 Litigation, which could result in substantial cost, may also be necessary to enforce any patents to which the Company has rights, or to determine the scope, validity and unenforceability of other parties' proprietary rights, which may affect the rights of the Company. U.S. patents carry a presumption of validity and generally can be invalidated only through clear and convincing evidence. There can be no assurance that our licensed patents would be held valid by a court or administrative body or an alleged infringer would be found to be infringing. The mere uncertainty resulting from the institution and continuation of any technology-related litigation or interference proceeding could have an adverse material effect on the Company pending resolution of the disputed matters. We may also rely on unpatented trade secrets and expertise to maintain a competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and others. There can be no assurance these agreements will not be breached or terminated, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. We Are Faced With Intense Competition And Industry Changes, Which May Make It More Difficult For Us To Achieve Significant Market Penetration, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business. The pharmaceutical and biotech industry generally is characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs, and frequent new product introductions. If our competitors' existing products or new products are more effective than or considered superior to our products, the commercial opportunity for our products will be reduced or eliminated. We face intense competition from companies in our marketplace as well as companies offering other treatment options. Many of our potential competitors are significantly larger than we are and have greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources than we do. We believe there will be intense price competition for products developed in our markets. Our competitors may develop or market technologies and products that are more effective or commercially attractive than any that we are developing or marketing. Our competitors may obtain regulatory approval, and introduce and commercialize products before we do. These developments could force us to curtail or cease our business operations. Even if we are able to compete successfully, we may not be able to do so in a profitable manner. If We Are Unable To Continue Product Development, Our Business Will Suffer, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Our success depends on our ability to develop our products. We currently do not have sufficient funds to continue the development of our products. In addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development and commercialization of these products. Our products in development may not prove safe and effective in clinical trials. Clinical trials may identify significant technical or other obstacles that must be overcome before obtaining necessary regulatory or reimbursement approvals. In addition, our competitors may succeed in developing commercially viable products that render our products obsolete or less attractive. Failure to successfully develop and commercialize new products and enhancements would likely have a significant negative effect on our financial prospects. There Is No Assurance That Our Products Will Have Market Acceptance, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business. The success of the Company will depend in substantial part on the extent to which a drug product, once approved, achieves market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including (a) the receipt and scope of regulatory approvals, (b) the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the safety and efficacy of a drug product, (c) the product's potential advantages over existing treatment methods and (d) reimbursement policies of government and third party payers. We cannot predict or guarantee physicians, patients, healthcare insurers, maintenance organizations, or the medical community in general, will accept or utilize any drug product of the Company. If our products do not develop market acceptance, we will be forced to curtail or cease our business operations. 11 There Is Uncertainty Relating To Third-Party Reimbursement, Which Is Critical To Market Acceptance Of Our Products And The Viability Of Our Business. International market acceptance of our products may depend, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within prevailing health care payment systems. Reimbursement and health care payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and include both government sponsored health care and private insurance. We may not obtain international reimbursement approvals in a timely manner, if at all. Our failure to receive international reimbursement approvals may negatively impact market acceptance of our products in the international markets in which those approvals are sought and could force us to curtail or cease our business operations. From time to time significant attention has been focused on reforming the health care system in the United States and other countries. Any changes in Medicare, Medicaid or third-party medical expense reimbursement, which may arise from health care reform, may have a material adverse effect on reimbursement for our products or procedures in which our products are used and may reduce the price we are able to charge for our products. In addition, changes to the health care system may also affect the commercial acceptance of products we are currently developing and products we may develop in the future. If We Are Unable To Protect Our Intellectual Property, We May Not Be Able To Operate Our Business Profitably, Which Could Have An Adverse Affect On Our Business. Our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to secure and protect intellectual property rights and to enforce patent and trademark protections relating to our technology which we license. From time to time, litigation may be advisable to protect our intellectual property position. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Any litigation in this regard could be costly, and it is possible that we will not have sufficient resources to fully pursue litigation or to protect our intellectual property rights. It could result in the rejection or invalidation of our existing and future patents. Any adverse outcome in litigation relating to the validity of our patents, or any failure to pursue litigation or otherwise to protect our patent position, could force us to curtail or cease our business operations. Also, even if we prevail in litigation, the litigation would be costly in terms of management distraction as well as in terms of money. In addition, confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, customers, and key vendors may not prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our intellectual property. It is possible that these agreements could be breached or that they might not be enforceable in every instance, and that we might not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Enforcement of these agreements may be costly and time consuming. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If We Are Unable To Operate Our Business Without Infringing Upon The Intellectual Property Rights Of Others, We May Not Be Able To Operate Our Business Profitably. Our success depends on our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. We endeavor to follow developments in our field, and we do believe that we have freedom to operate with respect to our core technologies. To the extent that planned or potential products would infringe patents or other intellectual property rights held by third parties, we would need licenses under such patents or other intellectual property rights to continue development and marketing of our products protected by those third party patents or other intellectual property rights. Any required licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, we may need to design around other parties’ patents or we may not be able to proceed with the development, manufacture or sale of our products. We Maintain No General Liability Insurance Policy Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, production, marketing, and sale of pharmaceuticals products. We maintain no commercial general liability policy and do not maintain insurance in the amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage. A claim would have to be paid out of cash reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and force us to curtail or cease our operations. In addition, any product liability claim likely would harm our reputation in the industry and our ability to develop and market products in the future. 12 Insurance Coverage Is Increasingly More Difficult To Obtain or Maintain Obtaining insurance for our business, property and products is increasingly more costly and narrower in scope, and requires the Company to assume more risk in the future. If we are subject to third party claims or suffer a loss or damage, we will be required to bear that risk. Furthermore, any first-or-third-party claims made against the Company may impact our ability to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at reasonable costs or at all in the future. Our Success Will Depend On Our Ability To Attract And Retain Key Personnel. The Failure To Retain Key Personnel Could Adversely Affect Our Business. In order to execute our business plan, we need to attract, retain and motivate a significant number of highly qualified managerial, technical, financial and sales personnel. If we fail to attract and retain skilled scientific and marketing personnel, our research and development and sales and marketing efforts will be hindered. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of key management personnel, including Dr. Janet Greeson, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board of Directors, and Dr. Vassilios Papadopoulos, Chief Scientist of the Science of Technology Advisory Committee and our key consultant. As of December 31, 2008, the Company has accrued compensation for Dr. Janet Greeson of $1,234,455. We do not maintain key man insurance on either of these individuals. The loss of their services could delay our product development programs and our research and development efforts at the Research Centre of McGill University. In addition, the loss of Dr. Greeson is grounds for our Research Collaboration with the Research Centre of McGill University Health Centre to terminate. In addition, competition for qualified employees among companies in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industry is intense and we cannot be assured that we would be able to recruit qualified personnel on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, to replace them. We Are Dependent On Third Parties For A Significant Portion Of Our Bulk Supply And The Formulation, Fill And Finish Of Our Product Candidates, The Loss Of Which May Adversely Affect Our Business. We currently produce a substantial portion of clinical product candidates' supply at our collaborative partner's Ireland manufacturing facility. However, we also depend on third parties for a significant portion of our product candidates' bulk supply as well as for some of the formulation, fill and finish of product candidates that we manufacture. Pharmaplaz is our third-party contract manufacturer of product candidates' bulk drug; accordingly, our clinical supply of product candidates is currently significantly dependent on Pharmaplaz's production schedule for product candidates. We would be unable to produce product candidates in sufficient quantities to substantially offset shortages in Pharmaplaz's scheduled production if Pharmaplaz or other third-party contract manufacturers used for the formulation, fill and finish of product candidates bulk drug were to cease or interrupt production or services or otherwise fail to supply materials, products or services to us for any reason, including due to labor shortages or disputes, regulatory requirements or action or contamination of product lots or product recalls. We cannot guarantee that an alternative third-party contract manufacturer would be available on a timely basis or at all. This in turn could materially reduce our ability to satisfy demand for product candidates, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our Corporate Compliance Program Cannot Guarantee That We Are In Compliance With All Potentially Applicable U.S. Federal And State Regulations And All Potentially Applicable Foreign Regulations. The development, manufacturing, distribution, pricing, sales, marketing and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation in the United States and to extensive regulation in foreign countries. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe to be current best practices, we cannot assure you that we or our employees are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and/or laws or all potentially applicable foreign regulations and/or laws. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations and/or laws a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, including withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs or other sanctions or litigation. 13 RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK Our Stock Is Currently Listed On The OTC Pink Sheets Which Limits The Trading Of Our Stock Our Common Stock currently trades on the OTC Pink Sheets which is generally considered to be a less efficient market than markets such as NASDAQ or other national exchanges. This may cause difficulty in obtaining future financing, which could have an adverse affect on our business. Broker-dealers who sell stock on the OTC market must provide purchasers of these stocks with a standardized risk-disclosure document prepared by the SEC. This document provides information about our Common Stock and the nature and level of risks involved in investing in the OTC market. A broker must also give a purchaser, orally or in writing, bid and offer quotations and information regarding broker and salesperson compensation, make a written determination that our Common Stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser, and obtain the purchaser's written agreement to the purchase. Broker-dealers must also provide customers that hold OTC stock in their accounts with such broker-dealer a monthly statement containing price and market information relating to the OTC stock. If an OTC stock is sold in violation of the OTC stock rules, purchasers may be able to cancel their purchase and get their money back. If applicable, the OTC stock rules may make it difficult for investors to sell their shares of our Common Stock. Because of the rules and restrictions applicable to an OTC market stock, there is less trading in OTC stocks and the market price of our Common Stock may be adversely affected. Also, many brokers choose not to participate in OTC stock transactions. Accordingly, purchasers may not always be able to resell shares of our Common Stock publicly at times and prices that they feel are appropriate. A Sale Of A Substantial Number Of Shares Of Our Common Stock May Cause The Price Of Our Common Stock To Decline, Which May Cause Difficulty In Obtaining Future Financing. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our Common Stock in the public market, the market price of our Common Stock could fall. These sales also may make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. Several of our shareholders hold restricted Common Stock that may be eligible for sale pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. Sales of our Common Stock by certain present stockholders under Rule 144 may, in the future, have a depressive effect on the market price of our securities. In addition, the sale of shares by officers and directors and other affiliated shareholders may also have a depressive effect on the market for our securities. Because We Do Not Intend To Pay Dividends, You May Benefit From An Investment In Our Common Stock Only If It Appreciates In Value. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our Common Stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The success of your investment in our Common Stock will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our Common Stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased your shares. The Market Price Of Our Common Stock Is Highly Volatile. The market price of our Common Stock has been and is expected to continue to be highly volatile. Various factors, including announcements of technological innovations by us or other companies, regulatory matters, new or existing products or procedures, concerns about our financial position, operating results, litigation, government regulation, developments or disputes relating to agreements, patents or proprietary rights may have a significant impact on the market price of our Common Stock. If our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our Common Stock may fall abruptly and significantly. Future sales of our Common Stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants or hedging or other derivative transactions with respect to our Common Stock, could have a significant negative effect on the market price of our Common Stock. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we would deem appropriate. 14 We may enter into registration rights agreements in connection with certain financings pursuant to which we agreed to register for resale by the investors the shares of Common Stock issued. Sales of these shares could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our shares of Common Stock. Under Provisions Of The Company's Articles Of Incorporation, Bylaws And Nevada Law, The Company's Management May Be Able To Block Or Impede A Change In Control The issuance of blank check preferred stock, where the Board of Directors can designate rights or preferences, may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or may discourage a third party from acquiring, a majority of our voting stock. These and other provisions in our Articles of Incorporation (restated as last amended November 1, 2007) and in our Bylaws (restated as last amended March 20, 2008), as well as certain provisions of Nevada law, could delay or impede the removal of incumbent directors and could make it more difficult to effect a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving a change of control of the Company, even if such events could be beneficial to the interest of the shareholders as a whole. Such provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for our Common Stock. Officers and Directors Liabilities Are Limited Under Nevada Law Pursuant to the Company's Articles of Incorporation (restated as last amended November 1, 2007) and Bylaws (restated as last amended March 20, 2008), and as authorized under applicable Nevada law, Directors are not liable for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty, except in connection with a breach of the duty of loyalty for (a) acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (b) for dividend payments or stock repurchases illegal under applicable Nevada law or (c) any transaction in which a Director has derived an improper personal benefit. The Company's Articles of Incorporation (restated as last amended November 1, 2007) and Bylaws (restated as last amended March 20, 2008) provide that the Company must indemnify its officers and Directors to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Nevada law for all expenses incurred in the settlement of any actions against such persons in connection with their having served as officers or Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 