ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS AND CAUTIONARY FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS. The statements in this section describe major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our disclosure and analysis in this 2008 Form 10-K contains some forward-looking statements that are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions. We also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. They do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We have attempted, wherever possible, to identify forward-looking statements by using words such as “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “believe,” “plan,” “anticipate” and other words and terms of similar meaning. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, new products, future performance or results of current or anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign-exchange rates, economic effects, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. Many of the factors that will determine our future results are beyond our ability to control or predict. Achievement of future results is subject to known or unknown risks or uncertainties, and therefore, actual results could differ materially from past results and those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. We also refer you to further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and 8-K reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 9 Table of Contents Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. As widely reported, financial markets in the U.S., Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Our operating results in one or more geographic regions may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the U.S., Europe or Asia remain uncertain or weaken further, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to credit risk on accounts receivable and certain prepayments made in the normal course of business. This risk is heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. A substantial majority of our outstanding trade receivables are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. In addition, we have made prepayments associated with insurance premiums and other advances in the normal course of business. While we have procedures to periodically monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on trade receivables and other current assets, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk and avoid losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values and the risk of loss of our investment portfolio. Our available cash and cash equivalents are held in bank deposits, money market funds and other short-term investments. We have funds in our operating accounts that are with third-party financial institutions. These balances in the U.S. may exceed the FDIC (Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation) insurance limits. While we monitor the cash balances in our operating accounts, and adjust the balances as appropriate, we could lose this cash or be unable to withdraw it in a timely manner if the underlying financial institutions fail. Although we have not recognized any material losses on our cash, cash equivalents and other cash investments, future declines in their market values or other unexpected losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our sales and profitability depend to a large extent on the sale of drug products delivered by injection. If the products developed by our customers in the future use another delivery system, our sales and profitability could suffer. Our business depends to a substantial extent on customers' continued sales and development of products that are delivered by injection. If our customers fail to continue to sell, develop and deploy new injectable products or we are unable to develop new products that assist in the delivery of drugs by alternative methods, our sales and profitability may suffer. If we are unable to provide comparative value advantages, timely fulfillment of customer orders, or resist pricing pressure, we will have to reduce our prices, which may negatively impact our profit margins. We compete with several companies across our major product lines. Because of the special nature of these products, competition is based primarily on product design and performance, although total cost is becoming increasingly important as pharmaceutical companies continue with aggressive cost control programs across their entire operations. Competitors often compete on the basis of price. We differentiate ourselves from our competition as a "full-service value-added" supplier that is able to provide pre-sale compatibility studies and other services and sophisticated post-sale technical support on a global basis. However, we face continued pricing pressure from our customers and competitors. If we are unable to resist or to offset the effects of continued pricing pressure through our value-added services, improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, or if we have to reduce our prices, our sales and profitability may suffer. 10 Table of Contents If we are unable to expand our production capacity at our European and Asian facilities, there may be a delay in fulfilling or we may be unable to fulfill customer orders and this could potentially reduce our sales and our profitability may suffer. We have significant indebtedness and debt service payments which could negatively impact our liquidity. We owe substantial debts and have to commit significant cash flow to debt service requirements. The level of our indebtedness, among other things, could: · make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business; and · make our financial results and share value more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and to reduce our total indebtedness depends on the results of our product development efforts, our future operating performance, our ability to generate cash flow from the sale of our products and on general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors affecting our operations. Many of these factors are beyond our control and our future operating performance could be adversely affected by some or all of these factors. If we incur new indebtedness in the future, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Whether we are able to make required payments on our outstanding indebtedness and satisfy any other future debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance and our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing. We are subject to regulation by governments around the world, and if these regulations are not complied with, existing and future operations may be curtailed, and we could be subject to liability. The design, development, manufacturing, marketing and labeling of certain of our products and our customers’ products that incorporate our products are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in the United States, Europe and other countries, including the FDA and the European Medicines Agency. The regulatory process can result in required modification or withdrawal of existing products and a substantial delay in the introduction of new products. Also, it is possible that regulatory approval may not be obtained for a new product. In addition, our analytical laboratories perform certain contract services for drug manufacturers and are subject to the FDA's current good manufacturing practices regulations. We must also register as a contract laboratory with the FDA and are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA. The Drug Enforcement Administration has licensed our contract analytical laboratories to handle and store controlled substances. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in actions that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in the regulation of drug products and devices. An effect of the governmental regulation of our customers’ drug products, devices, and manufacturing processes is that compliance with regulations makes it costly and time consuming for customers to substitute or replace components and devices produced by one supplier with those from another. In general terms, regulation of our customers’ products that incorporate our components and devices has increased over time. However, if the applicable regulations were to be modified in a way that reduced the cost and time involved for customers to substitute one supplier’s components or devices for those made by another, it is likely that the competitive pressure on us would increase and adversely affect our sales and profitability. 11 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by risks typically encountered in international operations. We conduct business in most of the major pharmaceutical markets in the world. Sales outside the U.S. account for approximately 54% of consolidated net sales. Virtually all of these sales and related operating costs are denominated in the currency of the local country and translated into U.S. dollars, which can result in significant increases or decreases in the amount of those sales or earnings. The main currencies, to which we are exposed, besides the U.S. dollar, are the Euro, British Pound and Japanese Yen. The exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. In addition to translation risks, we incur currency transaction gains or losses when we or one of our subsidiaries enters into a purchase or sales transaction in a currency other than that entity’s local currency. International operations are also exposed to the following risks: transportation delays and interruptions; political and economic instability and disruptions; imposition of duties and tariffs; import and export controls; the risks of divergent business expectations or cultural incompatibility inherent in establishing and maintaining operations in foreign countries; difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations; labor strikes and/or disputes; and potentially adverse tax consequences. Limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies with third parties or our joint venture partners outside of the U.S. could also create exposure. In addition, we may not be able to operate in compliance with foreign laws and regulations, or comply with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject, in the event that these laws or regulations change. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our international operations in the future by reducing the demand for our products, decreasing the prices at which we can sell our products or otherwise have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Raw material and energy prices have a significant impact on our profitability. If raw material and/or energy prices increase, and we cannot pass those price increases on to our customers, our profitability and financial condition may suffer. We use three basic raw materials in the manufacture of our products: elastomers (which include synthetic and natural material), aluminum and plastic. In addition, our manufacturing facilities consume a wide variety of energy products to fuel, heat and cool our operations. Supply and demand factors, which are beyond our control, generally affect the price of our raw materials and utility costs. If we are unable to pass along increased raw material prices and energy costs to our customers, our profitability, and thus our financial condition, may be adversely affected. The prices of many of these raw materials and utilities are cyclical and volatile. For example, the prices of certain commodities, particularly petroleum-based raw materials, have in the recent past exhibited rapid changes, increasing the cost of synthetic elastomers and plastic. While we generally attempt to pass along increased costs to our customers in the form of sales price increases, historically there has been a time delay between raw material and/or energy price increases and our ability to increase the prices of our products. In some circumstances, we may not be able to increase the prices of our products due to competitive pressure and other factors. Disruptions in the supply of key raw materials and difficulties in the supplier qualification process, could adversely impact our operations. We employ a supply chain management strategy in our reporting segments, which involves purchasing from integrated suppliers that control their own sources of supply. This strategy has reduced the number of raw material suppliers used by us. This increases the risk that our supply lines may be interrupted in the event of a supplier production problem or financial difficulties. If one of our suppliers is unable to supply materials needed for our products or our strategies for managing these risks is unsuccessful, we may be unable to complete the process of qualifying new replacement materials for some programs in time to meet future production needs. Prolonged disruptions in the supply of any of our key raw materials, difficulty completing qualification of new sources of supply, or in implementing the use of replacement materials or new sources of supply could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or cash flows. 12 Table of Contents Our operations must comply with environmental statutes and regulations, and any failure to comply could result in extensive costs which would harm our business. The manufacture of some of our products involves the use, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous or toxic materials and is subject to various environmental protection and occupational health and safety laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. This has exposed us in the past, and could expose us in the future, to risks of accidental contamination and events of non-compliance with environmental laws. Any such occurrences could result in regulatory enforcement or personal injury and property damage claims or could lead to a shutdown of some of our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We currently incur costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations and these costs may become more significant. A loss of key personnel or highly skilled employees could disrupt our operations. Our executive officers are critical to the management and direction of our businesses. Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain these officers and other capable management personnel. With the exception of our chief executive officer, in general, we do not enter into employment agreements with our executive officers. We have entered into severance agreements with our officers that allow those officers to terminate their employment under particular circumstances, such as a change of control affecting our company. Although we believe that we will be able to attract and retain talented personnel and replace key personnel should the need arise, our inability to do so could disrupt the operations of the unit affected or our overall operations. In addition, because of the complex nature of many of our products and programs, we are generally dependent on an educated and highly skilled engineering staff and workforce. Our operations could be disrupted by a shortage of available skilled employees. Difficulties experienced in the design or implementation of our new enterprise resource planning system may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are in the process of implementing SAP, an enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system, over a multi-year period for our North American operations. Phase one of this implementation was completed in April 2008 and included the replacement of our financial reporting, cash disbursement and order-to-cash systems. A second major phase of the SAP project, focusing on procurement and plant operations, commenced in October 2008 and will continue through 2009. Our ERP system is critical to our ability to accurately and efficiently maintain our books and records, record transactions, provide critical information to our management and prepare our financial statements. We have invested, and will continue to invest, significant capital and human resources in the design and implementation of this system. Any disruptions or delays encountered during the implementation could adversely affect our ability to process and ship orders, provide services and customer support, bill and track customers, fulfill contractual obligations and file quarterly or annual reports with the SEC in a timely manner. The resulting disruptions to our business could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Even if we do not encounter these difficulties, the design and implementation of the new ERP system may be more costly than we had originally anticipated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. As of the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K, there were no unresolved comments from the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 13 Table of Contents 