ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking in nature. These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “will,” “should,” or “anticipates,” or the negative thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy. Our business and operations are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties and, consequently, actual results may differ materially from those projected by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from those projected include, but are not limited to, those listed below and elsewhere in this report. There may be additional risks of which we are not presently aware or that we currently believe are immaterial which could have an adverse impact on our business. We make no commitment to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances that may change. Risks Related to Our Business We may be unable to compete effectively with larger and better capitalized companies and governmental service providers. Our industry is highly competitive and requires substantial labor and capital resources. Some of the markets in which we compete or will likely compete are served by one or more large, national companies, as well as by regional and local companies of varying sizes and resources, some of which we believe have accumulated substantial goodwill in their markets. Some of our competitors may also be better capitalized than we are, have greater name recognition than we do, or be able to provide or be willing to bid their services at a lower price than we may be willing to offer. Our inability to compete effectively could hinder our growth or negatively impact our operating results. We also compete with counties, municipalities and solid waste districts that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations. These operators may have financial advantages over us because of their access to user fees and similar charges, tax revenues and tax-exempt financing. Increases in the price of fuel may adversely affect our business and reduce our operating margins. The market price of fuel is volatile and has risen substantially in recent years. We purchase diesel fuel at market prices, and such prices can fluctuate significantly. A significant increase in our fuel cost could adversely affect our business and reduce our operating margins and reported earnings. Increases in labor and disposal and related transportation costs could impact our financial results. Our continued success will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. We compete with other businesses in our markets for qualified employees. From time to time, the labor supply is tight in some of our markets. A shortage of qualified employees would require us to enhance our wage and benefits packages to compete more effectively for employees, to hire more expensive temporary employees or to contract for services with more expensive third-party vendors. Labor is one of our highest costs and relatively small increases in labor costs per employee could materially affect our cost structure. If we fail to attract and retain qualified employees, control our labor costs or recover any increased labor costs through increased prices we charge for our services or otherwise offset such increases with cost savings in other areas, our operating margins could suffer. Disposal and related transportation costs are our second highest cost category. If we incur increased disposal and related transportation costs to dispose of solid waste, and if, in either case, we are unable to pass these costs on to our customers, our operating results would suffer. Increases in insurance costs and the amount that we self-insure for various risks could reduce our operating margins and reported earnings. We maintain insurance policies for automobile, general, employer’s, environmental and directors and officers’ liability as well as for employee group health insurance, property insurance and workers’ compensation. We are effectively self-insured for automobile liability, property, general liability, workers’ compensation, employer’s liability and employee group health insurance by carrying high dollar per incident deductibles. We carry umbrella policies for certain types of claims to provide excess coverage over the underlying policies and per incident deductibles. The increased amounts that we self-insure could cause significant volatility in our operating margins and reported earnings based on the occurrence and claim costs of incidents, accidents and injuries. Our insurance accruals are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not reported and are developed by our management with assistance from our third-party actuary and our third-party claims administrator. To the extent these estimates are inaccurate, we may recognize substantial additional expenses in future periods that would reduce operating margins and reported earnings. From time to time, actions filed against us include claims for punitive damages, which are generally excluded from coverage under all of our liability insurance policies. A punitive damage award could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings in the period in which it occurs. Significant increases in premiums on insurance that we retain also could reduce our margins. 15 We depend significantly on the services of the members of our senior, regional and district management team, and the departure of any of those persons could cause our operating results to suffer. Our success depends significantly on the continued individual and collective contributions of our senior, regional and district management team. Key members of our management have entered into employment agreements, but we may not be able to enforce these agreements. The loss of the services of any member of our senior, regional or district management or the inability to hire and retain experienced management personnel could harm our operating results. Our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. In preparing our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, several estimates and assumptions are made that affect the accounting for and recognition of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. These estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. In some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. The estimates and the assumptions having the greatest amount of uncertainty, subjectivity and complexity are related to our accounting for landfills, self-insurance, intangibles, allocation of acquisition purchase price, income taxes, asset impairments and litigation, claims and assessments. Actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Efforts by labor unions could divert management attention and adversely affect operating results. From time to time, labor unions attempt to organize our employees. Some groups of our employees are represented by unions, and we have negotiated collective bargaining agreements with most of these groups. We are currently engaged in negotiations with other groups of employees represented by unions. Additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future. Negotiating collective bargaining agreements with these groups could divert management attention and adversely affect operating results. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, we might have to wait through “cooling off” periods, which are often followed by union-initiated work stoppages, including strikes or lock-outs. Additionally, any significant work stoppage or slowdown at ports or by railroad workers could reduce or interrupt the flow of cargo containers through our intermodal facilities. Depending on the type and duration of any labor disruptions, our operating expenses could increase significantly, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our results are vulnerable to economic conditions and seasonal factors affecting the regions in which we operate. Our business and financial results would be harmed by downturns in the general economy of the regions in which we operate and other factors affecting those regions, such as state regulations affecting the solid waste services industry and severe weather conditions. Based on historic trends, we expect our operating results to vary seasonally, with revenues typically lowest in the first quarter, higher in the second and third quarters, and lower in the fourth quarter than in the second and third quarters. We expect the fluctuation in our revenues between our highest and lowest quarters to be in the range of approximately 9% to 12%. This seasonality reflects the lower volume of solid waste generated during the late fall, winter and early spring because of decreased construction and demolition activities during the winter months. In addition, some of our operating costs may be higher in the winter months. Adverse winter weather conditions slow waste collection activities, resulting in higher labor and operational costs. Greater precipitation in the winter increases the weight of collected waste, resulting in higher disposal costs, which are calculated on a per ton basis. Because of these factors, we expect operating income to be generally lower in the winter months, and our stock price may be negatively affected by these variations. We may lose contracts through competitive bidding, early termination or governmental action. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from market areas where we have exclusive arrangements, including franchise agreements, municipal contracts and G Certificates. Many of these arrangements are for a specified term and will be subject to competitive bidding in the future. For example, we have approximately 338 contracts, representing approximately 7.6% of our annual revenues that are set for expiration or automatic renewal through December 31, 2008. Although we intend to bid on additional municipal contracts and franchise agreements, we may not be the successful bidder. In addition, some of our customers may terminate their contracts with us before the end of the contract term. 16 Government action may also affect our exclusive arrangements. Municipalities may annex unincorporated areas within counties where we provide collection services. As a result, our customers in annexed areas may be required to obtain services from competitors that have been franchised by the annexing municipalities to provide those services. In addition, municipalities in which services are currently provided on a competitive basis may elect to franchise collection services. Unless we are awarded franchises by these municipalities, we will lose customers. Municipalities may also decide to provide services to their residents themselves, on an optional or mandatory basis, causing us to lose customers. Municipalities in Washington may, by law, annex any unincorporated territory, which could remove such territory from an area covered by a G Certificate issued to us by the WUTC. Such occurrences could subject more of our Washington operations to competitive bidding. Moreover, legislative action could amend or repeal the laws governing WUTC regulation, which could harm our competitive position by subjecting more areas to competitive bidding. If we are not able to replace revenues from contracts lost through competitive bidding or early termination or from the renegotiation of existing contracts with other revenues within a reasonable time period, our revenues could decline. We may be subject in the normal course of business to judicial and administrative proceedings that could interrupt our operations, require expensive remediation, result in adverse judgments or settlements and create negative publicity. Governmental agencies may impose fines or penalties on us relating to the conduct of our business, attempt to revoke or deny renewal of our operating permits, franchises or licenses for violations or alleged violations of environmental laws or regulations, or require us to remediate potential environmental problems relating to waste that we or our predecessors collected, transported, disposed of or stored. Individuals or citizens groups may also bring actions against us in connection with our operations. Any adverse outcome in such proceedings could harm our operations and financial results and create negative publicity, which could damage our reputation, competitive position and stock price. Competition for acquisition candidates, consolidation within the waste industry and economic and market conditions may limit our ability to grow through acquisitions. Most of our growth since our inception has been through acquisitions. Although we have identified numerous acquisition candidates that we believe are suitable, we may not be able to acquire them at prices or on terms and conditions favorable to us. Other companies have adopted or may in the future adopt our strategy of acquiring and consolidating regional and local businesses. We expect that increased consolidation in the solid waste services industry will continue to reduce the number of attractive acquisition candidates. Moreover, general economic conditions and the environment for attractive investments may affect the desire of the owners of acquisition candidates to sell their companies. As a result, fewer acquisition opportunities may become available to us, which could cause us to reduce our rate of growth from acquisitions or make acquisitions on less attractive terms than we have in the past, such as at higher purchase prices. Our growth and future financial performance depend significantly on our ability to integrate acquired businesses into our organization and operations. A component of our growth strategy involves achieving economies of scale and operating efficiencies by growing through acquisitions. We may not achieve these goals unless we effectively combine the operations of acquired businesses with our existing operations. In addition, we are not always able to control the timing of our acquisitions. Our inability to complete acquisitions within the time frames that we expect may cause our operating results to be less favorable than expected, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our acquisitions may not be successful, resulting in changes in strategy, operating losses or a loss on sale of the business acquired. Even if we are able to make acquisitions on advantageous terms and are able to integrate them successfully into our operations and organization, some acquisitions may not fulfill our objectives in a given market due to factors that we cannot control, such as market position or customer base. As a result, operating margins could be less than we originally anticipated when we made those acquisitions. In addition, we may change our strategy with respect to that market or those businesses and decide to sell the operations at a loss, or keep those operations and recognize an impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets. Because we depend on railroads for our intermodal operations, our operating results and financial condition are likely to be adversely affected by any reduction or deterioration in rail service. We depend on two major railroads for the intermodal services we provide – the Burlington Northern Santa Fe and Union Pacific. Consequently, a reduction in, or elimination of, rail service to a particular market is likely to adversely affect our ability to provide intermodal transportation services to some of our customers. In addition, the railroads are relatively free to adjust shipping rates up or down as market conditions permit when existing contracts expire. Rate increases would result in higher intermodal transportation costs, reducing the attractiveness of intermodal transportation compared to solely truck or other transportation modes, which could cause a decrease in demand for our services. Our business could also be adversely affected by harsh weather conditions or other factors that hinder the railroads’ ability to provide reliable transportation services. 17 Our decentralized decision-making structure could allow local managers to make decisions that adversely affect our operating results. We manage our operations on a decentralized basis. Local managers have the authority to make many decisions concerning their operations without obtaining prior approval from executive officers, subject to compliance with general company-wide policies. Poor decisions by local managers could result in the loss of customers or increases in costs, in either case adversely affecting operating results. We may incur additional charges related to capitalized expenditures, which would decrease our earnings. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we capitalize some expenditures and advances relating to acquisitions, pending acquisitions and landfill development projects. We expense indirect acquisition costs such as executive salaries, general corporate overhead and other corporate services as we incur those costs. We charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures and advances (net of any amount that we estimate we will recover, through sale or otherwise) that relate to any operation that is permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, any pending acquisition that is not consummated and any landfill development project that we do not expect to complete. Any such charges against earnings could decrease our stock price. Each business that we acquire or have acquired may have liabilities that we fail or are unable to discover, including environmental liabilities. As a successor owner, we may be legally responsible for liabilities that arise from businesses that we acquire. Even if we obtain legally enforceable representations, warranties and indemnities from the sellers of such businesses, they may not cover the liabilities fully. Some environmental liabilities, even if we do not expressly assume them, may be imposed on us under various regulatory schemes and other applicable laws. Our insurance program does not cover liabilities associated with some environmental issues that may exist prior to attachment of coverage. A successful uninsured claim against us could harm our financial condition. Liabilities for environmental damage may adversely affect our business and earnings. We are liable for any environmental damage that our solid waste facilities cause, including damage to neighboring landowners or residents, particularly as a result of the contamination of soil, groundwater or surface water, and especially drinking water. We may be liable for damage resulting from conditions existing before we acquired these facilities. We may also be liable for any on-site environmental contamination caused by pollutants or hazardous substances whose transportation, treatment or disposal we or our predecessors arranged. If we were to incur liability for environmental damage, environmental cleanups, corrective action or damage not covered by insurance or in excess of the amount of our coverage, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The adoption of new accounting standards or interpretations could adversely affect our financial results. Our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules and interpretations could adversely affect our operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results in future periods. The accounting rules and regulations that we must comply with are complex and continually changing. Recent actions and public comments from the SEC have focused on the integrity of financial reporting generally. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, has recently introduced several new or proposed accounting standards, or is developing new proposed standards, which would represent a significant change from current industry practices. In addition, many companies’ accounting policies are being subject to heightened scrutiny by regulators and the public. While we believe that our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we cannot predict the impact of future changes to accounting principles or our accounting policies on our financial statements going forward. 18 Risks Related to Our Industry Our financial and operating performance may be affected by the inability to renew landfill operating permits, obtain new landfills and expand existing ones. We currently own and/or operate a number of landfills. Our ability to meet our financial and operating objectives may depend in part on our ability to renew landfill operating permits, acquire, lease and expand existing landfills and develop new landfill sites. It has become increasingly difficult and expensive to obtain required permits and approvals to build, operate and expand solid waste management facilities, including landfills and transfer stations. Operating permits for landfills in states where we operate must generally be renewed every five to ten years. These operating permits often must be renewed several times during the permitted life of a landfill. The permit and approval process is often time consuming, requires numerous hearings and compliance with zoning, environmental and other requirements, is frequently challenged by citizens, public interest and other groups, and may result in burdensome terms and conditions being imposed on our operations. We may not be able to obtain new landfill sites or expand the permitted capacity of our landfills when necessary. Obtaining new landfill sites is important to our expansion into new, non-exclusive markets. If we do not believe that we can obtain a landfill site in a non-exclusive market, we may choose not to enter that market. Expanding existing landfill sites is important in those markets where the remaining lives of our landfills are relatively short. We may choose to forego acquisitions and internal growth in these markets because increased volumes would further shorten the lives of these landfills. Any of these circumstances could adversely affect our operating results. Future changes in laws regulating the flow of solid waste in interstate commerce could adversely affect our operating results. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that states may not regulate the flow of solid waste in interstate commerce if the effect would be to discriminate between interstate and intrastate commerce with respect to private facilities. In 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld a flow control scheme directing waste to be processed at a municipally owned transfer station. If one or more of the municipalities or states in which we dispose of interstate waste takes action that would prohibit or increase the costs of our continued disposal of interstate waste, our operating results could be adversely affected. Extensive and evolving environmental laws and regulations may restrict our operations and growth and increase our costs. Existing environmental laws and regulations have become more stringently enforced in recent years because of greater public interest in protecting the environment. In addition, our industry is subject to regular enactment of new or amended federal, state and local statutes, regulations and ballot initiatives, as well as judicial decisions interpreting these requirements. These requirements impose substantial costs on us and may adversely affect our business. In addition, federal, state and local governments may change the rights they grant to, and the restrictions they impose on, solid waste services companies, and those changes could restrict our operations and growth. Extensive regulations that govern the design, operation and closure of landfills may restrict our landfill operations or increase our costs of operating landfills. Regulations that govern landfill operations include the regulations that establish minimum federal requirements adopted by the EPA in October 1991 under Subtitle D of RCRA. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be required to undertake investigatory or remedial activities, curtail operations or close landfills temporarily or permanently. Future changes to these regulations may require us to modify, supplement or replace equipment or facilities at substantial costs. If regulatory agencies fail to enforce these regulations vigorously or consistently, our competitors whose facilities are not forced to comply with the Subtitle D regulations or their state counterparts may obtain an advantage over us. Our financial obligations arising from any failure to comply with these regulations could harm our business and operating results. Unusually adverse weather conditions may interfere with our operations, harming our operating results. Our operations could be adversely affected, beyond the normal seasonal variations described above, by unusually long periods of inclement weather, which could interfere with collection, landfill and intermodal operations, reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers, delay the development of landfill capacity, and increase the costs we incur in connection with the construction of landfills and other facilities. Periods of particularly harsh weather may force us to temporarily suspend some of our operations. Fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities that we sell and rebates we offer to customers may cause our revenues and operating results to decline. We provide recycling services to some of our customers. The sale prices of and demands for recyclable commodities, particularly paper products, are frequently volatile and when they decline, our revenues and operating results may decline. Our recycling operations offer rebates to suppliers, based on the market prices of commodities we buy to process for resale. Therefore, if we recognize increased revenues resulting from higher prices for recyclable commodities, the rebates we pay to suppliers will also increase, which also may impact our operating results. 19 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 