ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are factors that could have a significant impact on the operations and financial results of IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company and could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in any forward-looking statements: 10 • Reduced hydroelectric generation can reduce revenues and increase costs. Idaho Power Company has a predominately hydroelectric generating base. Because of Idaho Power Company’s heavy reliance on hydroelectric generation, water can significantly affect its operations. When hydroelectric generation is reduced, Idaho Power Company must increase its use of generally more expensive thermal generating resources and purchased power and opportunities for off-system sales are reduced, which reduces revenues. In addition, while Idaho Power Company can expect to recover a portion of the increase in its net power supply costs above the level included in its base rates, recovery of the amounts does not occur until the subsequent power cost adjustment year. • Continuing declines in stream flows and over-appropriation of water in Idaho may reduce hydroelectric generation and revenues and increase costs. The combination of declining Snake River base flows, over-appropriation of water and drought conditions have led to disputes among surface water and ground water irrigators, and the state of Idaho. Recharging the Eastern Snake Plain Aquifer, which contributes to Snake River flows, by diverting surface water to porous locations and permitting it to sink into the aquifer is one proposed solution to the dispute. Diversions from the Snake River for aquifer recharge may further reduce Snake River flows available for hydroelectric generation and reduce Idaho Power Company’s revenues and increase costs. Idaho Power Company is also involved in legal actions involving the water rights it holds for hydroelectric purposes. One such action, initiated in the Snake River Basin Adjudication, involves Idaho Power Company’s water rights at the Swan Falls project on the Snake River and several other upstream hydroelectric projects that are the subject of a 1984 agreement with the state of Idaho known as the Swan Falls Agreement. Idaho Power Company also has initiated legal action against the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation over the interpretation and effect of a 1923 contract with the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation on the operation of the American Falls Reservoir and the release of water from that reservoir to be used at Idaho Power Company’s downstream hydroelectric projects. The resolution of these matters may affect Snake River flows available for hydroelectric generation and thereby reduce Idaho Power Company revenues and increase costs. • Load growth in Idaho Power Company’s service territory exposes it to greater market and operational risk and could increase costs and reduce earnings and cash flows. o Increases in both the number of customers and the demand for energy have resulted and may continue to result in increased reliance on purchased power to meet customer load requirements. Since the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission implemented market-based wholesale power rates in 1997, the price volatility of electricity has substantially increased from what it was at the inception of the power cost adjustment. While Idaho Power Company can expect to recover a portion of the increase in its net power supply costs above the level included in its base rates, the remaining amount is absorbed by Idaho Power Company. As Idaho Power Company’s reliance on purchased power continues to increase, the risks associated with the remaining amount not recovered through the power cost adjustment could increase costs and reduce earnings and cash flows. o Idaho Power Company’s load growth adjustment rate adjusts the net power supply costs Idaho Power Company includes in its annual power cost adjustment for differences between actual load and the load used in calculating base rates. If the Idaho Public Utilities Commission increases the rate or modifies the method used to calculate the load growth adjustment rate Idaho Power Company’s earnings and cash flows could be reduced. o Increased load growth can result in the need for additional investments in Idaho Power Company’s infrastructure to serve the new load. If Idaho Power Company were unable to secure timely rate relief from the Idaho Public Utilities Commission, the Oregon Public Utility Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to recover the costs of these additional investments, the resulting regulatory lag would have a negative effect on earnings and cash flow. o Increased and unexpected load growth can create planning and operating difficulties for Idaho Power Company that can impact its ability to reliably serve customers. • Idaho Power Company’s reliance on coal and natural gas to fuel its power generation facilities exposes it to risk of increased costs and reduced earnings. In addition to hydroelectric generation, Idaho Power Company relies on coal and natural gas to fuel its generation facilities. Market price increases in coal and natural gas can result in reduced earnings. Increases in demand for natural gas, including increases in demand due to greater industry reliance on natural gas for power generation, may result in market price increases and/or supply availability issues. In addition, delivery of coal and natural gas depends upon gas pipelines, rail lines, rail cars and roadways. Any disruption in Idaho Power Company’s fuel supply may require the company to find alternative fuel sources at higher costs, to produce power from higher cost generation facilities or to purchase power from other sources at higher costs. • Changes in temperature and precipitation can reduce power sales and revenues. Warmer than normal winters, cooler than normal summers and increased rainfall during the irrigation seasons will reduce retail revenues from power sales. 11 • Climate change could affect customer demand and hydroelectric generation and disrupt transmission and distribution systems, reducing earnings and cash flows. Changes in temperature, precipitation and snow pack conditions will affect customer demand and the amount and timing of hydroelectric generation. Extreme weather events can disrupt transmission and distribution systems, and cause service interruptions and extended outages. Decreased customer demand and hydroelectric generation and increased operations and maintenance costs from disrupted transmission and distribution systems will reduce earnings and cash flows. • The cost of complying with environmental laws and regulations will increase capital expenditures and operating costs and may reduce Idaho Power Company’s earnings and cash flows and ability to meet the electricity needs of its customers. IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, natural resources and health and safety. Compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations involves significant capital and operating expenditures. These expenditures could become even more significant in the future if legislation, regulations and enforcement policies change. For instance, considerable attention has been focused on emissions from coal-fired generating plants, including carbon dioxide, and their potential role in contributing to global warming. Proposals by Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency could lead to the adoption of a mandatory federal program to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Such a program would raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, specifically coal, as an economical energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities because technologies for reducing carbon dioxide emissions from coal, including carbon capture and storage, are not yet proven. The effects of mercury and other pollutant emissions from coal-fired plants are also subject to extensive regulation. The adoption of new statutes, rules and regulations to implement carbon dioxide, mercury or other emission controls will result in increased capital expenditures and could increase the cost of operating coal-fired generating plants or make them uneconomical to operate and result in reduced earnings and cash flows • The costs of complying with state or federal renewable energy portfolio standards could increase capital expenditures and operating costs and reduce earnings and cash flows. Idaho Power Company’s operations in Oregon will be required to comply with a ten percent renewable energy portfolio standard beginning in 2025. The new federal administration has called on Congress to adopt a federal renewable energy portfolio standard and it is possible that Idaho and other states in which Idaho Power Company operates or sells power could adopt renewable energy portfolio standards in the future. New state or federal renewable energy portfolio standards could increase capital expenditures and operating costs and reduce earnings and cash flows. • If the Idaho Public Utilities Commission, the Oregon Public Utility Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission grant less rate recovery in rate case filings than Idaho Power Company needs to cover increased costs of providing services, earnings and cash flows may be reduced and economic expansion may be limited. If the Idaho Public Utilities Commission, the Oregon Public Utility Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission grant less rate recovery in rate case filings than Idaho Power Company needs to cover increased costs of providing services, it may have a negative effect on earnings and cash flows and could result in downgrades of IDACORP, Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s credit ratings. Failure to obtain regular and timely rate relief may limit Idaho Power Company’s ability to serve additional customers. • Conditions that may be imposed in connection with hydroelectric license renewals may require large capital expenditures, increase operating costs, reduce hydroelectric production and reduce earnings and cash flows. Idaho Power Company is currently involved in renewing federal licenses for several of its hydroelectric projects. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission may impose conditions with respect to environmental, operating and other matters in connection with the renewal of Idaho Power Company’s licenses. These conditions could have a negative effect on Idaho Power Company’s operations, require large capital expenditures and increase operating costs, reduce hydroelectric production and reduce earnings and cash flows. 12 • IDACORP, Inc., IDACORP Energy and Idaho Power Company are subject to costs and other effects of legal and regulatory proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims. IDACORP, Inc., IDACORP Energy and Idaho Power Company are involved in a number of proceedings, including the California refund proceeding, a portion of which remains pending before the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit; a refund proceeding affecting sellers of wholesale power in the spot market in the Pacific Northwest; and show cause proceedings originating at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, a portion of which remains pending in the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. It is possible that additional proceedings related to the western energy situation may be filed in the future against IDACORP, Inc., IDACORP Energy or Idaho Power Company. IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company are or may also be subject to costs and other effects of additional legal claims, actions and complaints, including those related to the Jim Bridger and Boardman coal-fired plants, in which Idaho Power Company holds an ownership interest. To the extent the companies are required to make payments in connection with any legal or regulatory proceeding, settlement, investigation or claim, earnings and cash flows will be negatively affected. • Idaho Power Company’s business is subject to substantial governmental regulation and may be adversely affected by increased costs resulting from, or liability under, existing or future regulations or requirements. Idaho Power Company is subject to extensive federal and state laws, policies, and regulations, as well as regulatory actions and regulatory audits, including those of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, the Western Electricity Coordinating Council and the public utility commissions in Idaho, Oregon and Wyoming. Some of these regulations are changing or subject to interpretation, and failure to comply may result in penalties or other adverse consequences. Compliance with these requirements directly influences Idaho Power Company’s operating environment and may significantly increase Idaho Power Company’s operating costs. • Increased capital expenditures can significantly affect liquidity. Increases in both the number of customers and the demand for energy require expansion and reinforcement of transmission and distribution systems and generating facilities. If Idaho Power Company does not receive timely regulatory recovery, Idaho Power Company will have to rely more on external financing for its future utility construction expenditures. These large planned expenditures may weaken the consolidated financial profile of IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company. Additionally, a significant portion of Idaho Power Company’s facilities were constructed many years ago. Aging equipment, even if maintained in accordance with industry practices, may require significant capital expenditures. Failure of equipment or facilities used in Idaho Power Company’s system could potentially increase repair and maintenance expenses, purchased power expenses and capital expenditures. • As a holding company, IDACORP, Inc. does not have its own operating income and must rely on the upstream cash flows from its subsidiaries to pay dividends and make debt payments. IDACORP, Inc. is a holding company and thus its primary assets are shares or other ownership interests of its subsidiaries, primarily Idaho Power Company. Consequently, IDACORP, Inc.’s ability to pay dividends and to service its debt is dependent upon dividends and other payments received from its subsidiaries. IDACORP, Inc.’s subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to IDACORP, Inc., whether through dividends, loans or other payments. The ability of IDACORP, Inc.’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to IDACORP, Inc. depends on several factors, including their actual and projected earnings and cash flow, capital requirements and general financial condition, and the prior rights of holders of their existing and future first mortgage bonds and other debt securities. • A downgrade in IDACORP, Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s credit ratings could negatively affect the companies’ ability to access capital, increase their cost of borrowing, and require the companies to post collateral with transaction counterparties. Credit rating agencies periodically review the corporate credit ratings and long-term ratings of IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company. IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company also have borrowing arrangements that rely on the ability of the banks to fund loans or support commercial paper. Downgrades of IDACORP, Inc.’s or Idaho Power Company’s credit ratings, or those affecting bond insurers or relationship banks, could limit the companies’ ability to access capital, including the commercial paper markets, require IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company to pay a higher interest rate on their debt and require the companies to post collateral with transaction counterparties. • Volatility and decreased lending capacity in the financial markets may negatively affect IDACORP, Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s ability to access capital and/or increase their cost of borrowing. IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company require liquidity to pay operating expenses and principal of and interest on debt and to finance capital expenditures. Financial markets have recently experienced extreme volatility and disruption, causing the cost of borrowing to rise and the availability of liquidity and credit for borrowers to decrease; actions taken by the United States Government, the Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies may not be sufficient to stabilize these markets. As a result, IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company may experience higher interest costs and/or be unable to access capital, including the commercial paper markets. These conditions may adversely affect IDACORP, Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 13 • IDACORP and Idaho Power Company may incur losses on their investments or be unable to sell their investments when they desire to do so, which could adversely affect their liquidity and financial condition. IDACORP and Idaho Power Company invest cash in short-term interest bearing accounts, including money market funds. Volatility in the financial markets has resulted in a lack of liquidity and declines in value of some money market funds. The companies may realize additional losses on some or all of their invested funds or be unable to sell their investments when they desire to do so. This could adversely affect IDACORP’s and Idaho Power Company’s liquidity and financial condition. • National and regional economic conditions may cause increased late payments and uncollectible accounts, which would reduce earnings and cash flows. Recent concerns over inflation, energy costs, the availability and cost of credit, declining business and increased unemployment have contributed to a recession. These factors have resulted, and may continue to result, in an increase in late payments and uncollectible accounts and reduce IDACORP Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s earnings and cash flows. • Terrorist threats and activities could result in reduced revenues and increased costs. IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities. Potential targets include generation and transmission facilities. The effects of terrorist threats and activities could prevent Idaho Power Company from purchasing, generating or transmitting power and result in reduced revenues and increased costs. • Adverse results of income tax audits could reduce earnings and cash flows. The outcome of ongoing and future income tax audits could differ materially from the amounts currently recorded, and the difference could reduce IDACORP’s and Idaho Power Company’s earnings and cash flows. • Employee workforce factors could increase costs and reduce earnings. Idaho Power Company is subject to workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key personnel, availability of qualified personnel, and an aging workforce. The costs of attracting and retaining appropriately qualified employees to replace an aging workforce could reduce earnings and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 