Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations and their financial results elsewhere in this report, we invite your attention to the considerations and risk factors described below. The risk factors could cause Wesco’s actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking and other statements contained in this report and in the other periodic reports and other filings Wesco makes with the SEC, as well as in news releases, annual reports and other communications that Wesco makes from time to time. It should be noted that there are other risks facing Wesco, and that additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair Wesco’s business operations. An investment in Wesco is not an investment in Berkshire Hathaway. From time to time there is an erroneous report by an analyst or reporter that an investor wishing to purchase Berkshire common stock can instead purchase shares of Wesco. Berkshire is the parent of Wesco. Wesco’s operations differ significantly from those of Berkshire, and its shares may trade at a significantly different price relative to its intrinsic value than do those of Berkshire. In addition to the risk factors affecting Wesco’s operations, Berkshire has risk factors of its own. Investors wishing to have investment exposure to Berkshire cannot accomplish this by purchasing Wesco shares. They should carefully read Berkshire’s published financial statements and filings with the SEC. Wesco’s investments are unusually concentrated and fair values are subject to loss in value. Compared to other companies, Wesco keeps an unusually high percentage of its assets (principally related to its insurance businesses) in common stocks and diversifies its portfolio far less than is conventional. A significant decline in the general stock market or in the price of major investments may produce a large decrease 15 in Wesco’s shareholders’ equity and under certain circumstances may require the recognition of such losses in the statement of income. Decreases in values of equity investments could have a material adverse effect on Wesco’s book value per share. During 2008, several crises affecting the financial system and capital markets of the U.S. resulted in very large price declines in the general stock market and in the fair values of Wesco’s equity securities investments. Although the aggregate fair value of Wesco’s equity securities investments increased during 2009, the fair values of several of its equity securities investments continued to decline. There is no guarantee that their fair values will recover or whether significant decreases will occur in the future. Wesco is dependent for its investment and all other capital allocation decisions on a few key people. Investment decisions and all other capital allocation decisions are made for Wesco’s businesses by Charles T. Munger, Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and CEO of Wesco, and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of Berkshire Hathaway, age 86, in consultation with Warren E. Buffett, Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO of Berkshire Hathaway, age 79. If for any reason the services of those key personnel, particularly Mr. Buffett, were to become unavailable to Wesco, there could be a material adverse effect on Wesco. However, Berkshire’s Board of Directors has agreed on a replacement for Mr. Buffett should a replacement be needed currently. Its Board continually monitors this matter and could alter its current view in the future. Wesco’s Wes-FIC subsidiary is dependent upon the Berkshire Insurance Group for its management and personnel, and for opportunities to participate with the Berkshire Insurance Group in reinsurance contracts representing essentially the entirety of its reinsurance business, as well as a significant portion of its insurance business to date. Since the incorporation of Wes-FIC in 1985, Wesco’s insurance and reinsurance business, other than that conducted by its Kansas Bankers Surety subsidiary, has been limited principally to participation with members of the Berkshire Insurance Group in contracts for the reinsurance of risks of unaffiliated property and casualty insurance companies. Wes-FIC’s operations are managed by NICO, a member of the Berkshire Insurance Group; it has no employees of its own. In the event the Berkshire Insurance Group were to cease operating Wes-FIC’s business or to significantly curtail Wes-FIC’s participation with it in reinsurance contracts, Wes-FIC would be required to look elsewhere for personnel who would conduct and manage its operations, and/or seek to continue its insurance business in a different manner, possibly by acquisition. Wesco’s tolerance for risk in its insurance businesses may result in a high degree of volatility in periodic reported earnings. Wes-FIC participates with members of the Berkshire Insurance Group in certain reinsurance contracts in which significant risk is periodically assumed. The Berkshire Insurance Group has indicated that it believes that it has been and continues to be willing to assume more risk than any other insurer has knowingly assumed. As described in Item 1, Business, effective January 1, 2008, Wes-FIC entered into a quota-share retrocession agreement with NICO, a member of the Berkshire Insurance Group, to assume 10% of NICO’s quota share reinsurance of Swiss Re. Under this retrocession agreement, Wes-FIC has assumed 2% part of NICO’s 20% quota share reinsurance of all Swiss Re property-casualty risks incepting over the five-year period which began January 1, 2008, on the same terms as NICO’s agreement with Swiss Re (the “Swiss Re contract”). This arrangement significantly increased Wes-FIC’s premium volume as well as exposure to large losses, such as hurricanes, and foreign exchange risk, and thus, the potential for increased volatility and losses. In addition, as with all reinsurance arrangements, Wes-FIC does not control the underwriting of the primary insurer and relies on the primary insurer’s reputation and judgment in deciding what underlying risks to insure. Aside from risks assumed under the Swiss Re contract, Wes-FIC’s reinsurance activities currently in force do not subject it to super-catastrophe risks. However, it has procedures in place for the immediate acceptance of participations in catastrophic excess of loss reinsurance, which could subject it to large amounts of losses from mega-catastrophes such as hurricanes or earthquakes, if offered to it by the Berkshire Insurance Group, so long as the Berkshire Insurance Group participates in such reinsurance activities to a greater degree. The tolerance for 16 significant risks may in certain future periods result in significant losses. This policy may result in a high degree of volatility in Wesco’s periodic reported earnings. The degree of estimation error inherent in the process of estimating property and casualty insurance loss reserves may result in a high degree of volatility in periodic reported earnings. In the insurance business, premiums are charged today for promises to pay covered losses in the future. The principal cost associated with premium revenue is claims. However, it will literally take decades before all losses that have occurred as of the balance sheet date will be reported and settled. Although Wesco believes that loss reserve balances are adequate to cover losses, Wesco will not truly know whether the premiums charged for the coverages provided were sufficient until well after the balance sheet date. Wesco’s objective is to generate underwriting profits over the long term. Estimating insurance claim costs is inherently imprecise. Wesco’s reserve estimates are large ($343.5 million at December 31, 2009), so adjustments to reserve estimates can have a material effect on periodic reported earnings. Each of Wesco’s operating businesses faces intense competitive pressures. Each of Wesco’s operating businesses faces intense competitive pressures within its respective markets. Such competition may come from domestic and international operators. While Wesco’s businesses are managed with the objective of achieving sustainable growth over the long term through developing and strengthening competitive advantages, many factors, including market changes and technology, could erode or impede those competitive advantages or prevent their strengthening. Accordingly, future operating results will depend to some degree on whether the operating units are successful in protecting or enhancing their competitive advantages. Unfavorable economic conditions could hurt Wesco’s operating businesses. Wesco’s operating businesses are subject to normal economic cycles affecting the economy in general and the industries in which they operate. To the extent that the current weak economic environment continues for a prolonged period of time, one or more of Wesco’s significant operations could be materially harmed. In addition to the foregoing risk factors inherent in Wesco’s operations, Wesco’s shareholders face a market liquidity risk because the daily trading volume of Wesco’s shares on NYSE Amex is relatively low. In addition to the risks facing Wesco in its business operations, investors wishing to purchase or sell shares of its capital stock face market price risks because the daily NYSE Amex trading volume of Wesco’s shares is relatively low. An order for the purchase or sale of a large number of Wesco shares could significantly affect the price at which the order is executed. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 