RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this annual report in evaluating us and our business. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of future operations could be significantly harmed. In that case, the trading price of our shares and American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”) could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. This annual report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this annual report. You should also refer to the other information in this annual report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Our Quarterly Results May Fluctuate Significantly and Be Unpredictable – This Could Adversely Affect the Market Price of Our Shares We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations. Our quarterly results may fluctuate because of a variety of factors. Such factors include: ·the timing of entering into agreements with licensees; ·the financial terms and delivery schedules of our agreements with licensees; ·the demand for products that incorporate our technology or expected future demand for such products; ·the mixture of license fees, royalties, revenues from the sale of development systems and fees from services; ·the introduction of new technology by us, our licensees or our competition or other actions taken by our competitors; ·the timing of orders from and shipments to systems companies of ARM-based microprocessors from our semiconductor partners; ·any strategic investments or acquisitions that we might undertake; ·sudden technological or other changes in the microprocessor industry; and ·new litigation or developments in current litigation. In future periods, our operating results may not meet the expectations of public market analysts or investors. In such an event the market price of our shares could be materially adversely affected. A more detailed description of how we earn revenues from license fees and royalties is set forth in the sections entitled “Item 18. Financial Statements—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 1b. Summary of significant accounting policies—Revenue recognition” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” We Are Dependent on Our Intellectual Property (“IP”) Licensees We rely on our licensees to manufacture and market microprocessors and other IP based on our architecture in order to receive royalties in the future. We also depend on them to add value to our licensed architecture by providing complete ARM-based microprocessor solutions to meet the specific application needs of systems companies. However, the semiconductor partners are not contractually obliged to manufacture, distribute or sell microprocessors based on our technology or to market our microprocessor architecture on an exclusive basis. Some of our existing semiconductor partners design, develop and/or manufacture and market microprocessors based on competing architectures, including their own, and others may do so in the future. If one or more of our licensees stops licensing our microprocessors or other IP, reduces its orders, fails to pay license or royalty fees due or does not produce products containing our microprocessors or other IP, our operating results could be materially and negatively affected. We cannot assure you that our semiconductor licensees will dedicate the resources necessary to promote and further develop products based on our architecture, that they will manufacture products based on our microprocessors in quantities sufficient to meet demand, that we will be successful in maintaining our relationships with our licensees or that we will be able to develop relationships with new licensees. Although we 4 Table of Contents believe that our strategy of selecting multiple licensees will expand the market for our architecture and lead to more rapid acceptance of our architecture by assuring multiple reliable sources of microprocessors at competitive prices, such a strategy may also result in distribution channel conflicts. This could create disincentives to market our architecture aggressively and make it more difficult to retain our existing licensees and to attract new partners and licensees. Accurate prediction of the timing of inception of new licenses is difficult because the development of a business relationship with a potential licensee may frequently span a year or more. The fiscal period in which a new license agreement will be entered into, if at all, is difficult to predict, as are the financial terms of any such agreement. Engineering services are dependent upon the varying level of assistance desired by licensees and, therefore, the timing of revenue from these services is also difficult to predict. With increasing complexity in each successive generation of integrated circuit products, we face the risk that the rate of adoption of smaller process geometries for integrated circuit manufacturing may slow or cease. We also face the risk that licensing revenue may suffer if current or former customers collaborate with each other regarding design standards for particular generations of integrated circuit products. The royalties we receive on ARM-based microprocessors are based on the volumes and prices of microprocessors manufactured and sold by our semiconductor partners and the royalties we receive on physical IP libraries are based on volumes and prices of wafers, manufactured and sold by our physical IP licensees. Our royalties are therefore influenced by many of the risks faced by the semiconductor market in general. These risks include reductions in demand for systems-on-chip (“SoC”) based on our microprocessors and physical IP libraries and reduced average selling prices. The semiconductor market is intensely competitive. It is also generally characterized by declining average selling prices over the life of a generation of microprocessors and physical IP libraries. The effect of these price decreases is compounded by the fact that royalty rates decrease as a function of volume. We cannot assure you that delays in licensing, poor demand for services, decreases in prices or in our royalty rates will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We Depend Largely on a Small Number of Customers and Products – This May Adversely Affect Our Revenues Our revenues in a particular quarter depend largely on a small number of licensees and products. If we fail to achieve the performance required under a single license contract or if a single customer fails to make its milestone payments, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, any failure to develop successor products which offer significant competitive advantages to these customers in a timely manner or any decrease in demand for ARM technology could materially adversely affect us. Changes in technology trends and/or economic conditions may cause companies within the semiconductor industry to consolidate further or for industry concentration to intensify, thereby reducing the number of customers that ARM may sell its technology to and potentially making ARM even more dependent on those customers that remain. Our Success Depends Substantially on Systems Companies Our success depends substantially on the acceptance of our technology by systems companies, particularly those which develop and market high-volume electronic products in the wireless, consumer electronics and networking markets where demand may be highly cyclical. The reason for this dependence is that sales of ARM-based microprocessors by our semiconductor partners to systems companies directly affect the amount of royalties we receive. We are subject to many risks beyond our control that may influence the success or failure of a particular systems company. These risks include: ·competition faced by the systems company in its particular industry; ·the engineering and marketing capabilities of the systems company; ·market acceptance of the systems company’s products; ·technical challenges unrelated to our technology faced by the systems company in developing its products; and ·the financial and other resources of the systems company. 5 Table of Contents It can take a long time to persuade systems companies to accept our technology and, even if accepted, we cannot assure you that our technology will be used in a product that is ultimately brought to market. Furthermore, even if our technology is used in a product brought to market, we cannot assure you that such product will be commercially accepted or result in significant royalties to us. Demand for our IP may also be affected by consolidation in the integrated circuit and related industries, which may reduce the aggregate level of purchases of our IP components and services by the combined companies. The revenue we generate from licensing activities depends in large part on the rate at which systems companies adopt new product generations, which, in turn, is affected by the level of demand for their integrated circuits and other products. Rapid Technological Changes in Our Industry Are Difficult to Predict – Our Business May Be Adversely Affected if We Cannot Develop New Products on a Timely Basis The market for our architecture is characterized by rapidly changing technology and end user needs. Our business, reputation and relationships with our partners could be adversely affected if we cannot develop technological improvements or adapt our products to technological changes on a timely basis. Whether we will be able to compete in the future will substantially depend on our ability to advance our technology to meet these changing market and user needs and to anticipate successfully or respond to technological changes in hardware, software and architecture standards on a cost-effective and timely basis. We will have to make significant expenditures to develop our products. The long lead time from the initial design of our technology until it is incorporated into new end user applications can place significant strain on our research and development resources. Certain of our products have suffered delays in the past. We cannot assure you that the design of future products will be completed as scheduled, that we will be successful in developing and licensing new products, that we will not experience difficulties that delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of new products or that any new products that we may introduce will achieve market acceptance. Our Microprocessor Architecture, Physical IP Libraries and Development Systems Tools May Not Continue to Be Accepted by the Market There are competing microprocessor architectures in the market. We cannot assure you that the market will continue to accept our architecture. Market acceptance of our architecture by semiconductor and systems companies for use in a variety of embedded applications is critical for our success. While our microprocessor architecture has already been licensed by many semiconductor and systems companies for use in a variety of high-volume applications in the wireless, consumer electronics and networking markets, other microprocessor architectures have a large installed base of embedded applications and are supported by a broad base of related software and development tools. A more detailed description of these competing architectures is set forth in the section entitled “