Item 1A. Risk Factors We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the Xspedius acquisition. We acquired Xspedius with the expectation that the acquisition would result in benefits to the combined companies. Achieving the benefits of the acquisition depends in part on the successful integration of Xspedius’ and our operations in a timely and efficient manner. We have achieved substantial progress integrating the Xspedius acquired operations with ours. The remaining integration work will consist primarily of network optimization and grooming to reduce the costs of network services, network enhancements and equipment to enable the deployment of our advanced services in certain additional acquired markets, and process refinement to optimize the integrated systems and organization. There are still risks that remaining integration work may not be completed in an efficient manner, or that we will not generate additional revenue and Modified EBITDA from, and improve the margins in, the acquired business. We may be unable to sustain our revenue and cash flow growth despite the implementation of several initiatives designed to do so. We must expand our business and revenue in order to generate sufficient cash flow that, together with funds available under our credit facility, will be sufficient to fund our capital expenditures and our debt service requirements. We have pursued several growth initiatives, including: • increasing network investments in existing markets to expand our network reach; • launching new products and services, especially products and services that support customers’ data and IP initiatives; and • increasing our network reach through the acquisition of Xspedius in 2006. Our ability to manage this expansion depends on many factors, including our ability to: • attract new customers and sell new services to existing customers; • acquire and install transmission facilities and related equipment at reasonable costs; • employ new technologies; • obtain required permits and rights-of-way; • enhance our financial, operating, and information systems to effectively manage our growth; • accurately predict and manage the cost and timing of our capital expenditure programs; and • integrate the acquired operations. There is no assurance that our growth initiatives will continue to result in an improvement in our financial position or our results of operations. We have historically incurred net losses even during periods of increasing revenue, and while we are now closer to becoming net income positive, certain factors could cause continued losses including, among others, economic conditions, industry consolidations, decreased demand, customers disconnecting services, regulatory and contractual rate reductions, revenue disputes, and issuance of proposed accounting standards (see Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Proposed New Accounting Pronouncement”). Several customers account for a significant portion of our revenue, and some of our customers’ purchases may not continue due to customer consolidations, financial difficulties or other factors. We have substantial business relationships with a few large customers, especially other carriers. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 26% of our total revenue. The highly competitive environment in the long haul carrier sector, including interexchange carriers, has challenged the financial condition and growth prospects of some of our carrier customers and could lead to further reductions in our revenue in the future. 18 Some of our service agreements with customers are subject to termination on short notice and do not require the customer to maintain the services at current levels. Customers may not continue to purchase the same services or level of services. Increasing consolidation in the telecommunications industry has occurred in recent years, and if any of our customers are acquired we may lose a significant portion of their business. SBC’s merger with AT&T Corp. (now AT&T Inc.) and subsequent acquisition of BellSouth Corp. has and may continue to result in the surviving company buying less local transport service from us in SBC’s and BellSouth Corp.’s service areas in the long run. In addition, revenue from Cingular which was party to consolidations in 2004 and 2006 and represented 5% of total revenue in 2004 has declined to less than 2% of total revenue in 2007, and is expected to further decline in 2008. We continue to experience customer and service disconnects in the normal course of business primarily associated with industry consolidation, customer network optimization, price competition from other providers, cost cutting, business contractions, bankruptcies or other financial difficulties, including most recently, disconnections of service by a few customers in the mortgage industry adversely affected by the subprime mortgage downturn. Monthly revenue loss from disconnects averaged 1.2%, 1.2%, and 1.0% of monthly revenue in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. While we expect that some customers will continue to disconnect services due to the reasons mentioned above, we cannot predict the total impact on revenue from these disconnects or the timing of such disconnects. Replacing this revenue with new revenue from other carrier customers or with enterprise customer revenue may be difficult. Among other factors, individual enterprise customers tend to place smaller service orders than some of our larger carrier customers. In addition, pricing pressure on some of our more mature products may challenge our ability to grow our revenue. Our substantial existing debt and debt service requirements could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations under our debt. We have been carrying substantial amounts of debt, and our level of debt may affect our operations and our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness. Subject to certain covenants in our credit agreement and the indentures for our outstanding senior notes, we may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2007, our total long term debt and capital lease obligations were approximately $1.4 billion. Our substantial indebtedness could, for example: • limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other corporate purposes; • make us more vulnerable to economic downturns or other adverse developments than less leveraged competitors; and • decrease our ability to withstand competitive pressures. The acquisition of Xspedius increased our indebtedness and decreased our liquidity. The consideration for the Xspedius acquisition consisted, in part, of approximately $211.5 million in cash after giving effect to a final working capital adjustment of $4.5 million. In order to finance a portion of the cash consideration and to refinance our higher cost debt, we entered into a new $600 million secured term loan B in October 2006. After giving effect to the term loan B and use of proceeds to repay other outstanding indebtedness, our total debt increased by $161.5 million. In addition, we replaced our $110.0 million secured revolving credit facility with a $100 million secured revolving credit facility. The increased indebtedness and interest expense and decreased cash position has decreased our liquidity. Decreased liquidity could adversely affect our ability to fund capital expenditures for the expansion of our network in the future. 19 Our revolving credit facility and term loan B and the indenture relating to our senior notes contain restrictive covenants that may limit our flexibility, and breach of those covenants may cause us to be in default under those agreements. The credit agreement for our revolving credit facility, term loan B, and the indenture relating to our senior notes limit, and in some circumstances prohibit, our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends; • make capital expenditures, investments or other restricted payments; • engage in sale-leaseback transactions; • engage in transactions with stockholders and affiliates; • guarantee debts; • create liens; • sell assets; • issue or sell capital stock of subsidiaries; and • engage in mergers and acquisitions. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. In addition, if we do not comply with these covenants and financial covenants in our credit agreement that require us to maintain certain minimum financial ratios, the indebtedness outstanding under our credit agreement, and by reason of cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions, our senior notes and any other outstanding indebtedness we may then have, could become immediately due and payable. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the credit agreement could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation proceeding or proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the lenders under our credit agreement were to accelerate the repayment of outstanding borrowings, we might not have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness. In addition, the lenders under our revolving credit facility could refuse to lend funds if we are not in compliance with our financial covenants, such as leverage and interest coverage ratios that are primarily derived from EBITDA (see note 7 to Item 6. “Selected Financial Data”) and debt levels. A lack of revenue growth or an inability to control costs could negatively impact our EBITDA margins and cause our failure to meet the minimum required ratios. We could fail to comply with the covenants in the future due to many factors, including losses of revenue due to customer disconnects or other factors or reduction in margins due to pricing pressures or rising costs or the inability to successfully integrate our acquired operations. We will require substantial capital to expand our operations. The development and expansion of our networks requires substantial capital investment. If this capital is not available when needed, our business will be adversely affected. Our 2007 capital expenditures were $259.5 million, and our estimate of our 2008 capital expenditures is $250 million to $274 million, including expenditures for integration and branding. We also expect to have substantial capital expenditures thereafter. Our wholly-owned subsidiary has an unused senior secured revolving credit facility that, subject to certain conditions, allows us to borrow up to $100 million. We may be required to seek financing in addition to that facility if: • our business plans and cost estimates are inaccurate; 20 • we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, fund our capital expenditures and finance our business operations; • we decide to significantly accelerate the expansion of our business and existing networks; or • we consummate acquisitions or joint ventures or other strategic transactions that require incremental capital. If we were to seek additional financing, the terms offered may place significant limits on our financial and operating flexibility, or may not be acceptable to us. The failure to raise sufficient funds if needed and on reasonable terms may require us to modify or significantly curtail our business plan. This could have a material adverse impact on our growth, ability to compete, and ability to service our debt. We may complete a significant business combination or other transaction that could increase our shares outstanding, and may result in a change in control, and which may also affect our leverage. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other arrangements that would extend our geographic markets, expand our services, enlarge the capacity of our networks or increase the types of services provided through our networks. If we enter into a definitive agreement with respect to any acquisition, joint venture or other arrangement, we may require additional financing that could result in an increase in our leverage, result in a change of control, increase the number of outstanding shares, or all of these effects. A substantial transaction may require the consent of our lenders. There can be no assurance that we will enter into any transaction or, if we do, on what terms. In addition, the success of any significant acquisition or business combination is dependent, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate the acquired business into ours, which also carries substantial risks. We have experienced reductions in switched access and reciprocal compensation revenue as a result of regulatory rate reform, and we may experience further such reductions in the future. Over the past several years FCC and state regulations have reduced our switched access revenue as well as our reciprocal compensation revenue. The FCC has been considering proposals for an integrated intercarrier compensation regime under which all traffic exchanged between carriers would be subject to a unified rate. Such changes could materially reduce our switched access revenue from other carriers, but may create an opportunity for us to recover some, but not all, of that lost revenue directly from end users. We cannot predict the outcome of pending FCC rule makings related to inter-carrier compensation. Switched access and reciprocal compensation together have been declining over time and represented 5%, 5% and 4% of our 2005, 2006 and 2007 revenue, respectively. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compensate for the reduction in intercarrier compensation revenue with other revenue sources or increased volume. We may be adversely affected by changes in the regulation of special access services. We provide special access services in competition with ILECs, and we also purchase special access services from ILECs to extend the reach of our network. A significant change in the regulations governing special access services could result in either significant reductions in the special access prices charged by our ILEC competitors or in the elimination of regulations that increase the likelihood that ILECs will sell us special access on reasonable terms and conditions. In January 2005, the FCC released a notice of proposed rulemaking in which it considers the adoption of new special access pricing regulations that could eventually result in reductions in ILEC special access prices or constraints on the degree of pricing flexibility ILECs will continue to have. We have advocated before the FCC that it should modify its special access pricing flexibility rules so that these services return to price-cap regulation to protect against unreasonable price increases. The FCC is not expected to rule on special access regulation until after the change in administration that will result from the November 2008 election. We cannot at this time predict the outcome of this proceeding. In an order approving the Verizon/MCI mergers, the FCC conditioned its 21 approval upon the combined company not increasing its rates for special access services for a period of 30 months ending July 2008, which has provided us with a period of price stability. The FCC’s Order that approved the merger of BellSouth Corporation into AT&T included a number of conditions that provide us with rate stability and modest cost savings for special access and UNEs for 42 to 48 months ending mid to late 2010, and provide a framework for a more manageable process for renegotiating our special access and interconnection contracts when they expire over the next few years. We cannot predict whether and the extent to which the special access pricing of these carriers will increase after the expiration of these merger conditions. If the prices that we must pay for special access services from these carriers increase materially, our margins could be adversely affected. The ILECs have argued before the FCC that their broadband services, including special access services, should no longer be subject to regulation governing price and quality of service. In August 2005, the FCC adopted an order in the Wireline Broadband Internet Access proceeding that classified wireline broadband Internet access services, including the underlying transmission facilities, as unregulated services. Since the FCC specifically excluded from this classification special access and Ethernet transmission services we use for off-net building access, these services currently remain subject to regulation as telecommunications services. However, Verizon has filed a petition with the FCC seeking reconsideration of the FCC’s decision to continue to regulate these services. In addition, the ILECs have filed numerous petitions for forbearance from regulation of their broadband special access services, including Ethernet services offered as special access. In March 2006, the FCC allowed a Verizon forbearance petition seeking deregulation of its broadband services to be granted by operation of law and in October 2007 granted key portions of an AT&T petition to remove regulation of broadband services sold to business customers. Similar rulings were granted to several smaller ILECs. As a result, the Ethernet and OC-n high capacity data services of these carriers are no longer regulated. We and several of our competitors have appealed the default grant of the Verizon petition and the grant of the AT&T petition. While we do not currently use these services, their de-regulation may foreclose opportunities to reach additional customers in a manner that may otherwise be unavailable to us on a reasonable basis. These FCC actions did not impact the availability of the tariffed TDM special access circuits that we use for off-net building access. We expect that the ILECs will continue to advocate deregulation of all forms of special access services, and we cannot predict the outcome of the FCC’s proceedings in this regard or the likelihood of success of legislative proposals regarding deregulation. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to obtain special access services at reasonable rates, on a timely basis or that the quality of service we receive will be acceptable. In the event that we experience difficulties in obtaining high-quality, reliable, and reasonably priced service from the ILECs, the attractiveness of certain of our services to our customers could be impaired. We may be adversely affected by changes to the Communications Act. Congress may consider adopting significant revisions to the Communications Act at some point over the next several years. As part of that process, Congress may consider proposals for new statutory provisions requiring intercarrier compensation reform and the deregulation of ILEC broadband services (including the elimination of the incumbent local exchange carriers’ unbundling obligations and regulations governing special access services). The adoption of a new intercarrier compensation regime and the deregulation of ILEC broadband service would pose the risks described above regarding analogous FCC action. The 2008 presidential election will likely result in a change in the composition of the FCC. These changes could be either beneficial or detrimental for us, but cannot be predicted at this time. The market for our services is highly competitive, and many of our competitors have significant advantages that may adversely affect our ability to compete with them. We operate in an increasingly competitive environment and some companies may have competitive advantages over us. Most ILECs offer substantially the same services as we offer, in some cases at higher prices and in some cases at lower prices. ILECs benefit from: • long-standing relationships with their customers; 22 • greater financial and technical resources; • broader network coverage; • the ability to subsidize local services with revenue from unrelated businesses; and • recent regulatory decisions that decrease regulatory oversight of ILECs. Consolidations involving ILECs, CLECs and others may result in fewer, but stronger competitors. We also face competition from other CLECs, cable television companies and others. Our revenue and margins may also be reduced from price cutting by other telecommunications service providers that may pressure our pricing or require us to adjust prices for existing services upon contract renewals. In some of the markets in which we operate we may experience intense competition for particular customers, which could adversely affect our future revenue and margins. Consolidation in the telecommunications industry may adversely affect our purchases of transport services. Consolidation in the telecommunications industry may also impact some of our purchases of the local and long haul transport services that we utilize to connect our local markets and reach customers that are not connected to our network. Some of the carriers that supply these services are in the process of integrating their systems with acquired systems. These integrations may cause delays in provisioning services to us and other customers of these carriers or may affect their service quality, which could in turn have an adverse impact on our revenue. We depend on key personnel for our current and future performance. Our current and future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel. The loss or unavailability to us of members of our senior management team or key employees could significantly harm us. We cannot assure you that we would be able to locate or employ qualified replacements on acceptable terms for senior management or key employees if their services are no longer available. We may be required to record impairment charges in the future. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP, we are required to review the carrying amounts of our assets, including goodwill, to determine whether current events or circumstances warrant adjustments to those amounts. These determinations are based in part on our judgments regarding the cash flow potential of various assets, and involve projections that are inherently subject to change based on future events. If we conclude in the future that the cash flow potential of any of our assets, including those acquired in the Xspedius transaction, is significantly less than we believed at the time of purchase, and that conclusion is based on a long-term rather than short-term trend, we may need to record an impairment charge. In 2007, we recorded an impairment charge of $7.3 million on commercial paper investments with exposure to sub-prime mortgages that are past their maturity dates. The carrying value of these securities after recognition of the impairment is $14.5 million at December 31, 2007. Any additional impairment charges would have a negative impact on our earnings. Terrorism, a general business downturn in the U.S. or other business disruptions could affect our future operating results. Our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected in the event of a catastrophic event such as a terrorist attack on the United States, or a major earthquake, fire, hurricane or similar event that affects our central offices, corporate headquarters, network operations center or other facilities. Although we have implemented measures that are designed to mitigate the effects of a catastrophic event, we cannot predict the impact of such events. Our operating results and financial condition could be materially and 23 adversely affected if the U.S. economy is adversely affected by a recession or other business downturn that results in our customers buying less services, disconnecting services or in reduced prospects for the sale of new services. We depend on third party vendors for information systems. We have entered into agreements with vendors that provide for the development and operation of information technology systems such as billing systems. The failure of those vendors to perform their services in a timely and effective manner at acceptable costs could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to monitor costs, bill customers, provision customer orders, and achieve operating efficiencies. If we do not adapt to rapid changes in the telecommunications industry, we could lose customers or market share. The telecommunications industry continues to experience rapid and significant changes in technologies and architectures to deliver new services to customers. We expect that trend to continue into the foreseeable future. Additionally, we expect that these new technologies, such as VoIP, will enable new applications that will facilitate new services both in the network as well as at customers’ premises. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate or adapt to these changes and integrate them into the infrastructure and operations of our business, in order to offer on a timely basis a service that meets customer needs and demands. Our failure to obtain and integrate new technologies and applications could impact the breadth of our product portfolio resulting in product gaps, a less differentiated product suite and a less compelling offer to customers, as well as having a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must obtain access to rights-of-way and pole attachments on reasonable terms and conditions. The development, expansion, and maintenance of our networks depend on, among other things, our ability to obtain rights-of-way and pole attachments as well as certain governmental authorizations and permits. In order to compete effectively, we must obtain such rights, authorizations and permits in a timely manner, at reasonable costs, and on satisfactory terms and conditions. Any increase in the difficulty or cost of obtaining these rights, authorizations or permits could adversely affect us, particularly in areas where we must compete with companies that already have the necessary permits and access. In certain cities and municipalities where we provide network services over our own fiber optic facilities, we pay license or franchise fees for the use of public rights-of-way. The 1996 Act permits municipalities to charge these fees only if they are competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory, but certain municipalities may not conform their practices to the requirements of the 1996 Act in a timely manner or without legal challenge. We also face the risks that other cities may start imposing fees, fees will be increased, or franchises will not be renewed. Some of our franchise agreements also provide for increases or renegotiation of fees at certain intervals. Increases in fees may have a negative impact on our financial condition. If any of our existing franchise or license agreements for a particular metropolitan area are terminated prior to their expiration date and we are forced to remove our fiber optic cables from the streets or abandon our network in place, even with compensation, such termination could have a material adverse effect on us. We currently license fiber optic capacity from the Cable Operations in 23 of our markets, and we must reimburse the Cable Operations for the fees associated with the fiber optic capacity we license from them. In some cases pole owners have claimed that the Cable Operations must pay pole attachments fees at the higher telecommunications rate as a result of our license of capacity from the Cable Operations under the Capacity License Agreement. If the pole owners charge the higher telecommunications rate to the Cable Operations, we may be required to reimburse the Cable Operations for attachment fees at a higher rate. We have advocated changes in the Federal regulatory scheme affecting pole attachments that would , if adopted, result in rate 24 neutrality among various users of pole attachments. The prospects for success on this initiative are difficult to predict, especially in an election year. The Cable Operations may terminate our Capacity License Agreements before expiration upon: • a material impairment of the licensor’s ability to provide the license by law; • a material breach of the capacity license by us; or • the institution of any proceedings to impose any public utility or common carrier status or obligations on the licensor, or any other proceedings challenging the licensor’s operating authority as a result of the services provided to us under the capacity license. If the Capacity License Agreements are terminated prior to their scheduled expiration in 2028 or are not renewed, we may need to build, lease, or otherwise obtain fiber optic capacity. The terms of those arrangements may be materially less favorable to us than the terms of our existing capacity license. In addition, the Capacity License Agreements prohibit us from offering residential services or content services utilizing the licensed capacity. Our ability to offer residential and content services is limited by our Capacity License Agreements. Our Capacity License Agreements with the Cable Operations prohibit us from using facilities licensed under those agreements until 2028 to (i) engage in the business of providing, offering, packaging, marketing, promoting, or branding (alone or jointly with or as an agent for other parties) any residential services, or (ii) produce or otherwise provide entertainment, information, or other content services. Although we do not believe that these restrictions will materially affect our business and operations in the immediate future, we cannot predict the effect of such restrictions in the rapidly changing telecommunications industry. We do not currently have plans to offer residential or content services in our service areas not covered by the Capacity License Agreements. We will discontinue the use of the “Time Warner” name, which may adversely affect us. We use the name Time Warner Telecom under the terms of a Trade Name License with Time Warner Inc. On May 1, 2007 we extended the expiration date from July 13, 2007 to June 30, 2008, or earlier upon the occurrence of certain events. We have been conducting a branding initiative to select a new name and brand for our business. We have authorization to change our corporate name (and amend our Restated Certificate of Incorporation) to “TW Telecom Inc.” under the terms of an amendment to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation that was approved by our Board of Directors and a majority of our outstanding voting power on September 26, 2006, and must do so by July 1, 2008 unless we have changed our name to another name that does not include “Time Warner”. We intend to conduct business under “Time Warner Telecom” pursuant to the amended Trade Name License until we complete our branding initiative. As a result of our branding initiative, we could in the future adopt a different business name or seek to change our corporate name by amending our Restated Certificate of Incorporation. Although we believe that separate branding from Time Warner may be beneficial to our business and may, for example, eliminate previous confusion in markets also served by Time Warner Cable, the impact of a name change away from the well-established “Time Warner” name is uncertain and could be adverse. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 25 