Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business Our achievement of projected revenue and earnings targets in 2007 and beyond is dependent on our ability to successfully implement our strategic goals. We have adopted a business plan aimed at increasing our revenues during 2007. We expect this will be achieved through increased market penetration of existing products, greater pull-through in our branch network, and commercialization of new products. If we are unable to effectively execute these plans, our revenue and earnings could be lower than anticipated. Our ability to effectively execute these plans could be adversely affected if our business assumptions do not prove to be accurate or if adverse changes occur in our business environment, such as: potential declines or increased volatility in oil and natural gas prices that would adversely affect our customers and the energy industry causing a deferral or cancellation of spending plans; reduction in rig activity; reduction in prices or demand for our products and services; general global economic and business conditions, our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions, our ability to generate technological advances and compete on the basis of our technology, the potential for unexpected litigation or regulatory proceedings and potential higher prices for products used by us in our operations. Our achievement of productivity improvements in 2007 and beyond is dependent on our ability to successfully execute our efficiency initiatives. Starting in 2004, we initiated on a company-wide basis the use of lean management techniques. Lean management is a process designed to identify and eliminate waste in the business process through continuously improving work flow in an effort to meet customer needs. By more effectively producing products that specifically meet customer requirements, we hope to reduce our costs and increase utilization capacity at our existing facilities and improve productivity. Lean management applies these principles to the entire organization to better position the Company to realize its full potential. During 2006, we completed the final phase of consolidating and integrating our UK-based operations into our global network of engineering execution centers. Competition could result in reduced profitability and loss of market share. Contracts for our products and services are generally awarded on a competitive basis. Historically, our markets have been very competitive in terms of the number of suppliers providing alternative products and technologies. The most important factors considered by our customers in awarding contracts include: the availability and capabilities of our equipment; our ability to meet the customer’s delivery schedule; price; our reputation; our technology; our experience; and our safety record. In addition, we may encounter obstacles in our international operations that impair our ability to compete in individual countries. These obstacles may include: subsidies granted in favor of local companies; legal requirements for local content; taxes, import duties and fees imposed on foreign operators; contracts being denominated in local currencies; lower wage rates in foreign countries; and fluctuations in the exchange value of the United States dollar compared with the local currency. Any or all these factors could adversely affect our ability to compete and thus adversely affect our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our international operations may experience interruptions due to political and economic risks. We operate our business and market our products and services throughout the world. We are, therefore, subject to the risks customarily attendant to international operations and investments in foreign countries. Moreover, oil and gas producing regions in which we conduct business include many countries in the Middle East, West Africa, Venezuela and other parts of the world, where risks remain high or have increased significantly of late. We cannot accurately predict whether these risks will increase or abate. These risks include: nationalization; expropriation; war, terrorism and civil disturbances; restrictive actions by local governments; limitations on repatriation of earnings; changes in foreign tax laws; changes in banking regulations; and changes in currency exchange rates. The occurrence of any of these risks could have an adverse effect on regional demand for our products and services or our ability to provide them. Further, we may experience restrictions in travel to visit customers or start-up projects, and we may incur added costs by implementing security precautions. An interruption of our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Consistent with the laws of their respective jurisdictions of incorporation, our UK-based operations, our Japanese subsidiary and our Canadian subsidiary have made sales (as part of their ongoing businesses), and have informed us that they expect to continue making sales, of non-US equipment and services to customers in certain countries that are subject to US government trade sanctions (“Embargoed Countries”). In the past, these included sales to the Iraqi national oil companies permitted under the United Nations Oil-For-Food Program and to Iran, Sudan, Libya and Syria. Certain US sanctions on doing business in Iraq and Libya were lifted during 2004. Sales to customers in Embargoed Countries were less than 1% of our consolidated revenue in each of the years 2006 and 2005 and approximately 2% in 2004. A substantial or extended decline in commodity prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, thereby negatively affecting our revenue and results of operations. Our business is substantially dependent on the condition of the oil and gas industry and its willingness to spend capital on the exploration for and development of oil and gas reserves. A substantial or extended decline in these expenditures may result in the discovery of fewer new reserves of oil and gas and/or the delay in development of known reserves, thereby adversely affecting the market for our production equipment and services. The level of these expenditures is generally dependent on the industry’s view of future oil and gas prices, which have been characterized by significant volatility in recent years. Oil and gas prices are affected by numerous factors outside of our control, including: the level of exploration activity; worldwide economic activity; interest rates; the cost of capital and currency exchange rate fluctuations; environmental regulation; tax policies; energy policies and political requirements of national governments; coordination by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC); political environment, including war and terrorism; the cost of producing oil and gas; technological advances; changes in the supply of and demand for oil, natural gas and electricity; and weather conditions. The dollar amount of our backlog, as stated at any given time, is not necessarily indicative of our future cash flow. Backlog consists of firm customer orders that have satisfactory credit or financing arrangements in place, for which authorization to begin work or purchase materials has been given and for which a delivery date has been indicated. We cannot guarantee the revenues projected in our backlog will be realized, or if realized, will result in profits. Occasionally, a customer will cancel or delay a project for reasons beyond our control. In the event of a project cancellation, we are generally reimbursed for our costs, but typically have no contractual right to the total revenues expected from any such project as reflected in our backlog. In addition, projects may remain in our backlog for extended periods of time. If we were to experience significant cancellations or delays of projects in our backlog, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Most of our contracts are fixed-price contracts that are subject to gross profit fluctuations, which may impact our margin expectations. Most of our projects, including larger engineered systems projects, are performed on a fixed-price basis. We are responsible for all cost overruns, other than any resulting from customer-approved change orders. Our costs and any gross profit realized on our fixed-price contracts will often vary from the estimated amounts on which these contracts were originally based. This may occur for various reasons, including: errors in estimates or bidding; changes in availability and cost of labor and materials; and variations in productivity from our original estimates. These variations and the risks inherent in engineered built-to-order projects may result in reduced profitability or losses on our projects. Depending on the size of a project, variations from estimated contract performance can have a significant negative impact on our operating results or our financial condition. Long-term contracts for operation of owned separation facilities are cancelable. We operate certain of our assets under long-term contracts for our customers. In exchange for our ownership and operation of these assets, our customers pay us a tolling fee based on the facility’s throughput. Each contract is cancelable at the customer’s option subject to provisions which require, among other things, payment of significant cancellation fees. In the event of a cancellation, the Company would receive the cancellation charge and would retain custody of the assets, but would lose the future revenue stream associated with the cancelled contract. There can be no assurance the Company would have suitable alternative uses for the assets or cash which would offset the lost revenue from any canceled contract. Certain of our segments relied, and may continue to rely, on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of their revenues. There have been and are expected to be periods where a substantial portion of the revenue in certain of our segments is derived from a small group of customers. We have a number of ongoing relationships with major oil companies, national oil companies and large independent producers. The loss of one or more of these ongoing relationships could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations of the affected segments. We may experience losses caused by being unable to collect amounts due from customers. We typically do business with our customers on an open account basis. Credit limits are established for each customer and the credit exposure with them is routinely monitored. It is possible that we could experience losses from customers’ inability to pay amounts due the company. For our custom engineered built-to-order systems, customers make payments to us as the work progresses toward completion. However, if a customer became insolvent or filed for bankruptcy protection the value of the equipment may be less than the amount owed by the customer thereby creating a loss for the Company. While we take reasonable precautions to safeguard against experiencing such losses, there is no assurance they will not occur. Liability to customers under warranties may materially and adversely affect our cash flow. We typically warrant the workmanship and materials used in the equipment we manufacture. At the request of our customers, we may warrant the operational performance of the equipment we manufacture. Failure of this equipment to operate properly or to meet specifications may increase our costs by requiring additional engineering resources, replacement of parts and equipment or service or monetary reimbursement to a customer. Our warranties often are backed by letters of credit. At December 31, 2006, we had provided to our customers approximately $9.5 million in letters of credit related to performance and warranties. We have received warranty claims in the past, and we expect to continue to receive them in the future. To the extent that we incur warranty claims in any period substantially in excess of our warranty reserve, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to attract and retain skilled labor is crucial to our profitability. Our ability to succeed depends in part on our ability to attract and retain skilled manufacturing workers, equipment operators, engineers and other technical personnel. Our ability to expand our operations depends primarily on our ability to increase our labor force. Demand for these workers can fluctuate in line with overall activity levels within our industry and from competition from other industries. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements could result in increases in the rates of wages we must pay. If this were to occur and we were unable to pass such cost increases on to customers, the effect would be a reduction in our profits and to the extent that our available work force were to contract, the effect would diminish our production capacity and profitability and impairment of our growth potential. Our ability to manage third party sub-contractors could affect our profitability. For certain orders, we use third party contractors to do portions of the work. Also, in the future, we intend to increase our utilization of sub-contractors, especially for fabrication requirements, when it makes economic sense to do so. Using sub-contractors carries a degree of risk and could result in project delays; escalated costs; substandard quality; rework and warranty costs that may not be recoverable under the prime contract resulting in lower project margins or, possibly, losses due to non-performance; and liquidated damages. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business reputation and profitability. Future acquisitions, if any, may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business and adversely affect our operating results. We intend to consider and, if feasible, to make strategic acquisitions of other companies, assets and product lines that complement or expand our existing businesses. We cannot assure you we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition opportunities or to finance and complete any particular acquisition. Furthermore, acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: the diversion of our management’s attention to the assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired business; possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process; potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies; potential lack of experience operating in a geographic market of the acquired business; an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements; and the possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the business combination. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash flow from an acquired business or realize other anticipated benefits of an acquisition. Our quarterly revenues and cash flow may fluctuate significantly. Our revenues are substantially derived from significant contracts that are often performed over periods of two to six or more quarters. As a result, our revenue and cash flow may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, depending upon our ability to replace existing contracts with new orders and upon the extent of any delays in completing existing projects. Our insurance policies may not cover all claims against us or may be insufficient in amount to cover such claims. Some of our products are used in potentially hazardous production applications that can cause personal injury; loss of life; damage to property, equipment or the environment; and suspension of operations. We maintain insurance coverage against these and other risks associated with our business in accordance with standard industry practice. This insurance may not protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, losses resulting from business interruption or acts of terrorism or damages from breach of contract by the Company or based on alleged fraud or deceptive trade practices. We cannot assure you our insurance will be adequate in risk coverage or policy limits to cover all losses or liabilities that we may incur. Moreover, we cannot assure that we will be able in the future to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. Any future damages caused by our products or services that are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may incur substantial costs to comply with our environmental obligations. In our equipment fabrication and refurbishing operations, we generate and manage hazardous wastes. These include: waste solvents; waste paint; waste oil; wash-down wastes; and sandblasting wastes. We attempt to identify and address environmental issues before acquiring properties and to utilize industry accepted operating and disposal practices regarding the management and disposal of hazardous wastes. Nevertheless, either others or we may have released hazardous materials on our properties or in other locations where hazardous wastes have been taken for disposal. We may be required by federal, state or foreign environmental laws to remove hazardous wastes or to remediate sites where they have been released. We could also be subjected to civil and criminal penalties for violations of those laws. Our costs to comply with these laws may adversely affect our earnings. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our ability to obtain necessary financing may be limited. Our ability to execute our growth strategies may be limited by our ability to secure and retain reasonably priced financing. From time to time, we have utilized significant amounts of letters of credit to secure our performance, bids or milestone payments on large projects, and to provide guarantees or warranties to our customers. Outstanding letters of credit can consume a significant portion of our available liquidity under our revolving credit facilities. Some of our competitors are larger companies with better access to capital, which could give them a competitive advantage over us should our access to capital be limited. Our system of internal controls is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements for external purposes. A loss of public confidence in the quality of our internal controls or disclosures could have a negative impact on us. Our system of internal controls is designed to provide reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. However, any system of internal controls is subject to inherent limitations and the design of our controls may not provide absolute assurances that all of our objectives will be entirely met. This includes the possibility that controls may be inappropriately circumvented or overridden, that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that misstatements due to errors or fraud may not be prevented or detected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 