Item 1A. Risk Factors. Set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file or furnish with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and operations and cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Risks Related to Operations Current market conditions expose us to a variety of risks. Current economic and commercial real estate conditions continue to show signs of weakness and uncertainty and could negatively impact our ability to execute on our business plan. For example, these conditions could adversely impact our ability to: ·add new assets to the portfolio, which could cause our common stock price to decline; ·retain tenants or promptly re-let vacant space on favorable terms as leases mature, which could result in a reduction of our funds from operations and cash available for distribution; ·sell assets or refinance debt on favorable terms or at all, which could result in a reduction of our results of operations and weaken our liquidity and financial condition; and ·raise additional equity capital to support our business on favorable terms or at all, which could cause our common stock price to decline. 15 If we lower or eliminate our dividend, the market value of our common stock may decline. The level of our common stock dividend is established by our Board of Directors from time to time based on a variety of factors, including market conditions, our cash available for distribution, our funds from operations and our maintenance of REIT status. Various factors could cause our Board of Directors to decrease or eliminate our common stock dividend level, including our desire due to market conditions or otherwise to maintain higher levels of liquidity, tenant defaults resulting in a material reduction in our cash flows or a material loss resulting from an adverse change in one or more of the tenants underlying our investments. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level and we cannot assure you that we will be able to pay dividends in the future. If we lower or eliminate our common stock dividend, the market value of common stock in our company could be adversely affected. We conduct a significant part of our business with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and its affiliates, and their continued business with us is not guaranteed. We rely on Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and its affiliates in various aspects of our business. For example: ·Wells Fargo Bank and its affiliates provide us with asset financing through a revolving credit agreement. ·We have obtained mortgage financing on our owned properties from Wells Fargo Bank (as successor to Wachovia Bank, N.A.) in the past, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. ·Affiliates of Wells Fargo Bank have performed investment banking services for us, including in connection with our initial public offering, our CDO transaction and each of our follow-on public equity offerings. These parties are not obligated to do business with us, and any adverse developments in their business or in our relationship with them could result in these parties choosing not to do business with us or a significant reduction in our business with them. Termination of our business or a significant reduction in our business with these parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity. The market price of our stock may be adversely impacted by our pace of investment activity. The markets in which we compete for investments are competitive and our pace of investment activity continues to be impacted by competitive and market conditions. If our pace of investment activity does not match market expectations the market price of our stock could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Portfolio Assets Single tenant leases involve significant risks of tenant default. We primarily own and manage commercial real estate properties that are leased to a single tenant. Therefore, the financial failure of, or other default in payment by, a single tenant under its lease is likely to cause a complete reduction in the operating cash flows from that property and a significant reduction in the value of that property, and could cause a significant reduction in our revenues, cash flows and hence our liquidity, and a significant impairment loss recorded directly to our Statement of Operations. Credit ratings may prove to be inaccurate. We consider credit ratings assigned by S&P and/or Moody’s to our tenants, their guarantors or parent companies and to our structured CMBS securities when making investment and leasing decisions. A credit rating is not a guarantee of continued financial performance and only reflects the rating agency's opinion of an entity's ability to meet its financial commitments, such as its senior unsecured obligations, in accordance with their stated terms. A rating may ultimately prove not to accurately reflect the credit risk associated with a particular tenant. In addition, ratings may be changed, qualified, suspended, placed on watch or withdrawn over time. If a tenant’s rating is downgraded, qualified, suspended, placed on watch or withdrawn, such tenant may be more likely to default in its obligations to us, and investors may view our cash flows as less stable. An adverse change in the financial condition of one or more tenants could have a material adverse impact on us. We rely on rent payments from our tenants for our cash flows and make property investments based on the financial strength of such tenant and our expectations of their continued payment of rent under the lease. Therefore, adverse changes in the financial condition of the tenants or the certainty of their ability to pay rents could have a material adverse impact on us. For example: ·The bankruptcy or insolvency of any of our tenants could result in that tenant ceasing to make rental payments, resulting in a reduction of our cash flows and losses to our company. In addition to the rent loss, due to our focus on net leased properties, our expenses will likely increase as the tenant will no longer pay or reimburse us for the operating costs at the property. 16 ·The credit quality of the tenant or tenants is frequently a significant factor in determining the value of our properties, and an adverse change in the subject tenant’s financial condition or a decline in the credit rating of such tenant may result in a decline in the value of our properties and a resulting impairment charge directly to our Statement of Operations. ·An adverse change in the financial condition of one or more of our tenants or a decline in the credit rating of one or more of our tenants could result in a margin call if the related asset is being financed on our Wells Fargo Bank credit agreement, and could make it more difficult for us to arrange long-term financing for that asset, including by increasing our cost of financing. Our assets may be subject to impairment charges, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We periodically evaluate our investments for impairment indicators. If we determine that an impairment has occurred (and solely in the case of our securities investments, the impairment is due to credit factors), we would be required to reduce the carrying value of the investment, and record a loss directly to the Statement of Operations in the applicable period. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the status of significant leases, the financial condition of major tenants, our expectations regarding future cash flows and the estimated fair value of our investment and/or related collateral. We incurred substantial impairment charges in each of the last three years, including $7.7 million of other-than-temporary impairment losses on one of our securities investments during 2010, and $11.9 million of impairment losses on an owned property in 2009. We may continue to take similar impairment charges in the future. These impairments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Bankruptcy laws will limit our remedies if a tenant becomes bankrupt and rejects the lease. We rely on rent payments from the tenant to service our financing of the asset and generate the return we expect to earn. If the tenant becomes insolvent or bankrupt, they have the right under the United States Bankruptcy Code to reject the lease and rent payments could cease. In such a case, our remedies will be limited under the Bankruptcy Code. The premises may not be recoverable promptly from the tenant and our claim for damages, which will be unsecured and is limited to rent under the lease for the greater of one year or 15 percent (but not more than three years) of the remaining term, plus rent already due but unpaid, may not be sufficient to cover our debt service and any other expenses with respect to the property. We are subject to tenant credit concentrations that make us more susceptible to adverse events with respect to certain tenants. We are subject to tenant credit concentrations, the most significant of which are the following as of December 31, 2011: ·approximately $198.2 million, or 11.2%, of our assets represent investments in three properties leased to, or leases guaranteed by, Nestlé Holdings, Inc.; ·approximately $195.2 million, or 11.0%, of our assets represent investments in seven properties leased to the United States Government; and ·approximately $93.0 million, or 5.2%, of our assets represent investments in one property leased to, or lease guaranteed by, TJX Companies, Inc. Any bankruptcy, insolvency or failure to make rental payments by, or any adverse change in the financial condition of, one or more of these tenants, or any other tenant to whom we may have a significant credit concentration now or in the future, could result in a material reduction of our cash flows and hence our liquidity or material losses to our company. We are subject to tenant industry concentrations that make us more susceptible to adverse events with respect to certain industries. We are subject to industry concentrations, the most significant of which are the following as of December 31, 2011: ·approximately $261.9 million, or 16.2%, of our assets represent investments in properties leased to, or leases guaranteed by, companies in the insurance industry (e.g., Aon Corporation, Allstate Insurance Company, Farmers New World Life Insurance Company and Aetna Life Insurance Company); ·approximately $258.7 million, or 16.0%, of our assets represent investments in properties leased to, or leases guaranteed by, companies in the food and beverage industry (e.g., Nestlé Holdings, Inc. and Cadbury Holdings Limited); 17 ·approximately $212.5 million, or 13.1%, of our assets represent investments in properties leased to, or leases guaranteed by, federal or state governmental entities or branches or units thereof (e.g., United States Government and County of Yolo, California); ·approximately $145.9 million, or 9.0%, of our assets represent investments in properties leased to, or leases guaranteed by, companies in the financial industry (e.g., Capital One Financial Corporation, General Motors Financial Company, Inc. and Invesco Holding Co. Ltd.); ·approximately $109.0 million, or 6.7%, of our assets represent investments in properties leased to, or leases guaranteed by, companies in the retail grocery industry (e.g., The Kroger Co. and Koninklijke Ahold, N.V.); ·approximately $93.0 million, or 5.2%, of our assets represent investments in properties leased to, or leases guaranteed by, companies in the retail department stores industry (TJX Companies, Inc.); and ·approximately $83.2 million, or 5.1%, of our assets represent investments in properties leased to, or leases guaranteed by, companies in the building materials industry (Lowe’s Companies, Inc.). Any downturn in one or more of these industries, or in any other industry in which we may have a significant credit concentration now or in the future, could result in a material reduction of our cash flows and hence our liquidity or material losses to our company. We are subject to geographic concentrations that make us more susceptible to adverse events in these areas. We are subject to geographic concentrations, the most significant of which are the following as of December 31, 2011: ·approximately $208.4 million, or 11.8%, of our assets represent investments in properties located in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania metropolitan area; ·approximately $187.5 million, or 10.6%, of our assets represent investments in properties located in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area; ·approximately $127.9 million, or 7.2%, of our assets represent investments in properties located in the New York City and Northern New Jersey area; ·approximately $108.7 million, or 6.1%, of our assets represent investments in properties located in the Chicago, Illinois metropolitan area; ·approximately $106.2 million, or 6.0%, of our assets represent investments in properties located in the Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas metropolitan area; and ·approximately $100.2 million, or 5.7%, of our assets represent investments in properties located in the Southern California area. An economic downturn or other adverse events or conditions such as terrorist attacks or natural disasters in one or more of these areas, or any other area where we may have a significant credit concentration now or in the future, could result in a material reduction of our cash flows and hence our liquidity or material losses to our company. Our investments in assets backed by below investment grade credits have a greater risk of default. We invest in assets where the underlying tenant’s credit rating is below investment grade (approximately $117.4 million, or 7.0%, of our portfolio as of December 31, 2011). Investments backed by below investment grade tenants comprised a larger percentage of our new investment activity during 2010 and 2011 and may continue to do so in the future. These investments will have a greater risk of default and bankruptcy than investments in properties leased exclusively to investment grade tenants. Our investments in assets where the underlying tenant does not have a publicly available credit rating expose us to certain risks. We have historically been successful at obtaining attractively priced long-term financing for our assets due in part to the high credit quality of the underlying tenant. When we invest in a property where the underlying tenant does not have a publicly available credit rating, we rely on our own estimates of the tenant’s credit rating. If our lender disagrees with our ratings estimates, we may not be able to obtain our desired level of leverage and/or our financing costs may exceed those that we projected. This outcome could have an adverse impact on our returns on that asset and hence our operating results. 18 Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and their values may decline. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to vary our portfolio by selling and buying investments in response to changes in economic and other conditions is limited. We may encounter difficulty in disposing of properties when tenants vacate either at the expiration of the applicable lease or otherwise. If we decide to sell any of our investments, our ability to do so and the prices we receive upon sale may be affected by many factors, including debt structures in place on the investment, any limits of our form of property ownership such as an estate for years or ground lease, the number of potential buyers, the number of competing properties on the market and other market conditions, as well as whether the property is leased and if it is leased, the terms of the lease. As a result, we may be unable to sell our investments for an extended period of time or without incurring a loss, which would adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property. We are subject to general risks of investing in real estate. These risks may include those listed below: ·non-performance of lease obligations by tenants; ·civil unrest, acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses, and acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001; ·adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; ·the costs of complying or fines or damages as a result of non-compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act; ·changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; ·the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures; and ·other circumstances beyond our control. Should any of these events occur, our financial condition, liquidity and operating results could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Ownership of Real Estate We may not be able to renew our leases or re-lease our properties. Upon the maturity of leases at our properties, we may not be able to renew the leases or re-let all or a portion of that property, or the terms of renewal or re-letting (including the cost of concessions to tenants) may be less favorable to us than the current lease terms. We focus on single tenant properties and non-renewal of the lease by the tenant is likely to result in some downtime before the property is re-leased and a complete reduction in the cash flows from the property until the property is re-let. In addition, we will be responsible for all of the operating costs following a vacancy at a single tenant building. If we are unable to renew existing leases or re-let promptly all or a substantial portion of the space located in our properties, or if the rental rates upon renewal or re-letting are significantly lower than the current rates, our funds from operations and cash available for distribution to stockholders will be adversely affected due to the resulting reduction in rental receipts and increase in property operating costs. Current economic weakness could adversely impact our ability or the terms under which we are able to renew leases as they mature or re-let vacant space. Operating expenses of our properties could reduce our cash flow and funds available for future dividends. For certain of our owned properties, we are responsible for operating costs of the property. In these instances, our lease requires the tenant to reimburse us for all or a portion of these costs, either in the form of an expense reimbursement or increased rent. Our reimbursement may be limited to a fixed amount or a specified percentage annually. To the extent operating costs exceed our reimbursement, our returns and net cash flows from the property and hence our overall operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We have greater exposure to operating costs when we invest in owned properties leased to the United States Government. Our leases with the United States Government are typical Government Services Administration, or GSA, type leases. These leases do not provide that the United States Government is wholly responsible for operating costs of the property, but include an operating cost component within the rent we receive that increases annually by an agreed upon percentage based upon the Consumer Price Index, or CPI. Thus, we have greater exposure to operating costs on our properties leased to the United States Government because if the operating costs of the property increase faster than the CPI, we will bear those excess costs. 19 We are subject to risks associated with the development of properties. We have begun and expect to continue to make new investments through our construction to acquisition program, where we fund all or substantially all of the construction costs for a build-to-suit project through a joint venture with a developer partner. As of December 31, 2011, we had one project in process (scheduled for completion in the first quarter of 2013) where we have funded $8.2 million toward a total expected investment including amounts borrowed of approximately $53 million. We are subject to certain risks associated with the development of this or any other property we intend to develop, including the following: ·Completion of the project in a timely and workmanlike manner will be dependent upon the efforts of various parties outside of our control, such as our developer partner and the general contractor and any subcontractors. Construction could be delayed if these parties fail to perform their obligations or for a variety of other reasons outside of our control, which could subject us to losses for failure to timely deliver the completed project to the tenant or result in a termination of the underlying lease. ·Unanticipated environmental conditions at the property could also delay completion of the project or force us to abandon the project if we determine that remediation of the conditions would be too expensive. ·Construction costs may exceed original estimates, which could adversely impact our expected return from the investment. Our investments in properties subject to an estate for years or ground lease are subject to various unique risks. Our ownership interest in certain properties includes an estate for years in or a ground lease of the land, along with fee title to the improvements on the land. An estate for years and a ground lease are more limited forms of ownership than a fee interest, as they generally mean that another unrelated party has a present or future interest in the land. Our estate for years and ground lease investments are subject to a variety of risks which could materially adversely impact the value of our investment, such as: ·the existence of the estate for years or ground lease and the interest of a third party in the property could reduce the value of our investment or make it more difficult or more expensive to sell or obtain financing for our investment; and ·unless we have purchased the land, we will lose any remaining investment in these properties when the estate for years and/or ground lease expires. An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the insurance policy limits on our owned properties could subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties. Our comprehensive loss insurance policies may include substantial deductibles and certain exclusions. For example, our earthquake insurance coverage for properties we own in California will typically include a customary deductible of five percent of our insurable value. If we are subject to an uninsured loss or a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible, we could lose part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, the property, which could harm our operating results and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. Noncompliance with environmental laws could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. The real properties we own are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. Under these laws, courts and government agencies have the authority to require the current owner of a contaminated property to clean up the property, even if the owner did not know of and was not responsible for the contamination. For example, liability can be imposed upon us based on activities of one of our tenants or a prior owner. Prior to acquisition of a property, we obtain Phase I environmental reports and, in some cases, a Phase II environmental report. However, these reports may not reveal all environmental conditions at a property and we may incur material environmental liabilities of which we are unaware. The costs incurred to clean up a contaminated property, to defend against a claim, or to comply with environmental laws could be material and could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and operating results. 20 New rules relating to the accounting for leases could adversely affect our business. The Financial Accounting Standards Board and International Accounting Standards Board have proposed accounting rules that may be adopted in 2012 or 2013 and would require tenants (but not landlords) to capitalize all leases on their balance sheets by recognizing their rights and obligations. Because landlords are exempted from the rules in their current form, our financial statements are not expected to be materially impacted. However, there can be no assurance that landlords will continue to be exempted from any final rules that may be adopted. If any final rules do not exempt landlords, our financial statements could be materially impacted such as by capitalizing our leases and changing the timing of recognition of lease income. If the proposal is adopted in its current form, it could adversely affect us by causing tenants to approach their leasing decisions differently. Tenants may favor owning as opposed to leasing properties, because this accounting change would remove many of the differences in the way tenants account for owned property versus leased property. Tenants may also prefer shorter lease terms, in an effort to reduce the lease liability required to be recorded on the balance sheet. The proposal could also make lease renewal options less attractive, as, under certain circumstances, the rules would require a tenant to assume that a renewal right would be exercised and accrue a liability relating to the longer lease term. Risks Related to Debt Assets We invest in CMBS securities, including subordinate securities, which entail significant risks. We invest in commercial mortgage-backed securities, or CMBS. CMBS securities entitle the holder to receive payments that depend primarily on the cash flow from a specified pool of commercial mortgage loans. Our CMBS investments primarily include classes of securities backed by pools of first mortgage loans on net lease properties (with most of the underlying loan collateral originated by us in the mid to late 1990s). Generally, we have invested in subordinate classes of the securitization pool, or securities that are in a near “first loss” position in the event of losses on the assets within the pool. Consequently, in the event of a loss on one or more commercial real estate loans contained in a securitization, we could lose all or a substantial portion of our investment in the related security. We have limited recourse in the event of a default on any of our mortgage loans. Our mortgage loan investments are non-recourse obligations of the property owner, and, in the event of default, we are generally dependent entirely on the loan collateral to recover our investment. Our loan collateral consists primarily of a mortgage on the underlying property and an assignment of the tenant’s lease. In the event of a default, we may not be able to recover the premises promptly and the proceeds we receive upon sale of the property may be adversely affected by risks generally incident to interests in real property, including changes in general or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments, declines in real estate values, increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses including energy costs, changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation, acts of God, and other factors which are beyond our or our borrower’s control. As discussed above, bankruptcy laws will limit our remedies with respect to the tenant’s lease. There can be no assurance that our remedies with respect to the loan collateral will provide us with a recovery adequate to recover our investment. We may experience losses on our mortgage loans. Our portfolio includes mortgage loans on properties subject to a net lease. The typical net lease requires the borrower or tenant to maintain casualty insurance on the underlying property. These insurance policies may include substantial deductibles and certain exclusions. If the underlying property is subject to a casualty loss that is uninsured or subject to a substantial deductible, rent payments on the related lease may cease, our loan may default and we could lose some or all of our investment. Our collateral rights under our corporate credit notes are limited. Our collateral rights on our corporate credit notes are more limited than the collateral rights we have under our long-term mortgage loans. Our corporate credit notes represent one of two notes comprising a single first mortgage loan on a net lease property. Both notes are secured by the same first mortgage and assignment of the tenant’s lease and rents, and the note holders have agreed amongst themselves that the corporate credit note holder will have a junior claim on the real estate mortgage and a senior claim on the rents in the event of a tenant bankruptcy and lease rejection. So our collateral rights with respect to the real estate mortgage will be junior to the holder of the related real estate note. Further, while we will have a senior claim on the lease assignment in a tenant bankruptcy, as discussed above, our claim for damages will be unsecured and limited to an amount defined under the Bankruptcy Code (the greater of one year’s rent or 15% (but not more than three years) of rent over the remaining lease term, plus rent already due but unpaid). Therefore, there can be no assurance that our remedies with respect to the loan collateral will provide us with a recovery adequate to recover our investment. 21 We may make mezzanine investments and they will likely have a greater risk of loss than mortgage loans. We have made and may continue to make in the future mezzanine and other generally subordinate investments. These investments generally involve a higher degree of risk than our first mortgage loans. We may not be able to recover some or all of any future mezzanine investments. We may be required to repurchase assets that we have sold or to indemnify holders of the debt issued in our term financings. If any of the assets we have pledged to obtain long-term financing do not comply with representations and warranties that we make about certain characteristics of the assets, the borrowers and the underlying properties, we may be required to repurchase those assets, repay the related borrowings or replace the assets with substitute assets. In addition, in the case of assets that we have sold such as those in our CDO, we may be required to indemnify persons for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty. Repurchased assets may require a significant allocation of working capital to carry on our books, and our ability to borrow against such assets may be limited. Any significant repurchases, repayments or indemnification payments could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and operating results. Risks Related to Borrowings Our use of debt financing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flows will be insufficient to meet required principal and interest payments on the debt, and the risk that we will be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness, or that the terms of such refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of our existing indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, the scheduled principal payments on our long-term debt over the next five years and thereafter were as follows: Expected Maturity Dates 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter (in thousands, notional amounts) Mortgages on real estate investments $136,077 $74,371 $79,534 $270,668 $281,147 $127,207 Credit agreement 3,271 67,397 – – – – Secured term loan 15,380 13,602 12,349 13,405 12,528 20,878 Convertible senior notes 35,009 – – – – – Other long-term debt – – – – 30,930 – Included in the above amounts are balloon payments on our debt instruments, including $117 million of non-recourse mortgage debt due in August 2012 on our three Nestlé properties and $35 million of convertible senior notes that may be put to us by the holders in October 2012. Most of our debt provides for balloon payments that are payable at maturity. Our ability to make these balloon payments will depend upon our ability to refinance the related debt, raise additional equity capital and/or sell assets or any related collateral. Our ability to accomplish these goals will be affected by various factors existing at the relevant time, such as capital and credit market conditions, the state of the national and regional economies, local real estate conditions, available interest rate levels, the lease terms for and equity in and value of any related collateral, our financial condition and the operating history of the collateral, if any. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to repay our debt or refinance it on terms as favorable as the existing indebtedness or at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing to fund the scheduled balloon payments or to sell the related collateral at a price that generates sufficient proceeds to make the scheduled balloon payments, we could lose all or a substantial portion of our investment in the asset financed. Our convertible senior notes and other long-term debt referenced in the table above are unsecured and, therefore, it may be more difficult to generate sufficient proceeds to repay these obligations in the future. These obligations are also recourse, meaning that our lender will have general recourse against our assets if we fail to make required payments on the debt. Our debt obligations could adversely affect our ability to execute on our growth strategy as we may need to utilize the liquidity we could otherwise use to add new assets to repay our debt obligations. If our debt cannot be repaid, refinanced or extended, we may not be able to make distributions to stockholders at expected levels or at all. Further, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of a refinancing result in higher interest rates or other restrictive financial covenants upon the refinancing, then such refinancing would adversely affect our cash flows and funds available for operation and distribution. 22 Our credit agreement with Wells Fargo Bank is a secured, recourse obligation and exposes us to interest rate and margin call risks. We have financed certain of our investments pursuant to a credit agreement we have entered into with Wells Fargo Bank. This borrowing agreement exposes us to a variety of risks, including the following: ·It is priced at floating rates based on one-month LIBOR, or the London Interbank Offered Rate. Therefore, increases in the one-month LIBOR rate will cause our borrowing costs to increase and our net income to decrease. ·The agreement is recourse to all of our other assets. In the event we are unable to satisfy our payment obligations under the agreement from the assets securing our borrowings, we will remain obligated to satisfy these obligations out of other assets of our company. ·We are subject to margin call risk under the credit agreement documents. Wells Fargo Bank has the right in its sole discretion to revalue our collateral, provided that Wells Fargo Bank may not reduce the value of any of our collateral other than CMBS securities due to general credit spread or interest rate fluctuations. In the event Wells Fargo Bank determines that the value of our collateral has decreased, it has the right to make a margin call. A margin call would require us to make up any collateral shortfall with cash or additional portfolio assets. We may not have sufficient cash or portfolio assets to do so. A failure to meet a margin call could cause us to default under the agreement and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. ·We have borrowed the full amount permitted under the loan documents based on the lender’s current valuation of our collateral. In order to borrow any additional amounts under the credit agreement, we will be required to post additional collateral. Further, Wells Fargo Bank has the right to reject any asset that we seek to finance pursuant to the credit agreement. Leveraging our portfolio is an important component of our strategy and subjects us to increased risk of loss. A key component of our strategy is to borrow against, or leverage, our assets to allow us to invest in a greater number of assets and enhance our asset returns. However, leverage also subjects us to increased risk of loss. We are more highly leveraged compared to certain of our competitors. The use of leverage may result in increased losses to us in the following ways: ·We rely on the cash flows from the assets financed to fund our debt service requirements. Therefore, in the event of a tenant default on its rent payments, our losses are expected to increase as we will need to fund our debt service requirements from other sources. ·To the extent we have financed our assets under our variable rate credit agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, our debt service requirements will increase as short-term interest rates rise. In addition, if short-term interest rates rise in excess of the yields on our assets financed, we will be subject to losses. ·Our lenders will have a first priority claim on the collateral we pledge and the right to foreclose on the collateral. Therefore, if we default on our debt service obligations, we would be at risk of losing the related collateral. ·Our credit agreement with Wells Fargo Bank is a fully recourse lending arrangement. Therefore, if we default on this agreement, our lenders will have general recourse to our company’s assets, rather than limited recourse to just the assets financed. We may not be able to implement our long-term financing strategy. Part of our business strategy is to secure long-term financing of our assets to enable us to invest in a greater number of assets and enhance our asset returns. Our ability to implement our long-term financing strategy is subject to the following risks: ·We may not be able to achieve our desired leverage level due to market conditions, decreases in the market value of our assets, increases in interest rates and other factors. ·We are subject to conditions in the mortgage and other long-term financing markets which are beyond our control, including the liquidity of these markets and maintenance of attractive credit spreads. ·In the event of an adverse change in the financial condition of our underlying tenant, it may not be possible or it may be uneconomical for us to obtain long-term financing for the subject asset. Our inability to implement our long-term financing strategy may cause us to experience lower leveraged returns on our assets than would otherwise be the case, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 23 Certain of our assets are cross-collateralized, and certain of our indebtedness is cross-defaulted. As of December 31, 2011, our three Nestlé properties all serve as collateral for a single mortgage note on the three properties. In addition, (1) our secured term loan is secured by interests in 28 of our investments and (2) our credit agreement with Wells Fargo Bank is secured by interests in 19 of our investments. To the extent that any of our investments are cross-collateralized, the lender will have recourse to any and all of the assets that secure the debt in the event that we default under the loan documents. Therefore, cross-collateralizing our investments generally exposes us to increased risk of loss under the related financing arrangement. In addition, our credit agreement with Wells Fargo Bank and our convertible senior notes contain cross-default provisions, meaning that a default under one obligation could result in the other lender accelerating the maturity of our obligations to them. We may not be able to finance our investments on a long-term basis on attractive terms, which may require us to seek more costly financing for our investments or to liquidate assets. As part of our investment strategy, we may acquire new assets and finance them on a floating rate, recourse borrowing agreement with the expectation that we will obtain long-term, fixed rate, non-recourse financing in the future. During the period we finance these assets on a recourse facility, we bear the risk of being unable to finance the assets on a non-recourse basis at attractive prices or in a timely matter, or at all. If it is not possible or economical for us to finance such assets on a non-recourse basis, we may be unable to pay down our recourse borrowings, or be required to liquidate the assets at a loss in order to do so. If we sell an asset at less than what the lender has advanced to us against that asset, we will remain liable to the lender for the shortfall because of the recourse nature of the facility. Hedging transactions may not effectively protect us against anticipated risks and may subject us to certain other risks and costs. We may enter into hedging transactions to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations prior to the time we obtain long-term fixed rate financing for our assets. Our hedging strategy exposes us to certain risks, among them the following: ·If we do not complete the long-term financing or obtain it in the time frame we designate at the time of the hedge transaction, our hedging strategy may not have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. ·Our hedging strategy may serve to reduce the returns which we could possibly achieve if we did not utilize the hedge. ·Our hedging transactions may not perform as expected, including during periods of market dislocation. ·No hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates and, therefore, our hedging strategy may not have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. ·Hedging transactions are entered into at the discretion of our management team and they may conclude that it is not in our company’s best interest to hedge the interest rate risks with respect to certain expected long-term financings, particularly during periods of market dislocation. We are not currently carrying an open interest rate hedge to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations for assets for which we may obtain long-term financing for in the future. Our decision to do so leaves us exposed to increases in long-term interest rates for those assets and, therefore, may make it more difficult or more costly to obtain long-term financing. ·Hedging costs increase as the period covered by the hedge increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising. We may fail to qualify for hedge accounting treatment. We record derivative and hedge transactions in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Under these standards, we may fail to qualify for hedge accounting treatment for a number of reasons, including if we use instruments that do not meet the applicable accounting definition of a derivative (such as short sales), we fail to satisfy applicable accounting hedge documentation requirements or we fail initial or subsequent quarterly hedge effectiveness assessment requirements. If we fail to qualify for hedge accounting treatment, our operating results may suffer because any losses on the derivatives we enter into would be charged to our Statement of Operations without any offset from the change in fair value of the related hedged transaction. 24 Risks Related to Business Strategy and Policies We face significant competition that could harm our business. We are subject to significant competition. Our competitors include other public and private REITs, private real estate companies, pension funds and individuals. We may face new competitors and, due to our focus on single tenant properties located throughout the United States, and because many of our competitors are locally and/or regionally focused, we will not encounter the same competitors in each region of the United States. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources and may have other advantages over our company. Our competitors may be willing to accept lower returns on their investments, may have access to lower cost capital and may succeed in buying the assets that we target for acquisition. We may incur costs on unsuccessful acquisitions that we will not be able to recover. Our failure to compete successfully could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and operating results. Our network of investment sale brokers and independent mortgage brokers may sell investment opportunities to our competitors. An important source of our investments is our network of investment sale brokers and independent mortgage brokers. These brokers are not contractually obligated to do business with us. Further, our competitors also have relationships with many of these brokers and actively compete with us in our efforts to obtain investments from these brokers. As a result, we may lose potential transactions to our competitors, causing our investment pace to fail to meet market expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our stock. Joint venture investments will expose us to certain risks. We may from time to time enter into joint venture transactions for portions of our exiting or future portfolio assets, which may include certain of our real properties and/or some or all of our loan and securities investments. Investing in this manner subjects us to certain risks, among them the following: ·We will not exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the joint venture’s business and assets and, thus, we may not be able to take actions that we believe are in our company’s best interests. ·We may be required to accept liability for obligations of the joint venture (such as recourse carve-outs on mortgage debt obligations) beyond our economic interest. ·Our returns on joint venture assets may be adversely affected if the assets are not held for the long-term, or a period of about ten years. Our ability to grow our business will be limited by our ability to attract debt or equity financing, and we may have difficulty accessing capital on attractive terms. We expect to fund future investments primarily from debt or equity capital. Therefore, our ability to grow is dependent upon the availability of debt or equity capital from public or institutional investors. Further, additional debt and/or equity capital may not be available to us at an acceptable cost. The capital markets also have been, and in the future may be, adversely affected by various other events or conditions beyond our control, such as the United States’ military involvement in the Middle East and elsewhere, the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, the ongoing War on Terrorism by the United States and the bankruptcy of major companies, such as Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Enron Corp. Events such as an escalation in the War on Terrorism, new terrorist attacks, or additional bankruptcies in the future, as well as other events beyond our control, could adversely affect the availability and cost of capital for our business. As a REIT, we will also be dependent upon the availability and cost of capital in the REIT markets specifically, which can be impacted by various factors such as interest rate levels, the strength of real estate markets and investors’ appetite for REIT investments. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting sufficient debt or equity financing to fund future investments, or at an acceptable cost. Future offerings of debt and equity may not be available to us or may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We expect to continue to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of equity and debt securities in the future, which would include classes of preferred stock, common stock and senior or subordinated notes. All debt securities and other borrowings, as well as all classes of preferred stock, will be senior to our common stock in a liquidation of our company. Additional equity offerings could dilute our stockholders’ equity, reduce the market price of shares of our common stock, or be of preferred stock having a distribution preference that may limit our ability to make distributions on our common stock. Market conditions could cause us to seek sources of potentially less attractive capital. Our ability to estimate the amount, timing or nature of additional offerings is limited as these factors will depend upon market conditions and other factors. 25 The concentration of our company’s common stock could have an adverse impact on the value of your investment. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 48.1% of our common stock was owned by eight different institutional investors (based on SEC filings made by these investors). This concentration of ownership could have an adverse impact on the value of your investment, including as a result of the following: ·Trading volume in our stock may be limited, which will reduce the liquidity of your investment. ·The sale of a significant number of our shares in the open market by a significant stockholder or otherwise could cause our stock price to decline. ·Although none of these investors on its own controls a majority of our common stock, these owners could determine to act together and given their significant concentration may be able to take actions that are not in your best interest. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and may require us to incur debt or sell assets to make such distributions. To maintain our status as a REIT, we must distribute annually at least 90% of our taxable income. To the extent we satisfy this requirement but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax and may be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on our undistributed taxable income. We generally intend to distribute each year all or substantially all of our taxable income so as to comply with the REIT requirements and to avoid federal income tax and nondeductible excise tax. From time to time, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income, for example, if we are required to use cash income we receive from our assets to make principal payments on our indebtedness or due to timing differences in when we record income for tax purposes. As a result of the foregoing, we may be required to take one or more of the following steps in order to comply with the REIT distribution requirements and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax: ·sell assets in adverse market conditions; ·borrow on unfavorable terms; ·distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future investments, capital expenditures or repayment of debt; ·distribute shares of our common stock rather than cash; or ·utilize cash on hand to fund distributions. Thus, compliance with the REIT distribution requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. The federal income tax laws governing REITs are complex, and our failure to qualify as a REIT under the federal tax laws will result in adverse tax consequences. We intend to continue to operate in a manner that will allow us to qualify as a REIT under the federal income tax laws. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex, however, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in qualifying as a REIT. At any time, new laws, interpretations, or court decisions may change the federal tax laws or the federal income tax consequences of our qualification as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income. Our taxable income would be determined without deducting any distributions to our stockholders. We might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay any such tax. If we cease to qualify as a REIT, we no longer would be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders. Unless the federal income tax laws excused our failure to qualify as a REIT, we could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year after the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT. Our ownership limitations may restrict or prevent you from engaging in certain transfers of our stock. In order to maintain our REIT qualification, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the federal income tax laws to include various kinds of entities) during the last half of any taxable year. “Individuals” for this purpose include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts, and some charitable trusts. In order to preserve our REIT qualification, our charter generally prohibits any person from directly or indirectly owning more than 9.9% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of any class or series of the outstanding shares of our capital stock. 26 If anyone transfers shares in a way that would violate our ownership limits, or prevent us from continuing to qualify as a REIT under the federal income tax laws, we will consider the transfer to be null and void from the outset and the intended transferee of those shares will be deemed never to have owned the shares or those shares instead will be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary and will be either redeemed by us or sold to a person whose ownership of the shares will not violate our ownership limits. Anyone who acquires shares in violation of our ownership limits or the other restrictions on transfer in our charter bears the risk of suffering a financial loss when the shares are redeemed or sold if the market price of our stock falls between the date of purchase and the date of redemption or sale. Provisions of our charter and Maryland law may limit the ability of a third-party to acquire control of our company. Our charter contains restrictions on stock ownership and transfer. As described above, our charter contains stock ownership limits. These limits may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control of our company that might involve a premium price for stock of our company or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our Board of Directors may issue additional stock without stockholder approval. Our charter authorizes our Board of Directors to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock we have authority to issue, without any action by the stockholders. Issuances of additional shares of stock may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control of our company that might involve a premium price for stock of our company or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Other provisions of our charter and bylaws may delay or prevent a transaction or change of control. Our charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control of our company that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. For example, our charter and bylaws provide that: a two-thirds vote of stockholders is required to remove a director, vacancies on our Board of Directors may only be filled by the remaining directors (or, if no directors remain, by the stockholders), the number of directors may be fixed only by the directors, our bylaws may only be amended by our directors and a majority of shares is required to call a special stockholders meeting. Increased market interest rates may reduce the value of our stock. We believe that investors consider the dividend distribution rate on shares of REIT stock, expressed as a percentage of the market price of the shares, relative to market interest rates as an important factor in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of REIT stock. If market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of REIT stock may expect a higher dividend distribution rate. Higher interest rates would also likely increase our borrowing costs and might decrease cash available for distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of stock in our company to decline. The market price of our stock may vary substantially. Various factors can affect the market price of our stock including the following: ·actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations; ·the extent of investor interest in our company, real estate generally or commercial real estate specifically; ·the reputation of REITs generally and the attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income securities; ·changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; ·fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; and ·announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances. We depend on our key personnel. We depend on the efforts and expertise of our senior management team. There is no guarantee that any member of our senior management team will remain employed with our company. If any member of our senior management team were to die, become disabled or otherwise leave our employ, we may not be able to replace him with a person of equal skill, ability and industry expertise. 27 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 