Item 1A. Risk Factors The current economic environment in the U.S. and globally could affect our future operating results. Through the end of 2008, the current economic environment had some impact on our business, reflected primarily in longer sales cycles and higher customer disconnections mostly driven by our mortgage-related customer base, very small customers and carriers that dampened our revenue growth. If current conditions persist or worsen, there is risk that customer disconnections may accelerate, bad debt could increase, pricing pressure could increase and new sales may decline or be delayed due to decreased demand for our services, customer cash flow constraints, customer credit deteriorations and other factors. Our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if there were to be a material adverse change in any of these factors. The worsening economy could also amplify the effect on our results of normal fluctuations in our revenue, margins and cash flows, the timing of sales and installations, seasonality in usage-based services, customer disputes and dispute resolutions and re-pricing of services upon contract renewals. In addition, the worsening economy could also impact key vendors who supply critical equipment and software or other goods and services that we rely upon in the provision of our services. There is no assurance that we could replace key products or services with alternate providers on a timely basis if our key vendors face a financial crisis. We may be unable to sustain our revenue and cash flow growth despite the implementation of several initiatives designed to do so. We must grow our business and revenue in order to generate sufficient cash flow that, together with funds available under our credit facility, will be sufficient to fund our capital expenditures and our debt service requirements. We have pursued several growth initiatives, including: • Increasing network investments in existing markets to expand our network reach; • Launching new products and services, especially products and services that support customers’ data and IP initiatives; • Customer care initiatives targeted at customer retention activities; • Increasing our network reach through acquisitions; and • Sales force segmentation and expansion. Our ability to manage this expansion depends on many factors, including our ability to: • Attract new customers and sell new services to existing customers; • Acquire and install transmission facilities and related equipment at reasonable costs; • Employ new technologies; • Obtain required permits and rights-of-way; 18 Table of Contents • Enhance our financial, operating, and information systems to effectively manage our growth; • Accurately predict and manage the cost and timing of our capital expenditure programs; and • Remain competitive against larger, well-funded incumbent carriers. There is no assurance that our growth initiatives will continue to result in an improvement in our financial position or our results of operations. We have historically incurred net losses even during periods of increasing revenue. Although we had net income in 2008, certain factors could cause losses including, among others, economic conditions, industry consolidations, decreased demand, customers disconnecting services, regulatory and contractual rate reductions, revenue disputes, and changes in accounting standards (see Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —New Accounting Pronouncements”). We may be adversely impacted by deterioration in the financial condition of financial institutions or mutual funds that hold our investments. Our cash and cash equivalents are held in financial institutions and money market mutual funds. We are exposed to risks resulting from deterioration in the financial condition of financial institutions holding our cash deposits, decisions of the investment managers of the money market funds and defaults in securities underlying the funds. We actively monitor the depository institutions and the performance of the mutual funds that hold our cash and cash equivalents. Since the beginning of the current financial downturn, we have prioritized safety over investment return in choosing the investment vehicles for cash and cash equivalents and diversified these investments to the extent practical to minimize our exposure to any one mutual fund or financial institution. We may change the nature of our investments as market conditions change. Our daily cash sweeps are managed through a banking institution that we believe is not presently at risk of failure. Balances in our accounts with financial institutions in the U.S. may exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limit when it is impractical to spread these amounts over multiple institutions. Although we have prioritized the safety of our cash and cash equivalents, we cannot assure that access to our cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by additional and yet unforeseeable adverse conditions in the financial markets. While we monitor and adjust the cash balances in our accounts as appropriate, our ability to access these cash balances could be impacted if the financial institutions fail, if there are defaults in the securities that are held in money market funds, if the investment managers of the mutual funds fail, or there are other unforeseen adverse conditions in the financial markets. In 2008, we recorded impairment charges of $7.8 million on commercial paper investments with exposure to sub-prime mortgages that are past their maturity dates. The carrying value of these securities after recognition of the impairment is $3.0 million at December 31, 2008. Any additional impairment charges would have a negative impact on our earnings. Several customers account for a significant portion of our revenue, and some of our customers’ purchases may not continue due to customer consolidations, financial difficulties or other factors. We have substantial business relationships with a few large customers, especially other carriers. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 23% of our total revenue. The highly competitive environment in the long haul carrier sector, including interexchange carriers, has challenged the financial condition and growth prospects of some of our carrier customers and could lead to further reductions in our revenue in the future. Our service agreements with customers that have already satisfied their initial terms are subject to termination on short notice and do not require the customer to maintain the services at current levels. After expiration of their current term agreements, customers may not continue to purchase the same services or level of services. Increasing consolidation in the telecommunications industry has occurred in recent years, and if any of our customers are acquired we may lose a significant portion of their business. SBC Communications, Inc.’s merger with AT&T Corp. (now AT&T Inc.) and subsequent acquisition of BellSouth Corp. has and may continue 19 Table of Contents to result in the surviving company buying less local transport service from us in SBC’s and BellSouth Corp.’s service areas in the long run. Revenue from AT&T Inc. represented 6% and 8% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We continue to experience customer and service disconnects in the normal course of business primarily associated with industry consolidation, customer network optimization, cost cutting, business contractions, customer financial difficulties, the impact of the economic downturn, discontinuance of certain acquired products or price competition from other providers. Monthly revenue loss from disconnects averaged 1.2%, 1.1%, and 1.2% of monthly revenue in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. We have experienced a concentration of churn from the acquired customer base that buys less complex services, especially smaller customers, as well as mortgage related businesses and carriers over the past year. We believe that some of the higher churn in 2008 may be the result of the economic downturn. While we expect that some customers will continue to disconnect services due to the reasons mentioned above, we cannot predict the total impact on revenue from these disconnects or the timing of such disconnects. Replacing this revenue with new revenue from other carrier customers or with enterprise customer revenue may be difficult. Among other factors, individual enterprise customers tend to place smaller service orders than some of our larger carrier customers. In addition, pricing pressure on some of our products, such as integrated service bundles for small customers, high capacity Internet access, and inter-city and POP to POP dedicated services may challenge our ability to grow our revenue. Our substantial existing debt and debt service requirements could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations under our debt. As of December 31, 2008, our total long term debt and capital lease obligations were approximately $1.4 billion. Our level of debt may affect our operations and our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness. Subject to certain covenants in our credit agreement and the indentures for our outstanding senior notes, we may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness could, for example: • Limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other corporate purposes; • Make us more vulnerable to the current and future economic downturns or other adverse developments than less leveraged competitors; and • Decrease our ability to withstand competitive pressures. Our revolving credit facility and Term Loan B and the indenture relating to our senior notes contain restrictive covenants that may limit our flexibility, and breach of those covenants may cause us to be in default under those agreements. The credit agreement for our revolving credit facility and Term Loan B (“Term Loan”), and the indenture relating to our senior notes limit, and in some circumstances prohibit, our ability to, among other things: • Incur additional debt; • Pay dividends; • Make capital expenditures, investments or other restricted payments; • Engage in sale-leaseback transactions; • Engage in transactions with stockholders and affiliates; • Guarantee debts; • Create liens; 20 Table of Contents • Sell assets; • Issue or sell capital stock of subsidiaries; and • Engage in mergers and acquisitions. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand the current or future downturns in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. In addition, if we do not comply with these covenants and financial covenants in our credit agreement that require us to maintain certain minimum financial ratios, the indebtedness outstanding under our credit agreement, and by reason of cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions, our senior notes and any other outstanding indebtedness we may then have, could become immediately due and payable. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the credit agreement could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation proceeding or proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the lenders under our credit agreement were to accelerate the repayment of outstanding borrowings, we might not have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness. In addition, the lenders under our revolving credit facility could refuse to lend funds if we are not in compliance with our financial covenants, such as leverage and interest coverage ratios that are primarily derived from EBITDA (see note 5 to Item 6. “Selected Financial Data”) and debt levels. A lack of revenue growth or an inability to control costs could negatively impact our EBITDA margins and cause our failure to meet the minimum required ratios. We could fail to comply with the covenants in the future due to many factors, including losses of revenue due to customer disconnects or other factors or reduction in margins due to pricing pressures or rising costs or the inability to successfully integrate our acquired operations. Even if we meet the conditions for borrowing under the revolving credit facility, we may be unable to draw upon the entire commitment if any of our lenders are unable to perform their obligations to advance funds due to their own financial difficulties. We will require substantial capital to expand our operations and may not be able to obtain additional financing due to recent and possible future disruptions in the financial markets. The development and expansion of our networks requires substantial capital investment. If this capital is not available when needed, our business will be adversely affected. Our 2008 capital expenditures were $276.9 million, including expenditures for integration and branding, and our estimate of our 2009 capital expenditures is $250 million to $275 million. We also expect to have substantial capital expenditures thereafter. Based on current assumptions, we expect to generate sufficient cash from operations along with available cash on hand, including cash equivalents, investments and borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility to provide sufficient funds to meet our expected capital expenditure and liquidity needs to operate our business and service our debt for the foreseeable future. However, we may be required to seek financing in addition to our wholly-owned subsidiary’s unused $80 million senior secured revolving credit facility if: • Our business plans and cost estimates are inaccurate; • We are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, fund our capital expenditures and finance our business operations; • We decide to significantly accelerate the expansion of our business and existing networks; or • We wish to consummate acquisitions or joint ventures or other strategic transactions that require incremental capital. Widely-reported disruptions in the commercial credit market have resulted in a tightening of credit markets worldwide, making it difficult and costly to obtain new lines of credit and access the equity markets. It is impossible to predict when the global credit markets will improve or when the credit contraction will stop. As a result, we may be unable to obtain additional financing, the terms offered may place significant limits on our financial and operating flexibility, or may not be acceptable to us. In the current credit environment any 21 Table of Contents additional financing we might seek would likely be on rates and terms significantly less favorable than those contained in our current Term Loan or revolving credit facility. Other risks, such as a rating downgrade could further impact our potential access to financing sources. The failure to raise sufficient funds if needed and on reasonable terms may require us to modify or significantly curtail our business plan. This could have a material adverse impact on our growth, ability to compete, and ability to service our debt. We may complete a significant business combination or other transaction that could increase our shares outstanding, and may result in a change in control, and increase our debt. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other arrangements that would extend our geographic markets, expand our services, enlarge the capacity of our networks or increase the types of services provided through our networks. If we enter into a definitive agreement with respect to any acquisition, joint venture or other arrangement, we may require additional financing that could result in an increase in our debt, result in a change of control, increase the number of outstanding shares, or all of these effects. A substantial transaction may require the consent of our lenders. There can be no assurance that we will enter into any transaction or, if we do, on what terms. In addition, the success of any significant acquisition or business combination is dependent, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate the acquired business into ours, which also carries substantial risks. Our ability to use net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards to reduce future tax payments could be negatively impacted if there is an “ownership change” as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and our Section 382 stockholder rights plan, which is intended to help preserve our NOLs, may not be effective or may have unintended negative effects. We have substantial NOLs for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and under the Internal Revenue Code, we may “carry forward” these NOLs, in certain circumstances to offset any current and future taxable income and thus reduce our federal income tax liability, subject to certain requirements and restrictions. If we experience an “ownership change,” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and related Treasury regulations at a time when our market capitalization is below a certain level, our ability to use the NOLs could be substantially limited. This limit could impact the timing of the usage of the NOLs, thus accelerating cash tax payments and/or causing NOLs to expire prior to their use, which consequently could affect the ultimate realization of that asset. In order to protect stockholder value from a limitation on our ability to use our NOLs, we recently adopted a Section 382 stockholder rights plan (“Rights Plan”). The Rights Plan is generally designed to deter acquisitions of our common stock if such acquisition would result in a stockholder becoming a greater than 4.9% stockholder or increase the percentage ownership of our stock by greater than 0.5% that is owned by an existing 4.9% or greater stockholder by diluting the ownership interest of a stockholder whose ownership after the adoption of the Rights Plan exceeds those thresholds, unless an exemption is obtained from our Board of Directors by that stockholder. Although the Rights Plan is intended to reduce the likelihood of an ownership change that could adversely affect us, we cannot assure that it would prevent all transfers that could result in such an ownership change. In particular, it would not protect against ownership changes that may have occurred prior to the implementation of the Rights Plan that we are not aware of due to delays in beneficial ownership reporting by stockholders or against ownership changes resulting from sales by certain greater than 5% stockholders that may trigger limitations on our use of NOLs under Section 382. Because the Rights Plan may restrict a stockholder’s ability to acquire our stock, the liquidity and market value of our stock might be affected. The Rights Plan will terminate upon the earliest of (1) our Board of Directors’ determination that the Rights Plan is no longer needed for the preservation of NOLs due to the implementation of legislative changes, or any other reason; (2) January 20, 2010, if stockholder approval of the Rights Plan is not obtained by that date; (3) January 20, 2012 if stockholder approval is obtained or (4) certain other events described in the Rights Plan, including our Board of Directors’ determination that termination is in our best interest. 22 Table of Contents We have experienced reductions in switched access and reciprocal compensation revenue as a result of regulatory rate reform, and we may experience further such reductions in the future. Over the past several years FCC and state regulations have reduced our switched access revenue as well as our reciprocal compensation revenue. The FCC has been considering proposals for an integrated intercarrier compensation regime under which all traffic exchanged between carriers would be subject to a unified rate. Such changes could materially reduce our switched access revenue from other carriers, but may create an opportunity for us to recover some, but not all, of that lost revenue directly from end users. We cannot predict the outcome of pending FCC rule makings related to inter-carrier compensation. Switched access and reciprocal compensation together have been declining over time and represented 5%, 4% and 3% of our 2006, 2007 and 2008 revenue, respectively. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compensate for the reduction in intercarrier compensation revenue with other revenue sources or increased volume. We may be adversely affected by changes in the regulation of special access services. We provide special access services in competition with ILECs, and we also purchase special access services from ILECs to extend the reach of our network. A significant change in the regulations governing special access services could result in either significant reductions in the special access prices charged by our ILEC competitors or in the elimination of regulations that increase the likelihood that ILECs will sell us special access on reasonable terms and conditions. In January 2005, the FCC released a notice of proposed rulemaking in which it considers the adoption of new special access pricing regulations that could eventually result in reductions in ILEC special access prices or constraints on the degree of pricing flexibility ILECs will continue to have. We have advocated that the FCC should modify its special access pricing flexibility rules to return these services to price-cap regulation to protect against unreasonable price increases. We do not know when or if the FCC will act upon special access regulation. In an order approving the Verizon/MCI mergers, the FCC conditioned its approval upon the combined company not increasing its rates for special access services for a period of 30 months ending July 2008, which provided us with a period of price stability. The FCC’s order that approved the merger of BellSouth Corporation into AT&T included a number of conditions that provide us with rate stability and modest cost savings for special access and UNEs for 42 to 48 months ending mid to late 2010, and provide a framework for a more manageable process for renegotiating our special access and interconnection contracts when they expire over the next few years. We cannot predict whether and the extent to which the special access pricing of these carriers will increase after the expiration of these merger conditions. If the prices that we must pay for special access services from these carriers increase materially, our margins could be adversely affected. The ILECs have filed numerous petitions for forbearance from regulation of their broadband special access services, including Ethernet services offered as special access. In March 2006, the FCC allowed a Verizon forbearance petition seeking deregulation of its broadband services to be granted by operation of law and in October 2007 granted key portions of an AT&T petition to remove regulation of broadband services sold to business customers. Similar rulings were granted to several smaller ILECs with respect to specific markets. As a result, the Ethernet and OC-n high capacity data services of these carriers are no longer regulated. We and several of our competitors have appealed the default grant of the Verizon petition and the grant of the AT&T petition because we would like to have the opportunity to obtain broadband special access services on a reasonable basis to reach certain customers that are not on our network. These FCC actions did not impact the availability of the tariffed TDM special access circuits that we use for off-net building access. We expect that the ILECs will continue to advocate deregulation of all forms of special access services, and we cannot predict the outcome of the FCC’s proceedings in this regard or the likelihood of success of legislative proposals regarding deregulation. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to obtain special access services at reasonable rates, on a timely basis or that the quality of service we receive will be acceptable. In the event that we experience difficulties in obtaining high-quality, reliable, and reasonably priced service from the ILECs, the attractiveness of certain of our services to our customers could be impaired. 23 Table of Contents The market for our services is highly competitive, and many of our competitors have significant advantages that may adversely affect our ability to compete with them. We operate in an increasingly competitive environment and some companies may have competitive advantages over us. Most ILECs offer substantially the same services as we offer, in some cases at higher prices and in some cases at lower prices. ILECs benefit from: • Long-standing relationships with their customers; • Significantly greater financial and technical resources; • Broader network coverage; • The ability to subsidize local services with revenue from unrelated businesses; and • Recent regulatory decisions that decrease regulatory oversight of ILECs. Consolidations involving ILECs, CLECs and others may result in fewer, but much larger competitors. We also face competition from other CLECs, cable television companies and others. Our revenue and margins may also be reduced from price cutting by other telecommunications service providers that may pressure our pricing or require us to adjust prices for existing services upon contract renewals. In some of the markets in which we operate we may experience intense competition for particular customers, which could adversely affect our future revenue and margins. We depend on key personnel for our current and future performance. Our current and future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel. The loss or unavailability to us of members of our senior management team or key employees could significantly harm us. We cannot assure you that we would be able to locate or employ qualified replacements on acceptable terms for senior management or key employees if their services are no longer available. We may be required to record impairment charges in the future. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP, we are required to review the carrying amounts of our assets, including goodwill, to determine whether current events or circumstances warrant adjustments to those amounts. These determinations are based in part on our judgments regarding the cash flow potential of various assets, and involve projections that are inherently subject to change based on future events. If we conclude in the future that the cash flow potential of any of our assets, including those acquired in the Xspedius transaction, is significantly less than we believed at the time of purchase, and that conclusion is based on a long-term rather than short-term trend, we may need to record an impairment charge. Terrorism or other business disruptions could affect our future operating results. Our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected in the event of a catastrophic event such as a terrorist attack on the United States, or a major earthquake, fire, hurricane or similar event that affects our central offices, corporate headquarters, network operations center or other facilities. Although we have implemented measures that are designed to mitigate the effects of a catastrophic event, we cannot predict the impact of such events. We depend on third party vendors for information systems. We have entered into agreements with vendors that provide for the development and operation of information technology systems such as billing systems. The failure of those vendors to perform their services in a timely and effective manner at acceptable costs could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to monitor costs, bill customers, provision customer orders, and achieve operating efficiencies. 24 Table of Contents If we do not adapt to rapid changes in the telecommunications industry, we could lose customers or market share. The telecommunications industry continues to experience rapid and significant changes in technologies and architectures to deliver new services to customers. We expect that trend to continue into the foreseeable future. Additionally, we expect that these new technologies will enable new applications that will facilitate new services both in the network as well as at customers’ premises. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate or adapt to these changes and integrate them into the infrastructure and operations of our business, in order to offer on a timely basis a service that meets customer needs and demands. Our failure to obtain and integrate new technologies and applications could impact the breadth of our product portfolio resulting in product gaps, a less differentiated product suite and a less compelling offer to customers, as well as having a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must obtain access to rights-of-way and pole attachments on reasonable terms and conditions. The development, expansion, and maintenance of our networks depend on, among other things, our ability to obtain rights-of-way and pole attachments as well as certain governmental authorizations and permits. In order to compete effectively, we must obtain such rights, authorizations and permits in a timely manner, at reasonable costs, and on satisfactory terms and conditions. Any increase in the difficulty or cost of obtaining these rights, authorizations or permits could adversely affect us, particularly in areas where we must compete with companies that already have the necessary permits and access. In certain cities and municipalities where we provide network services over our own fiber optic facilities, we pay license or franchise fees for the use of public rights-of-way. The 1996 Act permits municipalities to charge these fees only if they are competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory, but certain municipalities may not conform their practices to the requirements of the 1996 Act in a timely manner or without legal challenge. We also face the risks that other cities may start imposing fees, fees will be increased, or franchises will not be renewed. Some of our franchise agreements also provide for increases or renegotiation of fees at certain intervals. Increases in fees may have a negative impact on our financial condition. If any of our existing franchise or license agreements for a particular metropolitan area are terminated prior to their expiration date and we are forced to remove our fiber optic cables from the streets or abandon our network in place, even with compensation, such termination could have a material adverse effect on us. We currently license fiber optic capacity from the Cable Operations in 23 of our markets, and we must reimburse the Cable Operations for pole attachment fees associated with the fiber optic capacity we license from them. The Cable Operations may terminate our Capacity License Agreements before expiration upon: • A material impairment of the licensor’s ability to provide the license by law; • A material breach of the capacity license by us; or • The institution of any proceedings to impose any public utility or common carrier status or obligations on the licensor, or any other proceedings challenging the licensor’s operating authority as a result of the services provided to us under the capacity license. If the Capacity License Agreements are terminated prior to their scheduled expiration in 2028 or are not renewed, we may need to build, lease, or otherwise obtain fiber optic capacity. The terms of those arrangements may be materially less favorable to us than the terms of our existing capacity license. In addition, the Capacity License Agreements prohibit us from offering residential services or content services utilizing the licensed capacity. Our ability to offer residential and content services is limited by our Capacity License Agreements. Our Capacity License Agreements with the Cable Operations prohibit us from using facilities licensed under those agreements until 2028 to (i) engage in the business of providing, offering, packaging, marketing, 25 Table of Contents promoting, or branding (alone or jointly with or as an agent for other parties) any residential services, or (ii) produce or otherwise provide entertainment, information, or other content services. Although we do not believe that these restrictions will materially affect our business and operations in the immediate future, we cannot predict the effect of such restrictions in the rapidly changing telecommunications industry. We do not currently have plans to offer residential or content services in our service areas not covered by the Capacity License Agreements. We discontinued the use of the “Time Warner” name, which may adversely affect us. We amended our Restated Certificate of Incorporation to change our corporate name from Time Warner Telecom Inc. to tw telecom inc. on March 12, 2008. Our stockholders approved the name change by written consent on September 26, 2006. On July 1, 2008 we began using tw telecom inc. as our name and tw telecom as our brand. Although we believe that separate branding from Time Warner may be beneficial to our business and may, for example, eliminate previous confusion in markets also served by Time Warner Cable, the impact of a name change away from the well-established “Time Warner” name is uncertain and could be adverse. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 