ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS This annual report on Form 10-K, including this Management's Discussion and Analysis, contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause our future business, financial condition or results of operations to differ materially from our historical results or currently anticipated results, including those set forth below. Investors should carefully review the information contained in this Section IA. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS COMPETITION WITHIN THE WIRELESS CONNECTIVITY PRODUCTS INDUSTRIES IS INTENSE AND IS EXPECTED TO INCREASE SIGNIFICANTLY. OUR FAILURE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY COULD MATERIALLY HARM OUR PROSPECTS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS. The wireless products connectivity markets are intensely competitive. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or potential competitors. We expect competition to increase in the future as current competitors enhance their product offerings, new suppliers enter the wireless connectivity products markets, new communication technologies are introduced and additional networks are deployed. Our client software competes with software developed internally by Network Interface Card (NIC) vendors, service providers for 802.11 networks, and with software developed by large systems integrators. Increased competition could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results through pricing pressures, the loss of market share and other factors. The antenna market is highly fragmented and is served by many local product providers. We may not be able to displace established competitors from their customer base with our products. We may not achieve the design wins necessary to participate in WCDMA network deployments where our products compete. Where we have design wins, we may not be the sole source supplier or may receive only a small portion of the business from each customer. Many of our present and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of their products. These competitors may succeed in establishing technology standards or strategic alliances in the connectivity products markets, obtain more rapid market acceptance for their products, or otherwise gain a competitive advantage. We can offer no assurance that we will succeed in developing products or technologies that are more effective than those developed by our competitors. We can offer no assurance that we will be 5 able to compete successfully against existing and new competitors as the connectivity wireless markets evolve and the level of competition increases. OUR ABILITY TO GROW OUR BUSINESS MAY BE THREATENED IF THE DEMAND FOR WIRELESS DATA SERVICES DOES NOT CONTINUE TO GROW. Our ability to compete successfully in the wireless market is dependent on the continued trend toward wireless telecommunications and data communications services. If the rate of growth slows and service providers reduce their capital investments in wireless infrastructure or fail to expand into new geographic markets, our revenue may decline. Wireless data solutions are relatively unproven in the marketplace and some of the wireless technologies have only been commercially introduced in the last few years. We began offering wireless products in the second quarter of fiscal 2002. If wireless data access technology turns out to be unsuitable for widespread commercial deployment, we may not be able to generate enough sales to achieve and grow our business. We have listed below some of the factors that we believe are key to the success or failure of wireless access technology: - reliability and security of wireless access technology and the perception by end-users of its reliability and security, - capacity to handle growing demands for faster transmission of increasing amounts of data, voice and video, - the availability of sufficient frequencies for network service providers to deploy products at commercially reasonable rates, - cost-effectiveness and performance compared to wire line or other high speed access solutions, whose prices and performance continue to improve, - suitability for a sufficient number of geographic regions, and - availability of sufficient site locations for wireless access. The factors listed above influence our customers' purchase decisions when selecting wireless versus other high-speed data access technology. Future legislation, legal decisions and regulation relating to the wireless telecommunications industry may slow or delay the deployment of wireless networks. Wireless access solutions compete with other high-speed access solutions such as digital subscriber lines, cable modem technology, fiber optic cable and other high-speed wire line and satellite technologies. If the market for our wireless solutions fails to develop or develops more slowly than we expect due to this competition, our sales opportunities will be harmed. Many of these alternative technologies can take advantage of existing installed infrastructure and are generally perceived to be reliable and secure. As a result, they have already achieved significantly greater market acceptance and penetration than wireless data access technologies. Moreover, current wireless data access technologies have inherent technical limitations that may inhibit their widespread adoption in many areas. We expect wireless data access technologies to face increasing competitive pressures from both current and future alternative technologies. In light of these factors, many service providers may be reluctant to invest heavily in wireless data access solutions, including Wi-Fi. If service providers do not continue to establish Wi-Fi "hot spots," we may not be able to generate sales for our Wi-Fi products and our revenue may decline. OUR WIRELESS BUSINESS IS DEPENDENT UPON THE CONTINUED GROWTH OF EVOLVING TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND INTERNET INDUSTRIES. Our future success is dependent upon the continued growth of the data communications and wireless industries, particularly with regard to Internet usage. The global data communications and Internet industries are relatively new and evolving rapidly and it is difficult to predict potential growth rates or future trends in technology development for this industry. The deregulation, privatization and economic globalization of the worldwide telecommunications market that have resulted in increased competition and escalating demand for 6 new technologies and services may not continue in a manner favorable to us or our business strategies. In addition, the growth in demand for wireless and Internet services, and the resulting need for high speed or enhanced data communications products and wireless systems, may not continue at its current rate or at all. OUR FUTURE SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO DEVELOP AND SUCCESSFULLY INTRODUCE NEW AND ENHANCED PRODUCTS FOR THE WIRELESS MARKET, WHICH MEET THE NEEDS OF CUSTOMERS. Our revenue depends on our ability to anticipate our existing and prospective customers' needs and develop products that address those needs. Our future success will depend on our ability to introduce new products for the wireless market, anticipate improvements and enhancements in wireless technology and wireless standards, and to develop products that are competitive in the rapidly changing wireless industry. Introduction of new products and product enhancements will require coordination of our efforts with those of our customers, suppliers, and manufacturers to rapidly achieve volume production. If we fail to coordinate these efforts, develop product enhancements or introduce new products that meet the needs of our customers as scheduled, our operating results will be materially and adversely affected and our business and prospects will be harmed. We cannot assure you that product introductions will meet the anticipated release schedules or that our wireless products will be competitive in the market. Furthermore, given the emerging nature of the wireless market, there can be no assurance our products and technology will not be rendered obsolete by alternative or competing technologies. WE MAY EXPERIENCE INTEGRATION OR OTHER PROBLEMS WITH POTENTIAL ACQUISITIONS, WHICH COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS OR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. NEW ACQUISITIONS COULD DILUTE THE INTERESTS OF EXISTING STOCKHOLDERS, AND THE ANNOUNCEMENT OF NEW ACQUISITIONS COULD RESULT IN A DECLINE IN THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. We may in the future make acquisitions of, or large investments in, businesses that offer products, services, and technologies that we believe would complement our products or services, including wireless products and technology. We may also make acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses that we believe could expand our distribution channels. Even if we were to announce an acquisition, we may not be able to complete it. Additionally, any future acquisition or substantial investment would present numerous risks, including: - difficulty in integrating the technology, operations, internal accounting controls or work force of the acquired business with our existing business, - disruption of our on-going business, - difficulty in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transaction, - difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, - dealing with tax, employment, logistics, and other related issues unique to international organizations and assets we acquire, - possible impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of integration of new businesses and management personnel, and - impairment of assets related to resulting goodwill, and reductions in our future operating results from amortization of intangible assets. We expect that future acquisitions could provide for consideration to be paid in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and our common stock. If consideration for a transaction is paid in common stock, this would further dilute our existing stockholders. 7 WE MAY NEVER ACHIEVE THE ANTICIPATED BENEFITS FROM OUR RECENT ACQUISITION OF SIGMA WIRELESS TECHNOLOGIES. We acquired Sigma Wireless Technologies in July 2005 as part of our continuing efforts to expand our wireless line and product offerings. We may experience difficulties in achieving the anticipated benefits of this acquisition. This acquisition represents an expansion for our Antenna Products Group. Potential risks with this acquisition include: - the loss or decrease in orders of one or more of the major customers, - delay in 3G network deployments utilizing acquired products, - decrease in demand for wireless devices that use the acquired products, - lack of acceptance for electrical tilt antenna products in general - the ability to realize gross and operating margins necessary to achieve targeted results - difficulties in assimilation of related personnel, operations, technologies or products, and - challenges in integrating internal accounting and financial controls for financial reporting purposes. OUR GROSS PROFIT MAY VARY BASED ON THE MIX OF SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS AND LICENSES OF OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, AND THESE VARIATIONS MAY CAUSE OUR NET INCOME TO DECLINE. We derive a portion of our sales from our software-based connectivity products. Due in part to the competitive pricing pressures that affect our products and in part to increasing component and manufacturing costs, we expect gross profit from both existing and future products to decrease over time. In addition, licensing revenues from our intellectual property historically have provided higher margins than our product sales. Changes in the mix of products sold and the percentage of our sales in any quarter attributable to products as compared to licensing revenues could cause our quarterly results to vary and could result in a decrease in gross profit and net income. ANY DELAYS IN OUR NORMALLY LENGTHY SALES CYCLES COULD RESULT IN CUSTOMERS CANCELING PURCHASES OF OUR PRODUCTS. Sales cycles for our products with major customers are lengthy, often lasting nine months or longer. In addition, it can take an additional nine months or more before a customer commences volume production of equipment that incorporates our products. Sales cycles with our major customers are lengthy for a number of reasons, including: - our original equipment manufacturer customers and carriers usually complete a lengthy technical evaluation of our products, over which we have no control, before placing a purchase order, - the commercial introduction of our products by an original equipment manufacturer and carriers is typically limited during the initial release to evaluate product performance, and - the development and commercial introduction of products incorporating new technologies frequently are delayed. A significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed and is based in large part on our forecasts of volume and timing of orders. The lengthy sales cycles make forecasting the volume and timing of product orders difficult. In addition, the delays inherent in lengthy sales cycles raise additional risks of customer decisions to cancel or change product phases. If customer cancellations or product changes were to occur, this could result in the loss of anticipated sales without sufficient time for us to reduce our operating expenses. 8 OUR REVENUES MAY FLUCTUATE EACH QUARTER DUE TO BOTH DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL SEASONAL TRENDS. The MSG market is in the initial market stages and has yet to display discernable revenue patterns by quarter. The APG and RFSG markets display seasonality in that the first quarter is typically the lowest revenue quarter and each successive quarter is higher. The pattern for APG and RFGS tracks with carrier capital spending plans WE RELY ON INDEPENDENT COMPANIES TO MANUFACTURE, ASSEMBLE AND TEST OUR PRODUCTS. IF THESE COMPANIES DO NOT MEET THEIR COMMITMENTS TO US, OUR ABILITY TO SELL PRODUCTS TO OUR CUSTOMERS WOULD BE IMPAIRED. We have limited manufacturing capability. For some product lines we outsource the manufacturing, assembly, and testing of printed circuit board subsystems. For other product lines, we purchase completed hardware platforms and add our proprietary software. While there is no unique capability with these suppliers, any failure by these suppliers to meet delivery commitments would cause us to delay shipments and potentially be unable to accept new orders for product. In addition, in the event that these suppliers discontinued the manufacture of materials used in our products, we would be forced to incur the time and expense of finding a new supplier or to modify our products in such a way that such materials were not necessary. Either of these alternatives could result in increased manufacturing costs and increased prices of our products. We assemble our APG products in our APG facilities located in Illinois, China, and Ireland. We may experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems at our assembly facilities, which could result in lower yields or delays of product shipments to our customers. In addition, we are having an increasing number of our APG products manufactured in China via contract manufacturers. Any disruption of our own or contract manufacturers' operations could cause us to delay product shipments, which would negatively impact our sales, competitive reputation and position. In addition, if we do not accurately forecast demand for our products, we will have excess or insufficient parts to build our product, either of which could seriously affect our operating results. IN ORDER FOR US TO OPERATE AT A PROFITABLE LEVEL AND CONTINUE TO INTRODUCE AND DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS FOR EMERGING MARKETS, WE MUST ATTRACT AND RETAIN OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND QUALIFIED TECHNICAL, SALES, SUPPORT AND OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE PERSONNEL. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our current executive officers and certain key engineering, sales, marketing, financial, technical and customer support personnel. If we lose the services of our executives or key employees, replacements could be difficult to recruit and, as a result, we may not be able to grow our business. Competition for personnel, especially qualified engineering personnel, is intense. We are particularly dependent on our ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified engineers with the requisite education, background and industry experience. As of December 31, 2005, we employed a total of 69 people in our engineering department. If we lose the services of one or more of our key engineering personnel, our ability to continue to develop products and technologies responsive to our markets may be impaired. FAILURE TO MANAGE OUR TECHNOLOGICAL AND PRODUCT GROWTH COULD STRAIN OUR MANAGEMENT, FINANCIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE RESOURCES. Our ability to successfully sell our products and implement our business plan in rapidly evolving markets requires an effective management planning process. Future product expansion efforts could be expensive and put a strain on our management by significantly increasing the scope of their responsibilities and by increasing the demands on their management abilities. To effectively manage our growth in these new technologies, we must enhance our marketing, sales, research and development areas. 9 WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO LITIGATION REGARDING INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY ASSOCIATED WITH OUR WIRELESS BUSINESS AND THIS COULD BE COSTLY TO DEFEND AND COULD PREVENT US FROM USING OR SELLING THE CHALLENGED TECHNOLOGY. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving intellectual property rights. We have from time to time in the past-received correspondence from third parties alleging that we infringe the third party's intellectual property rights. We expect potential claims to increase in the future, including with respect to our wireless business. Intellectual property claims against us, and any resulting lawsuit, may result in our incurring significant expenses and could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate what we currently believe are our proprietary rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their merits or success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and could divert management's time and attention. This could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition and prospects. Any potential intellectual property litigation against us related to our wireless business could also force us to do one or more of the following: - cease selling, incorporating or using technology, products or services that incorporate the infringed intellectual property, - obtain from the holder of the infringed intellectual property a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, or - redesign those products or services that incorporate the disputed intellectual property, which could result in substantial unanticipated development expenses. If we are subject to a successful claim of infringement related to our wireless intellectual property and we fail to develop non-infringing intellectual property or license the infringed intellectual property on acceptable terms and on a timely basis, operating results could decline and our ability to grow and sustain our wireless business could be materially and adversely affected. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects could be impaired. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our intellectual property rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of our competitors. These claims could also result in significant expense and the diversion of technical and management personnel's attention. UNDETECTED SOFTWARE ERRORS OR FAILURES FOUND IN NEW PRODUCTS MAY RESULT IN A LOSS OF CUSTOMERS OR A DELAY IN MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCTS. Our products may contain undetected software errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. To date, we have not been made aware of any significant software errors or failures in our products. However, despite testing by us and by current and potential customers, errors may be found in new products after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of customers or delay in market acceptance. OUR FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF TAX AUTHORITIES CHALLENGE US AND THE TAX CHALLENGES RESULT IN UNFAVORABLE OUTCOMES. We currently have international subsidiaries located in Japan, China, Ireland, United Kingdom, and Israel as well as international branch offices located in Hong Kong and Taiwan. The complexities resulting from operating in several different tax jurisdictions increase our exposure to worldwide tax challenges. CONDUCTING BUSINESS IN INTERNATIONAL MARKETS INVOLVES FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATE EXPOSURE THAT MAY LEAD TO REDUCED PROFITABILITY. With the recent acquisition of Sigma, we have increased risk from foreign currency exposure. Sigma's functional currency is the Euro, and Sigma conducts business in both the Euro and pounds sterling. We believe that foreign exchange exposures may lead to reduced profitability. 10 RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY OUR INDUSTRY IS CHARACTERIZED BY RAPIDLY CHANGING TECHNOLOGIES. IF WE ARE NOT SUCCESSFUL IN RESPONSE TO RAPIDLY CHANGING TECHNOLOGIES, OUR PRODUCTS MAY BECOME OBSOLETE AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY. The wireless data access business is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, short product life cycles and frequent new product introductions. To remain competitive, we have successfully introduced several new products. Both the cellular (2.5G and 3G) and Wi-Fi (802.11) spaces are rapidly changing and prone to standardization. We will continue to evaluate, develop and introduce technologically advanced products that will position us for possible growth in the wireless data access market. If we are not successful in response to rapidly changing technologies, our products may became obsolete and we may not be able to compete effectively. CHANGES IN LAWS OR REGULATIONS, IN PARTICULAR, FUTURE FCC REGULATIONS AFFECTING THE BROADBAND MARKET, INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS, OR THE COMMUNICATIONS INDUSTRY, COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO DEVELOP NEW TECHNOLOGIES OR SELL NEW PRODUCTS AND THEREFORE, REDUCE OUR PROFITABILITY. The jurisdiction of the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, extends to the entire communications industry, including our customers and their products and services that incorporate our products. Future FCC regulations affecting the broadband access services industry, our customers or our products may harm our business. For example, future FCC regulatory policies that affect the availability of data and Internet services may impede our customers' penetration into their markets or affect the prices that they are able to charge. In addition, FCC regulatory policies that affect the specifications of wireless data devices may impede certain of our customers' ability to manufacture their products profitably, which could, in turn, reduce demand for our products. Furthermore, international regulatory bodies are beginning to adopt standards for the communications industry. Although our business has not been hurt by any regulations to date, in the future, delays caused by our compliance with regulatory requirements may result in order cancellations or postponements of product purchases by our customers, which would reduce our profitability. RISKS RELATED TO OUR LICENSING PROGRAM OUR ABILITY TO SUSTAIN OR GROW OUR REVENUE FROM THE LICENSING OF OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY IS SUBJECT TO MANY RISKS, AND ANY INABILITY TO SUCCESSFULLY LICENSE OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND OPERATING RESULTS. We may not be able to sustain our revenue from the licensing of our intellectual property. In addition to our wireless product lines, we offer our intellectual property through licensing and product royalty arrangements. We have over 130 U.S. patents granted or pending addressing both essential International Telecommunications Union and non-essential technologies. In connection with our intellectual property licensing efforts, we have filed several patent infringement lawsuits and are aggressively pursuing unlicensed companies to license their unauthorized use of our intellectual property. We have pending patent infringement litigation claims with Agere and Lucent. We expect litigation to continue to be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Because of the high degree of complexity of the intellectual property at issue, the inherent uncertainties of litigation in general and the preliminary nature of these litigation matters, we cannot assure you that we will ultimately prevail or receive the judgments that we seek. We may not be able to obtain licensing agreements from these companies on terms favorable to us, if at all. In addition, we may be required to pay substantial monetary damages as a result of claims these companies have brought against us which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 11 LITIGATION EFFORTS RELATED TO OUR LICENSING PROGRAM ARE EXPECTED TO BE COSTLY AND MAY NOT ACHIEVE OUR OBJECTIVES. Litigation such as our suits with Agere and Lucent can take years to resolve and can be expensive to pursue or defend. We currently expect our intellectual property litigation costs to be within a range of $2.5 to $3.0 million in 2006, in the absence of any settlement. In addition, the allegations and claims involved in these lawsuits, even if ultimately resolved in our favor, could be time consuming to litigate and divert management attention. We may not ultimately prevail in these matters or receive the judgments that we seek. We could also face substantial monetary damages as a result of claims others bring against us. In addition, court decisions on current pending and future motions could have the effect of determining the ultimate outcome of the litigation prior to a trial on the merits, or strengthen or weaken our ability to assert claims and defenses in the future. Accordingly, an adverse judgment could seriously harm our business, financial position and operating results and cause our stock price to decline substantially. WE EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO BE SUBJECT TO LITIGATION REGARDING INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY CLAIMS RELATED TO OUR LICENSING PROGRAM WHICH COULD IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO GROW OR SUSTAIN REVENUES FROM OUR LICENSING EFFORTS. As we continue to aggressively pursue licensing arrangements with companies that are using our intellectual property without our authorization, we expect to continue to be subject to lawsuits that challenge the validity of our intellectual property or that allege that we have infringed third party intellectual property rights. Any of these claims could results in substantial damages against us and could impair our ability to grow and sustain our licensing business. This could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. As a result, at least in part, of our licensing efforts to date, we are currently subject to claims from Agere and Lucent regarding patent infringement matters of the nature described above. We have also been subject to claims from others in the past regarding similar matters. In addition, in recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving intellectual property rights. We expect these claims to increase as our intellectual property portfolio becomes larger. Intellectual property claims against us, and any resulting lawsuit, may result in our incurring significant expenses and could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate what we currently believe are our proprietary rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their merits or success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and could divert management's time and attention. OUR ABILITY TO ENFORCE OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS MAY BE LIMITED, AND ANY LIMITATION COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO SUSTAIN OR INCREASE REVENUE FROM OUR LICENSING PROGRAM. Our ability to sustain and grow revenue from the licensing of our intellectual property is dependent on our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights. Our ability to enforce these rights is subject to many challenges and may be limited. For example, one or more of our pending patents may never be issued. In addition, our patents, both issued and pending, may not prove enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Agere and Lucent have currently pending claims seeking to invalidate one or more of our patents. If a court were to invalidate one or more of our patents, this could materially and adversely affect our licensing program. Furthermore, some foreign laws, including those of various countries in Asia, do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as United States laws. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE BASED ON A NUMBER OF FACTORS, SOME OF WHICH ARE NOT IN OUR CONTROL. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile. The common stock price has fluctuated from a low of $6.70 to a high of $10.16 during 2005. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, many of which are out of our control, including: - announcements of technological innovations, - new products or services offered by us or our competitors, 12 - actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results, - outcome of ongoing intellectual property related litigations, - changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, - conditions or trends in our industry, - our announcement of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, - additions or departures of key personnel, - mergers and acquisitions, and - sales of common stock by our stockholders or us. In addition, the NASDAQ National Market, where many publicly held telecommunications companies, including PCTEL, are traded, often experiences extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of an individual company's securities, securities class action litigation often has been instituted against that company. This type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. PROVISIONS IN OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS MAY INHIBIT A CHANGE OF CONTROL OR A CHANGE OF MANAGEMENT, WHICH MAY CAUSE THE MARKET PRICE FOR OUR COMMON STOCK TO FALL AND MAY INHIBIT A TAKEOVER OR CHANGE IN OUR CONTROL THAT A STOCKHOLDER MAY CONSIDER FAVORABLE. Provisions in our charter documents could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control transaction that our stockholders may favor. These provisions could have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares, and as a result, these provisions may prevent the market price of our common stock from reflecting the effects of actual or rumored takeover attempts and may prevent stockholders from reselling their shares at or above the price at which they purchased their shares. These provisions may also prevent changes in our management that our stockholders may favor. Our charter documents do not permit stockholders to act by written consent, do not permit stockholders to call a stockholders meeting, and provide for a classified board of directors, which means stockholders can only elect, or remove, a limited number of our directors in any given year. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series. The board of directors can fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of this preferred stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be affected by, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Further, the issuance of shares of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control transaction without further action by our stockholders. As a result, the market price of our common stock may drop. UNDER REGULATIONS REQUIRED BY THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002, IF WE ARE UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY IMPLEMENT PROCESSES AND PROCEDURES TO ACHIEVE AND MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROL OVER OUR FINANCIAL REPORTING, OUR ABILITY TO PROVIDE RELIABLE AND TIMELY FINANCIAL REPORTS COULD BE HARMED. We must comply with the rules promulgated under section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires an annual management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing this assessment, and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal control. As disclosed in the Company's 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for each of the first three quarters of 2005, the Company previously reported a material weakness in internal control over the accounting for income taxes, including the determination of income taxes payable, 13 deferred income tax assets and liabilities and the related income tax provision. Specifically, the Company did not have effective controls over determining net operating loss carry backs, applicable state tax rates applied, and the tax effect of stock option exercises. In addition, the Company did not have effective controls to monitor the difference between the income tax basis and the financial reporting basis of assets and liabilities and reconcile the difference to deferred income tax assets and liabilities. The Company has made significant progress in its efforts to remediate this material weakness during 2005. This is further supported by the Company's overall positive results from its 2005 internal control compliance testing required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which was carried out by the Company in the third and fourth quarters of 2005. However, the company has not demonstrated operating effectiveness with respect to controls over the completeness and accuracy of its income tax provision and the presentation and disclosures related to income taxes in 2005. This control deficiency could result in a misstatement of the income tax provision and income tax related financial statement disclosures that would result in a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. Accordingly, management has concluded that this control deficiency constitutes a material weakness as of December 31, 2005 as discussed in "Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting" in item 9A. In order to remediate this deficiency in internal controls, the Company will continue its training and education efforts in this area so that operating effectiveness can be demonstrated over a period of time that is sufficient to support the conclusion that the material weakness has been remediated. In addition, to further enhance the controls surrounding the accounting for income taxes, the Company will continue its efforts with respect to 1) its oversight over the quarterly and annual preparation of its tax provision and related disclosures by its outside tax consultant, and 2) the need to consider additional resources to help execute its internal controls over the accounting for income taxes. Nevertheless, we cannot be certain in future periods that other control deficiencies that may constitute one or more "significant deficiencies" (as defined by the relevant auditing standards) or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, will not be identified. The occurrence of control deficiencies in our internal control, and material weaknesses in particular, adversely affect our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. While we are expending significant resources in developing the necessary documentation and testing procedures required by Section 404, we cannot be certain that the actions we are taking to improve, achieve and maintain our internal control over financial reporting will be adequate or that we will be able to implement our planned processes and procedures. If we do not complete our compliance activities under Section 404 in a timely manner, or the processes and procedures that we implement for our internal control over financial reporting are inadequate, our ability to provide reliable and timely financial reports, and consequently our business and operating results, could be harmed. This in turn could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial reports, which could cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 