Item 1A. Risk Factors RISKS RELATING TO THE CORPORATION’S BUSINESS We are operating under agreements with our regulators. We are subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve Board. We are a bank holding company and a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. As such, we are permitted to engage in a broader spectrum of activities than those permitted to bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. At this time, under the BHC Act, we may not be able to engage in new activities or acquire shares or control of other companies. In addition, we are subject to restrictions because of the Regulatory Agreements that our subsidiary FirstBank entered into with the FDIC and we entered into with the Federal Reserve, as further described below. On June 4, 2010, we announced that FirstBank agreed to the FDIC Order issued by the FDIC and OCIF, and we entered into the Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve. These Regulatory Agreements stemmed from the FDIC’s examination as of the period ended June 30, 2009 conducted during the second half of 2009. Although our regulatory capital ratios exceeded the required established minimum capital ratios for a “well-capitalized” institution as of December 31, 2013 and complied with the capital ratios required by the FDIC Order, FirstBank cannot be regarded as “well-capitalized” as of December 31, 2013 because of the FDIC Order. Under the FDIC Order, FirstBank agreed to address specific areas of concern to the FDIC and OCIF through the adoption and implementation of procedures, plans and policies designed to improve the safety and soundness of FirstBank. These actions include, among others: (1) having and retaining qualified management; (2) increased participation in the affairs of FirstBank by its Board of Directors; (3) development and implementation by FirstBank of a capital plan to attain a leverage ratio of at least 8%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 10% and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 12%; (4) adoption and implementation of strategic, liquidity and fund management, and profit and budget plans and related projects within certain timetables set forth in the FDIC Order and on an ongoing basis; (5) adoption and implementation of plans for reducing FirstBank’s positions in certain classified assets and delinquent and non-accrual loans; (6) refraining from lending to delinquent or classified borrowers already obligated to FirstBank on any extensions of credit so long as such credit remains uncollected, except where FirstBank’s failure to extend further credit to a particular borrower would be detrimental to the best interests of FirstBank, and any such additional credit is approved by FirstBank’s 25 Board of Directors, or a designated committee thereof; (7) refraining from accepting, increasing, renewing or rolling over brokered CDs without the prior written approval of the FDIC; (8) establishment of a comprehensive policy and methodology for determining the allowance for loan and lease losses and the review and revision of FirstBank’s loan policies, including the non-accrual policy; and (9) adoption and implementation of adequate and effective programs of independent loan review, appraisal compliance and an effective policy for managing FirstBank’s sensitivity to interest rate risk. The Written Agreement, which is designed to enhance our ability to act as a source of strength to FirstBank, requires that we obtain prior Federal Reserve approval before declaring or paying dividends, receiving dividends from FirstBank, making payments on subordinated debt or trust-preferred securities, incurring, increasing or guaranteeing debt (whether such debt is incurred, increased or guaranteed, directly or indirectly, by us or any of our non-banking subsidiaries) or purchasing or redeeming any capital stock. The Written Agreement also required us to submit to the Federal Reserve a capital plan and requires that we submit progress reports, comply with certain notice provisions prior to appointing new directors or senior executive officers and comply with certain payment restrictions on severance payments and indemnification restrictions. We anticipate that we will need to continue to dedicate significant resources to our efforts to comply with the Regulatory Agreements, which may increase operational costs or adversely affect the amount of time our management has to conduct our operations. If we need to continue to recognize significant reserves, we and FirstBank may not be able to continue to comply with the minimum capital requirements included in the capital plans required by the Regulatory Agreements. If we fail to comply with the Regulatory Agreements in the future, we may become subject to additional regulatory enforcement action up to and including the appointment of a conservator or receiver for FirstBank. Our high level of non-performing loans may adversely affect our future results from operations. Even though, our level of non-performing loans decreased 43% during 2013, as compared to December 31, 2012, and our third and fourth quarters of 2013 were profitable, we have $550.4 million in non-performing loans, which represents approximately 5% of our $9.7 billion loan portfolio. We may not continue to be profitable given this high level of non-performing loans. Certain funding sources may not be available to us and our funding sources may prove insufficient and/or costly to replace. FirstBank relies primarily on customer deposits, the issuance of brokered CDs, and advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank, to maintain its lending activities and to replace certain maturing liabilities. As of December 31, 2013, we had $3.48 billion in brokered deposits (including CDs and money market accounts) outstanding, representing approximately 35% of our total deposits, and a reduction of $253.4 million from the year ended December 31, 2012. Approximately $1.7 billion in brokered CDs mature over the next twelve months, and the average term to maturity of the retail brokered CDs outstanding as of December 31, 2013 was approximately 1.2 years. None of these CDs are callable at the Corporation’s option. Although FirstBank has historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances, we may not be able to replace these funds in the future if our financial condition or general market conditions were to change or the FDIC did not approve our request to issue brokered deposits, as required by the FDIC Order. The FDIC Order requires FirstBank to obtain FDIC approval prior to issuing, increasing, renewing or rolling over brokered deposits and to maintain the plan to reduce its reliance on brokered deposits. Although the FDIC has issued temporary approvals permitting FirstBank to renew and/or roll over certain amounts of brokered CDs maturing in the past and we have received approval from the FDIC to issue brokered deposits through March 31, 2014, the FDIC may not continue to issue such approvals, even if the requests are consistent with our plans to reduce reliance on brokered deposits, and, even if issued, such approvals may not be for amounts of brokered deposits sufficient for FirstBank to meet its funding needs. The use of brokered deposits has been particularly important for the funding of our operations. If we are unable to issue brokered deposits, or are unable to maintain access to our other funding sources, our results of operations and liquidity would be adversely affected. Alternate sources of funding may carry higher costs than sources currently utilized. If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources, profitability would be adversely affected. We may seek debt financing in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. Any future debt financing requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve, and the Federal Reserve may not approve such financing. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us, or if available, may not be on acceptable terms. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, our credit ratings and our credit capacity. In addition, the Bank may seek to sell loans as an additional source of liquidity. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on acceptable terms, our profitability and future prospects could be adversely affected. We depend on cash dividends from FirstBank to meet our cash obligations. As a holding company, dividends from FirstBank have provided a substantial portion of our cash flow used to service the interest payments on our trust-preferred securities and other obligations. As outlined in the Written Agreement, we cannot receive any cash dividends from FirstBank without the prior written approval of the Federal Reserve. In addition, FirstBank is limited by law in its ability to make dividend payments and other distributions to us based on its earnings and capital position. Our inability to receive approval from the Federal Reserve to receive dividends from FirstBank, or FirstBank’s failure to generate sufficient cash flow to make dividend payments to us, may adversely affect our ability to meet all projected cash needs in the ordinary course of business and may have a detrimental impact on our financial condition. 26 The Banking Act of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico requires that a minimum of 10% of FirstBank’s net income for the year be transferred to legal surplus until such surplus equals the total of paid-in-capital on common and preferred stock. Amounts transferred to the legal surplus account from the retained earnings account are not available for distribution to the Corporation without the prior consent of the OCIF. FirstBank’s net loss experienced in 2013 exhausted FirstBank’s statutory reserve fund. FirstBank cannot pay dividends to the Corporation until it can replenish the reserve fund to an amount of at least 20% of the original capital contributed. If we do not obtain Federal Reserve approval to pay interest, principal or other sums on subordinated debentures or trust-preferred securities, a default under certain obligations may occur. The Written Agreement provides that we cannot declare or pay any dividends or make any distributions of interest, principal or other sums on subordinated debentures or trust-preferred securities without prior written approval of the Federal Reserve. With respect to our $232 million of outstanding subordinated debentures, we elected to defer the interest payments that were due in March 2012, June 2012, September 2012, December 2012, March 2013, June 2013, September 2013, December 2013 and March 2014. Under the indentures, we have the right, from time to time, and without causing an event of default, to defer payments of interest on the subordinated debentures by extending the interest payment period at any time and from time to time during the term of the subordinated debentures for up to twenty consecutive quarterly periods. We may continue to elect extension periods for future quarterly interest payments if the Federal Reserve advises us that it will not approve such future quarterly interest payments. Our inability to receive approval from the Federal Reserve to make distributions of interest, principal or other sums on our trust-preferred securities and subordinated debentures could result in a default under those obligations if we need to defer such payments for longer than twenty consecutive quarterly periods. Credit quality may result in additional losses. The quality of our credits has continued to be under pressure as a result of continued recessionary conditions in the markets we serve that have led to, among other things, higher unemployment levels, much lower absorption rates for new residential construction projects and further declines in property values. Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers and counterparties and the value of the assets securing our loans or underlying our investments. When the credit quality of the customer base materially decreases or the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers changes materially, our business, financial condition, allowance levels, asset impairments, liquidity, capital and results of operations are adversely affected. We have a construction loan portfolio held for investment, in the amount of $168.7 million as of December 31, 2013, mostly secured by commercial and residential real estate properties. Due to their nature, these loans entail a higher credit risk than consumer and residential mortgage loans, since they are larger in size, concentrate more risk in a single borrower and are generally more sensitive to economic downturns. Although we previously ceased new originations of construction loans, decreasing collateral values, difficult economic conditions and numerous other factors continue to create volatility in the housing markets and have increased the possibility that additional losses may have to be recognized with respect to our current non-performing assets. Furthermore, given the slowdown in the real estate market, the properties securing these loans may be difficult to dispose of if they are foreclosed. Although we have taken a number of steps to reduce our credit exposure, as of December 31, 2013, we still had $58.9 million in nonperforming construction loans held for investment. We may continue to incur credit losses over the near term, either because of continued deterioration of the quality of the loans or because of sales of such loans, which would likely accelerate the recognition of losses. Any such losses would adversely impact our overall financial performance and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and we may be required to materially increase our allowance, which may adversely affect our capital, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the risk of loss from loan defaults and foreclosures with respect to the loans we originate and purchase. We establish a provision for loan losses, which leads to reductions in our income from operations, in order to maintain our allowance for inherent loan losses at a level that our management deems to be appropriate based upon an assessment of the quality of the loan portfolio. Management may fail to accurately estimate the level of inherent loan losses or may have to increase our provision for loan losses in the future as a result of new information regarding existing loans, future increases in non-performing loans, changes in economic and other conditions affecting borrowers or for other reasons beyond our control. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional classified loans and loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. The level of the allowance reflects management’s estimates based upon various assumptions and judgments as to specific credit risks, evaluation of industry concentrations, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates and judgments regarding current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates prove to be incorrect, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses in our loan portfolio and our expense relating to the additional provision for credit losses could increase substantially. Any such increases in our provision for loan losses or any loan losses in excess of our provision for loan losses would have an adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. Given the difficulties facing some of our largest borrowers, 27 these borrowers may fail to continue to repay their loans on a timely basis or we may not be able to assess accurately any risk of loss from the loans to these borrowers. Also, additional economic weakness, effect of the recent downgrade of Puerto Rico’s general obligation debt to non-investment grade, among others, could require increase reserves. Changes in collateral values of properties located in stagnant or distressed economies may require increased reserves. Further deterioration of the value of real estate collateral securing our construction, commercial and residential mortgage loan portfolios would result in increased credit losses. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 2.23%, 18.85% and 26.46% of our loan portfolio consisted of construction, commercial mortgage and residential real estate loans, respectively. A substantial part of our loan portfolio is located within the boundaries of the U.S. economy. Whether the collateral is located in Puerto Rico, the USVI, the BVI, or the U.S. mainland, the performance of our loan portfolio and the collateral value backing the transactions are dependent upon the performance of and conditions within each specific real estate market. Puerto Rico has been in an economic recession since 2006. Sustained weak economic conditions that have affected Puerto Rico and the United States over the last several years have resulted in declines in collateral values. Construction and commercial loans, mostly secured by commercial and residential real estate properties, entail a higher credit risk than consumer and residential mortgage loans, since they are larger in size, may have less collateral coverage, concentrate more risk in a single borrower and are generally more sensitive to economic downturns. As of December 31, 2013, commercial mortgage and construction real estate loans amounted to $2.0 billion or 21.1% of the total loan portfolio. We measure the impairment of a loan based on the fair value of the collateral, if collateral dependent, which is generally obtained from appraisals. Updated appraisals are obtained when we determine that loans are impaired and are updated annually thereafter. In addition, appraisals are also obtained for certain residential mortgage loans on a spot basis based on specific characteristics such as delinquency levels, age of the appraisal and loan-to-value ratios. The appraised value of the collateral may decrease or we may not be able to recover collateral at its appraised value. A significant decline in collateral valuations for collateral dependent loans may require increases in our specific provision for loan losses and an increase in the general valuation allowance. Any such increase would have an adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2013, net charge-offs specifically related to values of properties collateralizing construction, commercial mortgage and residential mortgage loans portfolios totaled $41.2 million, $62.6 million and $128.0 million, respectively, including charge-offs related to the bulk sales of assets described above. Interest rate shifts may reduce net interest income. Shifts in short-term interest rates may reduce net interest income, which is the principal component of our earnings. Net interest income is the difference between the amounts received by us on our interest-earning assets and the interest paid by us on our interest-bearing liabilities. Differences in the re-pricing structure of our assets and liabilities may result in changes in our profits when interest rates change. Increases in interest rates may reduce the value of holdings of securities. Fixed-rate securities acquired by us are generally subject to decreases in market value when interest rates rise, which may require recognition of a loss (e.g., the identification of an other-than-temporary impairment on our available-for-sale investment portfolio), thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. Market-related reductions in value also influence our ability to finance these securities. Furthermore, increases in interest rates may result in an extension of the expected average life of certain fixed-income securities, such as fixed-rate passthrough mortgage-backed securities. Such an extension could exacerbate the drop in market value related to shifts in interest rates. Increases in interest rates may reduce demand for mortgage and other loans. Higher interest rates increase the cost of mortgage and other loans to consumers and businesses and may reduce demand for such loans, which may negatively impact our profits by reducing the amount of loan interest income. Accelerated prepayments may adversely affect net interest income. In general, fixed-income portfolio yields could decrease as the re-investment of pre-payment amounts would most certainly be at lower rates. Net interest income could be affected by prepayments of mortgage-backed securities. Acceleration in the prepayments of mortgage-backed securities would lower yields on these securities, as the amortization of premiums paid upon the acquisition of these securities would accelerate. Conversely, acceleration in the prepayments of mortgage-backed securities would increase yields on securities purchased at a discount, as the accretion of the discount would accelerate. These risks are directly linked to future period market interest rate fluctuations. Also, net interest income in future periods might be affected by our investment in callable securities because decreases in interest rates might prompt the early redemption of such securities. Changes in interest rates on loans and borrowings may adversely affect net interest income. Basis risk is the risk of adverse consequences resulting from unequal changes in the difference, also referred to as the “spread” or basis, between the rates for two or more different instruments with the same maturity and occurs when market rates for different financial instruments or the indices used to price assets and liabilities change at different times or by different amounts. For example, 28 the interest expense for liability instruments such as brokered CDs might not change by the same amount as interest income received from loans or investments. To the extent that the interest rates on loans and borrowings change at different speeds and by different amounts, the margin between our LIBOR-based assets and the higher cost of the brokered CDs might be compressed and adversely affect net interest income. If all or a significant portion of the unrealized losses in our investment securities portfolio on our consolidated balance sheet is determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired, we would recognize a material charge to our earnings and our capital ratios would be adversely affected. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012, and 2013, we recognized a total of $2.0 million, $2.0 million, and $0.2 million, respectively, in other-than-temporary impairments. To the extent that any portion of the unrealized losses in our investment securities portfolio of $71.0 million as of December 31, 2013 is determined to be other-than-temporary and, in the case of debt securities, the loss is related to credit factors, we would recognize a charge to earnings in the quarter during which such determination is made and capital ratios could be adversely affected. Even if we do not determine that the unrealized losses associated with this portfolio require an impairment charge, increases in these unrealized losses adversely affect our tangible common equity ratio, which may adversely affect credit rating agency and investor sentiment towards us. Any negative perception also may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or might increase our cost of capital. Valuation and other-than-temporary impairment determinations will continue to be affected by external market factors including default rates, severity rates and macro-economic factors. Downgrades in our credit ratings could further increase the cost of borrowing funds. The Corporation’s ability to access new non-deposit sources of funding could be adversely affected by downgrades in our credit ratings. The Corporation’s liquidity is to a certain extent contingent upon its ability to obtain external sources of funding to finance its operations. The Corporation’s current credit ratings and any downgrades in such credit ratings can hinder the Corporation’s access to external funding and/or cause external funding to be more expensive, which could in turn adversely affect results of operations. Also, changes in credit ratings may further affect the fair value of certain unsecured derivatives that consider the Corporation’s own credit risk as part of the valuation. Following the downgrade of the general obligation rating of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, as discussed below, Moody’s placed on review for downgrade certain ratings of three Puerto Rican banks, including the long-term ratings of FirstBank. Defective and repurchased loans may harm our business and financial condition. In connection with the sale and securitization of loans, we are required to make a variety of customary representations and warranties regarding First BanCorp. on the loans sold or securitized. Our obligations with respect to these representations and warranties are generally outstanding for the life of the loan, and they relate to, among other things: · compliance with laws and regulations; · underwriting standards; · the accuracy of information in the loan documents and loan file; and · the characteristics and enforceability of the loan A loan that does not comply with these representations and warranties may take longer to sell, may impact our ability to obtain third party financing for the loan, and may not be saleable or may be saleable only at a significant discount. If such a loan is sold before we detect non-compliance, we may be obligated to repurchase the loan and bear any associated loss directly, or we may be obligated to indemnify the purchaser against any loss, either of which could reduce our cash available for operations and liquidity. Management believes that it has established controls to ensure that loans are originated in accordance with the secondary market’s requirements, but mistakes may be made, or certain employees may deliberately violate our lending policies. We seek to minimize repurchases and losses from defective loans by correcting flaws, if possible, and selling or re-selling such loans. Until now, losses incurred for repurchases of loans have been insignificant Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, our risk management policies and procedures may be inadequate and operational risk could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. We may fail to identify and manage risks related to a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, operational risk, interest-rate risk, trading risk, fiduciary risk, legal and compliance risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. We have adopted and periodically improved various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risk. Any improvements to our controls, procedures, policies and systems, however, may not be adequate to identify and manage the risks in our various businesses. If our risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to keep pace with changes in the financial markets or our businesses or for other reasons, we could incur losses or suffer reputational damage or find ourselves out of compliance with applicable regulatory mandates or expectations. We may also be subject to disruptions from external events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market settlement functions. In addition, our customers, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. Should these events affect us, or the customers, vendors or 29 counterparties with which we conduct business, our consolidated results of operations could be negatively affected. When we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies related to operational losses, we may be unable to accurately estimate our potential exposure, and any reserves we establish to cover operational losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition for the periods in which we recognize the losses. Cyber-attacks, system risks and data protection breaches could present significant reputational, legal and regulatory costs. First BanCorp. is under continuous threat of cyber-attacks especially as we continue to expand customer services via the internet and other remote service channels. Two of the most significant cyber attack risks that we may face are e-fraud and computer intrusion that might result in loss of sensitive customer data. Loss from e-fraud occurs when cybercriminals breach and extract funds from customer bank accounts. Computer intrusion attempts might result in the breach of sensitive customer data, such as account numbers and social security numbers, and could present significant reputational, legal and/or regulatory costs to the Corporation if successful. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of the evolving nature and complexity of the threats from organized cybercriminals and hackers, and our plans to continue to provide electronic banking services to our customers. If personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of our customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. We rely on other companies to perform key aspects of our business infrastructure Third parties perform key aspects of our business operations such as data processing, information security, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, internet connections and network access and the servicing of the credit card portfolio. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, or failure of a vendor to notify us of a reportable event, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor’s ability to serve us. Replacing these third party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations. Hurricanes and other weather-related events could cause a disruption in our operations or other consequences that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. A significant portion of our operations is located in a region susceptible to hurricanes. Such weather events can cause disruption to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. We maintain hurricane insurance, including coverage for lost profits and extra expense; however, there is no insurance against the disruption to the markets that we serve that a catastrophic hurricane could produce. Further, a hurricane in any of our market areas could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans and may adversely impact the value of any collateral held by us. The severity and impact of future hurricanes and other weather-related events are difficult to predict and may be exacerbated by global climate change. The effects of future hurricanes and other weather-related events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and we may not be able to hire people or retain them, particularly in light of uncertainty concerning compensation restrictions applicable to banks but not applicable to other financial services firms. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could adversely affect our business because of the loss of their skills, knowledge of our markets and years of industry experience and, in some cases, because of the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement employees. Similarly, the loss of key employees, either individually or as a group, could result in a loss of customer confidence in our ability to execute banking transactions on their behalf. Further increases in the FDIC deposit insurance premium or in FDIC required reserves may have a significant financial impact on us. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured depository institutions up to certain limits. The FDIC charges insured depository institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”). Current economic conditions during the last few years have resulted in higher bank failures. In the event of a bank failure, the FDIC takes control of a failed bank and ensures payment of deposits up to insured limits using the resources of the DIF. The FDIC is required by law to maintain adequate funding of the DIF, and the FDIC may increase premium assessments to maintain such funding. 30 The Dodd-Frank Act signed into law on July 21, 2010 requires the FDIC to increase the DIF’s reserves against future losses, which will require institutions with assets greater than $10 billion to bear an increased responsibility for funding the prescribed reserve to support the DIF. Since then, the FDIC addressed plans to bolster the DIF by increasing the required reserve ratio for the industry to 1.35 percent (ratio of reserves to insured deposits) by September 30, 2020, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The FDIC has also adopted a final rule raising its industry target ratio of reserves to insured deposits to 2 percent, 65 basis points above the statutory minimum, but the FDIC does not project that goal to be met for several years. In February 2011, the FDIC issued a final rule that amended its deposit insurance assessment regulations. The rule implements a provision in the Dodd-Frank Act that changes the assessment base for deposit insurance premiums from one based on domestic deposits to one based on average consolidated total assets minus average Tier 1 capital. The rule also changed the assessment rate schedules for insured depository institutions so that approximately the same amount of revenue would be collected under the new assessment base as would be collected under the previous rate schedule and the schedules previously proposed by the FDIC. The rule also revised the risk-based assessment system for all large insured depository institutions (generally, institutions with at least $10 billion in total assets, such as FirstBank). Under the rule, the FDIC uses a scorecard method to calculate assessment rates for all such institutions. The FDIC may further increase FirstBank’s premiums or impose additional assessments or prepayment requirements in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act has removed the statutory cap for the reserve ratio, leaving the FDIC free to set this cap going forward. Losses in the value of investments in entities that the Corporation does not control could have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition or results of operations. The Corporation has investments in entities that it does not control, including a 35% subordinated ownership interest in CPG/GS PR NPL, LLC (“CPG/GS”), organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, which is majority owned by PRLP Ventures LLC (“PRLP”), a company created by Goldman Sachs and Co. and Caribbean Property Group. CPG/GS is seeking to maximize the recovery of its investment in loans that it acquired from FirstBank. The Corporation’s 35% interest in CPG/GS is subordinated to the interest of the majority investor in CPG/GS, which is entitled to recover its investment and receive a priority 12% return on its invested capital. The Corporation’s equity interest with a carrying value of $7.3 million is also subordinated to the aggregate amount of its loans to CPG/GS in the amount of $69.4 million as of December 31, 2013. Therefore, the Corporation will not receive any return on its investment until PRLP receives an aggregate amount equivalent to its initial investment and a priority return of at least 12%, resulting in FirstBank’s interest in CPG/GS being subordinated to PRLP’s interest. The Corporation’s interests in CPG/GS and other entities that it does not control preclude it from exercising control over the business strategy or other operational aspects of these entities. The Corporation’s investment in this unconsolidated entity was considered significant under Rule 3-09 of Regulation S-X for the year ended December 31, 2012, requiring the filing of full financial statements of the investee for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. The Corporation cannot provide assurance that the equity investee that it does not control will operate in a manner that will increase the value of the Corporation’s investments, that the Corporation’s proportionate share of income or losses from these entities will continue at the current level in the future or that the Corporation will not incur losses from the holding of such investments. Additional write-downs to the carrying amount of the Corporation’s equity interest could adversely impact the Corporation’s results of operations. Our businesses may be adversely affected by litigation. From time to time, our customers, or the government on their behalf, may make claims and take legal action relating to our performance of fiduciary or contractual responsibilities. We may also face employment lawsuits or other legal claims. In any such claims or actions, demands for substantial monetary damages may be asserted against us resulting in financial liability or an adverse effect on our reputation among investors or on customer demand for our products and services. We may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure to litigation risk when we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies. As a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements or judgments may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In the ordinary course of our business, we are also subject to various regulatory, governmental and law enforcement inquiries, investigations and subpoenas. These may be directed generally to participants in the businesses in which we are involved or may be specifically directed at us. In regulatory enforcement matters, claims for disgorgement, the imposition of penalties and the imposition of other remedial sanctions are possible. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. The resolution of legal actions or regulatory matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations for the quarter in which such actions or matters are resolved or a reserve is established. Our businesses may be negatively affected by adverse publicity or other reputational harm. 31 Our relationships with many of our customers are predicated upon our reputation as a fiduciary and a service provider that adheres to the highest standards of ethics, service quality and regulatory compliance. Adverse publicity, regulatory actions, like the Regulatory Agreements, litigation, operational failures, the failure to meet customer expectations and other issues with respect to one or more of our businesses could materially and adversely affect our reputation, or our ability to attract and retain customers or obtain sources of funding for the same or other businesses. Preserving and enhancing our reputation also depends on maintaining systems and procedures that address known risks and regulatory requirements, as well as our ability to identify and mitigate additional risks that arise due to changes in our businesses, the market places in which we operate, the regulatory environment and customer expectations. If any of these developments has a material adverse effect on our reputation, our business will suffer. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. Our financial statements are subject to the application of U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), which are periodically revised and expanded. Accordingly, from time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to promulgate new requirements that further interpret or seek to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions as well as to revise standards to expand disclosures. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in footnotes to our financial statements, which are incorporated herein by reference. An assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting standards that we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may adversely affect our operating results. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under GAAP, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of the goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in the industry. The goodwill impairment evaluation process requires us to make estimates and assumptions with regards to the fair value of our reporting units. Actual values may differ significantly from these estimates. Such differences could result in future impairment of goodwill that would, in turn, negatively impact our results of operations and the reporting unit where the goodwill is recorded. We conducted our 2013 evaluation of goodwill during the fourth quarter of 2013. The Step 1 evaluation of goodwill allocated to the Florida reporting unit under both valuation approaches (market and discounted cash flow analysis) indicated that the fair value of the unit was above the carrying amount of its equity book value as of the valuation date (October 1), which meant that Step 2 was not undertaken. Goodwill with a carrying value of $28.1 million was not impaired as of December 31, 2013 or 2012, nor was any goodwill written off due to impairment during 2013, 2012, and 2011. If we are required to record a charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements because an impairment of the goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The imposition of additional taxes in Puerto Rico may further deteriorate the economy, impact our profitability and adversely impact the credit quality of the Corporation’s loan portfolios. On June 30, 2013, the Government of Puerto Rico signed into law Act 40, as one of the laws enacted to balance the budget for the general fund of the Government of Puerto Rico for fiscal year 2013-2014. Act 40 provides significant amendments to the 2011 PR Code, and affects mainly persons doing business in Puerto Rico. The main provisions of Act 40 that impact financial institutions include: (i) A new national gross receipts tax that in the case of financial institutions is 1% of gross income that is not deductible for purposes of computing net taxable income and is not part of the AMT. This provision was retroactive to January 1, 2013. An expense of $5.9 million was recorded during the year 2013 related to the national gross receipts tax. This expense is included as part of “Taxes, other than income taxes” in the consolidated statement of (loss) income. Subject to certain limitations, a financial institution will be able to claim a credit of 0.5% of its gross income against its regular income tax or the alternative minimum tax. A $3.0 million benefit related to this credit was recorded as a reduction to the provision for income taxes in 2013. (ii) A decrease in the deduction available to corporations for the computation of the additional surtax from $750,000 to $25,000 and a change in the surtax rate to rates that range from 5% to 19%, resulting in an increase in the maximum statutory tax rate from 30% to 39%. This provision was also retroactive to January 1, 2013. The effect on operating results 32 in 2013 related to these changes was a net benefit of approximately $1.3 million, mainly due to the increase in the deferred tax asset of profitable subsidiaries. The deferred tax valuation allowance increased to $522.7 million as of December 31, 2013 from $359.9 million at December 31, 2012 as a result of changes in tax rates and operating results for the year. (iii) A higher AMT rate (30% of the alternative minimum net income, as compared to 20% previously) and various parallel computations required to be made before determining whether an AMT liability exists. This change did not have an impact on the Corporation’s provision for income taxes recorded in 2013. (iv) The NOL carryover period increased from 10 years to 12 years for losses incurred in taxable years that commenced after December 31, 2004 and ended before January 1, 2013. The carryover period for NOLs incurred during taxable years commencing after December 31, 2012 is 10 years. The NOL deduction is now limited to 90% of taxable income for regular income tax purposes and 80% for AMT purposes. Significant changes to the sales and use tax regime include adjustments to the business to business exclusion. The business to business exclusion applicable to services rendered from one registered business to another registered business remains in effect, except for certain services that will be taxable including, among others, service charges imposed by financial institutions on other businesses (commercial clients), collection services, repairs and maintenance services related to real and personal property, and computer programming including modifications to previously designed systems. The sales and use tax provisions were effective beginning on July 1, 2013. In addition, on October 14, 2013, Act No.117 (“Act 117”) implemented technical amendments to various income tax laws, including the 2011 PR Code. The main provisions of Act 117 that impacted financial institutions are the exemption from the imposition of the national gross receipts tax on foreign source income and the temporary requirement of an estimated tax payment in mid-October. On November 26, 2013, Act No.36 was enacted, to among other things, require the payment of estimated taxes related to personal property tax returns. These amendments of Act No. 36 will be effective during the year 2014. Act 40 imposes various income tax provisions applicable to certain individual tax payers and non-financial institutions as well, including taxes on gross receipts and increases in statutory tax rates. The imposition of these taxes could adversely affect the Corporation’s profitability, and could affect the disposable income of borrowers causing increases in delinquencies and foreclosure rates. Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income by the Bank, which has been in a cumulative loss position since 2009. As of December 31, 2013, the Corporation had a gross deferred tax asset of $539.2 million, including $371.7 million associated with net operating losses (“NOLs”). Under Puerto Rico law, the Corporation and its subsidiaries, including FirstBank, which incurred most of the NOLs, are treated as separate taxable entities and are not entitled to file consolidated tax returns. To obtain the full benefit of the applicable deferred tax asset attributable to NOLs, FirstBank must have sufficient taxable income within the applicable carry forward period (7 years for taxable years beginning before January 1, 2005, 12 years for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2004 and before December 31, 2012, and 10 years for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012). The Bank incurred all of the NOL’s on or after 2009. Accounting for income taxes requires that companies assess whether a valuation allowance should be recorded against their deferred tax asset based on an assessment of the amount of the deferred tax asset that is ”more likely than not” to be realized. In assessing the weight of positive and negative evidence, a significant negative factor that resulted in the recognition and maintenance of a significant valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset was that FirstBank was in a three-year cumulative loss position as of December 31, 2013. As of December 31, 2013, the Corporation recorded a valuation allowance of $522.7 million. Due to significant estimates utilized in establishing the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is reasonably possible that the Corporation will not be able to reverse portions or the full valuation allowance in the future or that the Corporation will need to continue increasing the valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets created in connection with the operations of FirstBank. The Corporation’s judgments regarding accounting policies and the resolution of tax disputes may impact the Corporation’s earnings and cash flow. Significant judgment is required in determining the Corporation’s effective tax rate and in evaluating its tax positions. The Corporation provides for uncertain tax positions when such tax positions do not meet the recognition thresholds or measurement criteria prescribed by applicable GAAP. Fluctuations in federal, state, local and foreign taxes or a change to uncertain tax positions, including related interest and penalties, may impact the Corporation’s effective tax rate. When particular tax matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. In addition, tax positions may be challenged by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and the tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate and we may estimate and provide for potential liabilities that may arise out of tax audits to the extent that uncertain tax positions fail to meet the recognition standard under applicable GAAP. Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter could increase the effective tax rate and could result in a material increase in our tax expense. Resolution of a tax 33 issue may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. The years 2007 through 2009 have been examined by the IRS and disputed issues have been taken to administrative appeals. Although the timing of the resolution and/or closure of audits is highly uncertain, based on the latest developments, the Corporation believes it is reasonably possible that the IRS will conclude the audit of years 2007 through 2009 within the next twelve months. If any issues addressed in this audit are resolved in a manner not consistent with the Corporation’s expectations, the Corporation could be required to adjust its provision for income taxes in the period in which such resolution occurs. The Corporation currently cannot reasonably estimate a range of possible changes to existing reserves. We must respond to rapid technological changes, and these changes may be more difficult or expensive than anticipated. If competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing product and service offerings, technology and systems may become obsolete. Further, if we fail to adopt or develop new technologies or to adapt our products and services to emerging industry standards, we may lose current and future customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is changing rapidly and, in order to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. These changes may be more difficult or expensive than we anticipate. RISKS RELATING TO THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND OUR INDUSTRY Difficult market conditions have affected the financial industry and may adversely affect us in the future. Given that most of our business is in Puerto Rico and the United States and given the degree of interrelation between Puerto Rico’s economy and that of the United States, we are exposed to downturns in the U.S. economy. Continued high levels of unemployment and underemployment in the United States and depressed real estate valuations have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans, credit default swaps and other derivatives, and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial banks and investment banks. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital from private and government entities, merge with larger and stronger financial institutions and, in some cases, fail. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and other financial institutions. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite the loans become less predictive of future behaviors. • The models used to estimate losses inherent in the credit exposure require difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of the borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation and which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the models. • Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in sales of mortgage loans to third parties (including mortgage loan securitization transactions with government-sponsored entities and repurchase agreements) on favorable terms, or at all, could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including deteriorating investor expectations. • Competitive dynamics in the industry could change as a result of consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. • We may be unable to comply with the Regulatory Agreements, which could result in further regulatory enforcement actions. • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • There may be downward pressure on our stock price. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, our ability to access capital and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Continuation of the economic slowdown and decline in the real estate market in the U.S. mainland and in Puerto Rico could continue to harm our results of operations. The residential mortgage loan origination business has historically been cyclical, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of shrinking volumes and industry-wide losses. The market for residential mortgage loan originations has declined over the past few years and this trend may continue to reduce the level of mortgage loans we produce in the future and adversely affect our business. During periods of rising interest rates, the refinancing of many mortgage products tends to decrease as 34 the economic incentives for borrowers to refinance their existing mortgage loans are reduced. In addition, the residential mortgage loan origination business is impacted by home values. Over the past few years, residential real estate values in many areas of the U.S. and Puerto Rico have decreased significantly, which has led to lower volumes and higher losses across the industry, adversely impacting our mortgage business. The actual rates of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on loans have been higher during the economic slowdown. Rising unemployment, lower interest rates and declines in housing prices have had a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to repay their mortgage loans. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could continue to harm our ability to sell loans, the prices we receive for loans, the values of mortgage loans held for sale or residual interests in securitizations, which could continue to harm our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any additional material decline in real estate values would further weaken the collateral loan-to-value ratios and increase the possibility of loss if a borrower defaults. In such event, we will be subject to the risk of loss on such real estate arising from borrower defaults to the extent not covered by third-party credit enhancement. Our credit quality may be adversely affected by Puerto Rico’s current economic condition. A significant portion of our financial activities and credit exposure is concentrated in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, which has been in a multi-year prolonged recession. Based on the first six months of fiscal year 2013-2014, the main economic indicators suggest that the Puerto Rico economy remains weak. The Commonwealth’s gross national product has contracted (in real terms) every year except one since fiscal year 2007. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014, the Puerto Rico Planning Board projects a decline of 0.8% in real gross national product. This contraction may have had an adverse effect on employment and could have an adverse effect on Commonwealth tax revenues and, consequently, on the Commonwealth’s ability to achieve a balanced budget. The Government has implemented a multi-year budget plan for reducing the deficit, as its access to the municipal bond market and its credit ratings depend, in part, on achieving a balanced budget. Some of the measures implemented by the government include increasing corporate taxes and reforming the employee retirement systems of the Commonwealth. Since the government is an important source of employment in Puerto Rico, these measures had a temporary adverse effect on the island’s already weak economy. Despite the adverse effects, the government continues evaluating alternatives to decrease the general fund fiscal budget deficit. The fiscal year 2014 approved budget was configured with an $820 million deficit, expected to be covered with $575 million in general obligation debt service refinancing and $245 million in new deficit financing from the Government Development Bank of Puerto Rico (GDB). On February 3, 2014, the government announced that it would reduce the fiscal year 2014 deficit to $650 million by proposing legislation to reduce fiscal year 2014 appropriations by $170 million. In addition, the Governor announced his commitment to recommend to the legislature the approval of a balanced budget for fiscal year 2015. On February 5, 2014, legislation was submitted to the Legislative Assembly to reduce fiscal year 2014 appropriations by $170 million. During the first six months of fiscal year 2014, total employment fell by 2.0% as compared to the same period for the prior fiscal year, and the unemployment rate averaged 14.8% compared to 14.2% for the same period of the prior fiscal year. According to the Establishment Survey, total payroll non-farm employment decreased by 4.3% during the first six months of fiscal year 2014. This reduction is partially attributable to attrition and to the changes to the Employees Retirement System, as more than 46% of the total employment reductions experienced during this period corresponded to decreases in state and local government employment. The economy of Puerto Rico is very sensitive to the price of oil in the global market since it does not have a significant mass transit system available to the public and most of its electricity is powered by oil, making it highly sensitive to fluctuations in oil prices. A substantial increase in the price of oil could impact the economy adversely by reducing disposable income and increasing the operating costs of most businesses and government. Consumer spending is particularly sensitive to wide fluctuations in oil prices. Several bills have been filed at the Legislative Assembly that address energy costs in Puerto Rico. One bill supported by the Governor proposes to restructure the Telecommunications Regulatory Board into the Energy and Telecommunications Commission, which will be responsible for all energy and telecommunications regulatory matters. This new entity would also be responsible for all tariff-related issues. Another bill supported by the President of the Senate proposes to create a regulatory agency that will approve or reject energy rates for all energy producers in Puerto Rico and would be responsible for opening up Puerto Rico’s energy market to competition. Both proposals aim to substantially reduce Puerto Rico’s energy costs. The decline in Puerto Rico’s economy since 2006 has resulted in, among other things, a downturn in our loan originations, an increase in the level of our non-performing assets, loan loss provisions and charge-offs, particularly in our construction and commercial loan portfolios, an increase in the rate of foreclosure loss on mortgage loans, and a reduction in the value of our loan portfolio, all of which have adversely affected our profitability. If a decline in economic activity continues, there could be further adverse effects on our profitability. On February 4, 2014, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”) lowered its rating on the general obligation bonds of the Commonwealth from “BBB-” to “BB+,” which is a non-investment grade rating. S&P also lowered its rating on the GDB bonds to “BB,” one notch below the Commonwealth’s general obligation rating, and lowered its rating on the bonds of several other Commonwealth issuers. S&P maintained its “AA-” and “A+” ratings on the senior and subordinate bonds of the Puerto Rico Sales Tax Financing Authority (“COFINA”). 35 On February 7, 2014, Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”) lowered its rating on the general obligation bonds of the Commonwealth two notches, from “Baa3” to “Ba2”, which is a non-investment grade rating. Moody’s also lowered its rating on the bonds of several other Commonwealth issuers to “Ba2,” including GDB. On February 10, 2014, Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”) lowered its rating on the general obligation bonds of the Commonwealth by two notches from “BBB-” to “BB”, which is a non-investment grade rating. Fitch also lowered its ratings on the bonds of several other government agencies. Fitch maintained its “AA-” and“A+” ratings on COFINA’s senior and subordinate bonds. It is uncertain how the financial markets may react to any potential further ratings downgrade of Puerto Rico’s debt obligation. However, further deterioration in the fiscal situation, could adversely affect the value of our loans to government and our portfolio of Puerto Rico government and agencies securities. As of December 31, 2013, the Corporation had $454.6 million of credit facilities granted to the Puerto Rico Government, its municipalities and public corporations, of which $397.8 million was outstanding, compared to $158.4 million as of December 31, 2012. Approximately $200.5 million of the outstanding credit facilities consists of loans to municipalities in Puerto Rico. Municipal debt exposure is secured by ad valorem taxation without limitation as to rate or amount on all taxable property within the boundaries of each municipality. The good faith, credit, and unlimited taxing power of each applicable municipality have been pledged to the repayment of all outstanding bonds and notes. Approximately $84.6 million consists of loans to public corporations that receive revenues from the rates they charge for services or products, such as electric power services, including credit extended to the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority for fuel purchases that have priority over senior bonds and other debt. Main public corporations have varying degrees of independence from the central government and many receive appropriations or other payments from the Puerto Rico’s government general fund. Approximately $112.7 million consists of loans to the central government or units of the central government. Debt issued by the central government can either carry the full faith, credit, and taxing power of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or represent an obligation, that is subject to annual budget appropriations. The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico has never defaulted on its debt. Furthermore, the Corporation had $205.1 million outstanding as of December 31, 2013 in financing to the hotel industry in Puerto Rico guaranteed by the Puerto Rico Tourism Development Fund (“TDF”). The TDF is a subsidiary of the GDB that works with private-sector financial institutions to structure financings for new hospitality projects. The TDF has a perfect track record of supporting its guarantees. In addition, the Corporation held approximately $71.0 million of obligation of the Puerto Rico government and agencies, mainly bonds of the GDB and the Puerto Rico Building Authority, as part of its available-for-sale investment securities portfolio, which were reflected at their aggregate fair value of $51.3 million as of December 31, 2013. In mid-August 2013, the 30-year general obligation bonds of the Puerto Rico government, which are widely held by mutual funds, carried a yield of about 7.1%, which increased during the latter part of the third quarter of 2013, surpassing 10% at one point in September amid a general run-up in interest rates and significant selling by investors after Detroit filed for the largest municipal bankruptcy in United States history. The debt carried a yield of approximately 9.23% as of December 31, 2013. Based on S&P definition of a BB credit rating, the debt rating suggest that S&P views the Puerto Rico Government’s obligation as less vulnerable to nonpayment in the near term than other speculative issues. However, it faces major ongoing uncertainties or exposure to adverse business, financial or economic conditions; thus, the ultimate, impact of the government and agencies bond obligations downgrades on the overall economy is unpredictable and may not be immediately apparent. The decrease in value during 2013 of the Puerto Rico government and agencies bonds held by the Corporation was mainly the result of the decreases on prices in the municipal bonds market caused by the Detroit default and subsequent significant sales of municipal bonds. The price declines also showed a correlation to benchmark interest rate movements. The Corporation believes that the declines in value resulted from the above factors and not a change in expected cash flows. The issuers of Puerto Rico government and agencies bonds held by the Corporation have not defaulted, and the contractual payments on these securities have been made as scheduled. As of December 31, 2013, the Corporation had $546.5 million of public sector deposits in Puerto Rico ($285.6 million in transactional accounts and $260.8 million in time deposits). Approximately 21% came from municipalities and 79% came from public corporations and the central government. In 2014, Act 24-2014 was approved by the Puerto Rico Legislature, seeking to further strengthen the liquidity of the GDB and the GDB’s oversight over public funds. Among other measures, Act 24-2014 grants the GDB the ability to exercise additional oversight of certain public funds deposited at private financial institutions and grants the GDB the legal authority, subject to an entity’s ability to request waivers under certain specified circumstances, to require such public funds (other than funds of the Legislative Branch, the Judicial Branch, the University of Puerto Rico, governmental pension plans, municipalities and certain other independent agencies) to be deposited at the GDB, which is expected to result in a more efficient management of public resources in an effort to maximize liquidity and efficient use of public resources. The GDB has identified approximately $450 million in public funds deposited in private financial institutions in Puerto Rico that the GDB’s management currently expects to capture in the first half of calendar year 2014. The Corporation believes that $250 million in public deposits held by the Corporation are at high risk of migration. Current and future liquidity levels have been planned considering that risk. As such, no material adverse effects are expected as a result of the potential reduction in public funds. The Corporation will continue to focus on transactional accounts and capture deposits from entities excluded from Act 24-2014. 36 The failure of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by future failures of financial institutions and the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to different industries and counterparties and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, investment companies and other institutional clients. In certain of these transactions, we are required to post collateral to secure the obligations to the counterparties. In the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding involving one of such counterparties, we may experience delays in recovering the assets posted as collateral, or we may incur a loss to the extent that the counterparty was holding collateral in excess of the obligation to such counterparty. In addition, many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by our counterparty or client. In addition, the credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. In addition to loans extended to government entities, the largest loan to one borrower as of December 31, 2013 in the amount of $240.1 million is with one financial institution in Puerto Rico, Doral Financial Corporation. Any losses resulting from our routine funding transactions may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may increase our costs and impact our business, governance structure, financial condition or results of operations. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation by multiple regulatory bodies. These regulations may affect the manner and terms of delivery of our services. If we do not comply with governmental regulations, we may be subject to fines, penalties, lawsuits or material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which may adversely affect our business operations. Changes in these regulations can significantly affect the services that we are asked to provide as well as our costs of compliance with such regulations. In addition, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to attract and retain customers. The financial crisis resulted in government regulatory agencies and political bodies placing increased focus and scrutiny on the financial services industry. The U.S. government intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding by temporarily enhancing the liquidity support available to financial institutions, establishing a commercial paper funding facility, temporarily guaranteeing money market funds and certain types of debt issuances and increasing insurance on bank deposits. These programs have subjected financial institutions, particularly those participating in TARP, to additional restrictions, oversight and costs. In addition, new proposals for legislation are periodically introduced in the U.S. Congress that could further substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry, impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices, including in the areas of interest rates, financial product offerings and disclosures, and have an effect on bankruptcy proceedings with respect to consumer residential real estate mortgages, among other things. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. In recent years, regulatory oversight and enforcement have increased substantially, imposing additional costs and increasing the potential risks associated with our operations. If these regulatory trends continue, they could adversely affect our business and, in turn, our consolidated results of operations. Financial services legislation and regulatory reforms may have a significant impact on our business and results of operations and on our credit ratings. The Corporation faces increased regulation and regulatory scrutiny as a result of its participation in the TARP. The U.S. Department of the Treasury acquired shares of Common Stock from the Corporation in October 2011 in exchange for shares of preferred stock that it owned because of the Corporation’s issuance of preferred stock to Treasury in January 2009 pursuant to the TARP. In July 2010, the Corporation issued to Treasury a warrant, which amends, restates and replaces the original warrant that it issued to Treasury in January 2009 under the TARP. The Corporation’s participation in the TARP also imposes limitations on the payments it may make to its senior leaders. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changed the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act includes, and the regulations developed and to be developed thereunder include or will include, provisions affecting large and small financial institutions alike. The Collins Amendment in the Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, requires the federal banking agencies to establish minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements that will apply to both insured banks and their holding companies. Regulations implementing the Collins Amendment became effective on July 28, 2011 and set as a floor for the capital requirements of the Corporation and FirstBank a minimum capital requirement computed using the FDIC’s general risk-based capital rules. On July 2, 2013, the federal banking agencies adopted final rules for U.S. banks that revise in important respects the minimum regulatory capital requirements, the components of regulatory capital, and the risk-based capital treatment of bank assets and off- 37 balance sheet exposures. The final rules, which come into effect for the Corporation and FirstBank beginning January 1, 2015, generally are intended to align U.S. regulatory capital requirements with international regulatory capital standards adopted by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, in particular the most recent international capital accord adopted in 2010 (and revised in 2011) known as “Basel III.” The new rules will increase the quantity and quality of required capital by, among other things, establishing a new minimum common equity Tier 1 ratio of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets and an additional common equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets. In addition, banks and bank holding companies are required to have a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based ratio of 6.0% and a total risk-based ratio of 8.0%. The final rules also revise the definition of capital by expanding the conditions for the inclusion of equity capital instruments and minority interests as Tier 1 capital, and will impose limitations on capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments if additional specified amounts, or “buffers,” of common equity Tier 1 capital are not met. Consistent with Basel III and the Collins Amendment, the final rules also establish a more conservative standard for including an instrument such as trust-preferred securities as Tier 1 capital for bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $15 billion or more as of December 31, 2009, setting out a phase-out schedule. Bank holding companies such as the Corporation must fully phase out these instruments from Tier I capital by January 1, 2016, although qualifying trust preferred securities may be included as Tier 2 capital until the instruments are redeemed or mature. As of December 31, 2013, the Corporation had $225 million in trust preferred securities that are subject to the phase-out from Tier 1 capital under the final regulatory capital rules discussed above. In addition, the final rules revise and harmonize the bank regulators’ rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to enhance risk sensitivity and address weaknesses that have been identified recently, by applying a variation of the Basel III “standardized approach” for the risk-weighting of bank assets and off-balance sheet exposures to all U.S. banking organizations other than large, internationally active banks. The final capital rules will become effective for the Corporation and our subsidiary bank on a multi-year transitional basis starting on January 1, 2015, and in general will be fully effective as of January 1, 2019. While we cannot calculate the precise impact of the final capital rules on our business and financial condition at this time, we believe that First BanCorp. and FirstBank will be able to meet well-capitalized capital ratios upon implementation of the requirements. Although we expect to continue to exceed the minimum requirements for well capitalized status following the implementation of Basel III, there can be no assurance that we will remain well capitalized. The U.S banking regulators are also expected to adopt regulatory liquidity requirements, including a liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) and a net stable funding ratio (NSFR), which are intended to ensure that firms hold sufficient liquid assets over different time horizons to fun operations if other funding sources are unavailable. On January 6, 2013, the Basel Committee announced that its liquidity requirements would be phased-in annually beginning in 2015, when the minimum liquidity ratio requirement would be set at 60% of required liquidity, then increasing an additional 10% annually until fully implemented on January 1, 2019. Additionally, although the timing is uncertain, the U.S. banking regulators are expected to propose and enact rules regarding the NSFR. Additional regulatory proposals and legislation, if finally adopted, would change banking laws and our operating environment and that of our subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways. The ultimate effect that such legislation, if enacted, or regulations would have upon our financial condition or results of operations may be adverse. Rulemaking changes implemented by the CFPB will result in higher regulatory and compliance costs related to originating and servicing residential mortgage loans and may adversely affect our results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changed the regulation of single-family residential mortgage lending in the United States. Among other things, the law transferred rule-making and enforcement powers from a number of federal agencies to the CFPB, imposed new risk retention and recordkeeping requirements on lenders (such as the Bank) which sell single-family residential mortgage loans in the secondary market, required revision of disclosure documents mandated by various federal laws, limited loan originator compensation and expanded recordkeeping and reporting requirements under other federal statutes. New regulations implement the Dodd-Frank Act amendments to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth in Lending Act (“TILA”), and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (“RESPA”). Among other changes, these regulations: (i) require lenders to make a reasonable good faith determination of a prospective residential mortgage borrower’s ability to repay based on specific underwriting criteria certain of which need to be supported through the verification of third party records. To the extent the lender intends to originate “qualified mortgages” that presumptively satisfy the ability to pay requirement ( thereby providing the lender a safe harbor from compliance claims) stricter underwriting criteria is required, (ii) impose new requirements on mortgage servicing that address many issues, including periodic billing statements, error resolution, force-placed insurance, payment crediting and payoff, early intervention with delinquent borrowers, and enhanced loss mitigation procedures, (iii) specify new limitations on loan originator compensation and establish criteria for the qualifications of, and registration or licensing of loan originators, (iv) further restrict certain high-cost mortgage loans by expanding the coverage of the Home Ownership and Equity Protections Act of 1994, (v) expand mandated loan escrow accounts for certain loans, (vi) revise existing appraisal requirements under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and require provision of a free copy of all appraisals to applicants for first lien loans, (vii) establish new appraisal standards for “higher-risk mortgages” under TILA, and (viii) combine in a single, new form required loan disclosures under the TILA and RESPA. 38 The new ability to repay requirements may result in reduced credit availability and higher borrowing costs to cover the costs of compliance. The ability of borrowers to raise new defenses in foreclosure proceedings on defaulted mortgage loans also may lead to increased foreclosure costs, extend foreclosure timeliness, and increase the severity of loan losses. Increased repurchase and indemnity requests with respect to mortgage loans sold into the secondary markets may also result. Apart from use of the TILA/RESPA combined disclosure form,which becomes effective August 1, 2015, some of these new rules became effective in June 2013, while others became effective in January 2014. These and other changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act will require substantial modifications to the entire mortgage lending and servicing industry. Their impact may involve changes to our operations and increased compliance costs in making single-family residential mortgage loans. Forthcoming additional rulemaking affecting the residential mortgage business is also expected and may cause us to incur additional increased regulatory and compliance costs. Compliance with stress testing requirements may be challenging. The Corporation is currently subject to supervisory guidance for stress testing practices issued by the federal banking agencies in May 2012. This guidance outlines broad principles for a satisfactory stress testing framework and describes various stress testing approaches and how stress testing should be used at various levels within an organization. The Corporation is also subject to two new stress testing rules that implement provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act (the “DFA Stress Tests”), one issued by the Federal Reserve Board that applies to First BanCorp. on a consolidated basis and one issued by the FDIC that applies to the Bank. These DFA Stress Tests are designed to require banking organizations to assess the potential impact of different scenarios on their earnings, losses and capital over a set time period, with consideration given to certain relevant factors, including the organization's condition, risks, exposures, strategies, and activities. These DFA Stress Tests require banking organizations with total consolidated assets of more than $10 billion but less than $50 billion, including the Corporation and the Bank, to conduct annual company-run stress tests using certain scenarios that the Federal Reserve Board will publish by November 15 of each year, report the results to their primary federal regulator and the Federal Reserve Board by March 31 of the following year, and publicly disclose, beginning in 2015, a summary of the results by June 30 of that year. On March 5, 2014, the federal banking agencies published final supervisory guidance (previously proposed in July 2013) describing their supervisory expectations for the DFA Stress Tests to be conducted by financial institutions, in the $10 billion to $50 billion asset range, including First BanCorp. and the Bank. The final guidance provides flexibility to accommodate different risk profiles, sizes, business lines, market areas, and complexity approaches for banking institutions in the $10 billion to $50 billion asset range, and provide examples of practices that would be consistent with supervisory expectations. Under the DFA Stress Tests, the Corporation is required to conduct its first stress tests using financial statement data as of September 30, 2013, and to report the results to the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC by March 31, 2014. In addition, the Corporation is required to begin publicly disclosing the stress test results by the end of June 2015 with respect to the stress test conducted in the fall of 2014. Such public disclosure of stress test results could result in reputational harm if the Corporation’s results are worse than those of its competitors or otherwise indicate that the Corporation’s risk profile is excessive or elevated. Furthermore, given that the Corporation will be subject to multiple stress testing requirements that are administered at different levels by more than one federal banking agency, and compliance with such requirements will be complicated, if the Corporation fails to fully comply with these requirements, it may be subject to regulatory action. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, our earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board. An important function of the Federal Reserve Board is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve Board to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adverse. We are subject to numerous laws designed to protect consumers, including the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions. The Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful regulatory challenge to an institution's performance under the Community Reinvestment Act or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, restrictions on expansion and restrictions on entering new business lines. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 39 We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. The Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. We are also subject to increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO AN INVESTMENT IN THE CORPORATION’S COMMON AND PREFERRED STOCK Sales in the public market under an outstanding resale registration statement filed with the SEC by the small group of large stockholders that hold in the aggregate approximately 50.55% of our outstanding shares could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The following stockholders individually own more than 10% of our outstanding shares of common stock, or an aggregate of approximately 50.55% of our outstanding shares of common stock: funds affiliated with THL, which own approximately 20.21%; funds managed by Oaktree, which own approximately 20.21%; and Treasury which owns approximately 10.139% including the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant. We are obligated to keep the prospectus, which is part of the resale registration statement, current so that the securities can be sold in the public market at any time. The resale of the securities in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Issuance of additional equity securities in the public market and other capital management or business strategies that we may pursue also depress the market price of our common stock and could result in dilution of holders of our common stock and preferred stock. Generally, we are not restricted from issuing additional equity securities, including common stock. We may choose or be required in the future to identify, consider and pursue additional capital management strategies to bolster our capital position. We may issue equity securities (including convertible securities, preferred securities, and options and warrants on our common or preferred stock securities) in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, adjust our leverage ratio, address regulatory capital concerns, restructure currently outstanding debt or equity securities or satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants. Future issuances of our equity securities, including common stock, in any transaction that we may pursue may dilute the interests of our existing holders of our common stock and preferred stock and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The Corporation has outstanding a warrant held by the Treasury to purchase 1,285,899 shares of common stock. If the Warrant is exercised, the issuance of shares of Common Stock would reduce our income per share, and further reduce the book value per share and voting power of our current common stockholders. Additionally, THL, Oaktree and funds advised by Wellington Management Company, LLP (“Wellington”) have anti-dilution rights, which they acquired when they purchased shares of common stock in the $525 million capital raise, completed in October 2011 that have been, and will be in the future, triggered, subject to certain exceptions, upon our issuance of additional shares of common stock. In such a case, THL, Oaktree and Wellington had, and will have, the right to acquire the amount of shares of common stock that will enable them to maintain their percentage ownership interest in the Corporation. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations and volatility. The stock markets have experienced high levels of volatility during the last few years. These market fluctuations have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations and volatility because of factors specifically related to our businesses and may continue to fluctuate or decline. Factors that could cause fluctuations, volatility or a decline in the market price of our common stock, many of which could be beyond our control, include the following: • uncertainties and developments related to the resolution of the Puerto Rico Government fiscal problems; • our ability to comply with the Regulatory Agreements; • any additional regulatory actions against us; • changes or perceived changes in the condition, operations, results or prospects of our businesses and market assessments of these changes or perceived changes; • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors, including any failures of banks; • changes in governmental regulations or proposals, or new governmental regulations or proposals, affecting us, including those relating to the financial crisis and global economic downturn and those that may be specifically directed to us; • a continuing recession in the Puerto Rico market and a lack of growth in our other principal markets in the Virgin Islands and the United States; • the departure of key employees; • changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us; and • the public perception of the banking industry and its safety and soundness. 40 In addition, the stock market in general, and the NYSE and the market for commercial banks and other financial services companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that sometimes have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. Our suspension of dividends may have adversely affected and may further adversely affect our stock price and could result in the expansion of our Board of Directors. In March 2009, the Federal Reserve Board issued a supervisory guidance letter intended to provide direction to BHCs on the declaration and payment of dividends, capital redemptions and capital repurchases by BHCs in the context of their capital planning process. The letter reiterates the long-standing Federal Reserve Board supervisory policies and guidance to the effect that BHCs should only pay dividends from current earnings. More specifically, the letter heightens expectations that BHCs will inform and consult with the Federal Reserve Board supervisory staff on the declaration and payment of dividends that exceed earnings for the period for which a dividend is being paid. In consideration of the financial results reported for the second quarter ended June 30, 2009, we decided, as a matter of prudent fiscal management and following the Federal Reserve Board guidance, to suspend the payment of dividends. Furthermore, our Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve Board precludes us from declaring any dividends without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. We cannot anticipate if and when the payment of dividends might be reinstated. This suspension may have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our stock price. Further, because dividends on our Series A through E Preferred Stock have not been paid since we suspended dividend payments in August 2009, the holders of the preferred stock have the right to appoint two additional members to our Board of Directors. Any member of the Board of Directors appointed by the holders of Series A through E Preferred Stock is required to vacate his or her office if the Corporation resumes the payment of dividends in full for twelve consecutive monthly dividend periods. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 