Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We may be unable to sustain our revenue and cash flow growth despite the implementation of several initiatives designed to do so. We must expand our business and revenue in order to generate sufficient cash flow that, together with funds available under the Company’s credit facility, will be sufficient to fund our capital expenditures and our debt service requirements. Beginning in 2003, we pursued several growth initiatives, including: • increasing network investments in existing markets to expand our network reach; and • launching new products and services, especially products and services that support customers’ data and IP initiatives. Our ability to manage this expansion depends on many factors, including our ability to: • attract new customers and sell new services to existing customers; • acquire and install transmission facilities and related equipment at reasonable costs; • employ new technologies; • obtain required permits and rights-of-way; • enhance our financial, operating, and information systems to effectively manage our growth; and • accurately predict and manage the cost and timing of our capital expenditure programs. There is no assurance that these initiatives will continue to result in an improvement in our financial position or our results of operations. We have historically incurred net losses even during periods of increasing revenue, and we expect those losses to continue for the foreseeable future. Several customers account for a significant portion of our revenue, and some of our customers’ purchases may not continue due to customer consolidations, financial difficulties or other factors. We have substantial business relationships with a few large customers, especially other carriers. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 32% of our total revenue. The highly competitive environment in the long haul carrier sector, including interexchange carriers, has challenged the financial condition and growth prospects of some of our carrier customers and could lead to further reductions in our revenue in the future. Replacing this revenue with new revenue from other carrier customers or with enterprise customer revenue may be difficult. Among other factors, individual enterprise customers tend to place smaller service orders than some of our larger carrier customers. In addition, pricing pressure on some of our more mature products may challenge our ability to grow our revenue. Some of our service agreements with customers are subject to termination on short notice and do not require the customer to maintain the services at current levels. Customers may not continue to purchase the same services or level of services. We have experienced significant service disconnections since 2001 due to customer bankruptcies, customers contracting their operations, price competition from other carriers for certain services, consolidation of carrier customers and customers optimizing their existing networks. A number of our customers are other telecommunications carriers and Internet service providers, which are sectors that have been particularly depressed over the past six years. In addition, there has been increasing consolidation in the telecommunications industry in recent years, and if any of our customers are acquired we may lose a significant portion of their business. SBC’s merger with AT&T Corp. could result in the surviving company, now known as AT&T Inc., buying less local transport service from us in SBC’s service area in the long run, and AT&T Inc.’s recently announced acquisition of BellSouth Corp., if consummated, could result in AT&T Inc. purchasing less 18 transport from us in BellSouth’s service area in the long run. In addition, revenue from a wireless carrier that was recently acquired is likely to decrease significantly in the future as a result of the acquisition. The combined revenue from this wireless carrier consolidation accounted for approximately 5% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005, some portion of which we may lose. In the past, primarily during 2002 and 2003, a number of our customers have filed bankruptcy proceedings, including MCI. In connection with those proceedings, customers in bankruptcy may choose to assume or reject their contracts with us. If they choose to reject those contracts, our only recourse is an unsecured claim for rejection damages that is likely to result in little or no compensation to us for the lost revenue. We continue to experience customer and service disconnects in the normal course of business primarily associated with customer network optimization, cost cutting, business contractions, bankruptcies or other financial difficulties, or price competition from other providers. Disconnects represented 2.0%, 1.5%, and 1.2% of monthly revenue in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. While we expect that some customers will continue to disconnect services due to the reasons mentioned above, we cannot predict the total impact on revenue from these disconnects. Our substantial existing debt and debt service requirements could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations under our debt. We have been carrying substantial amounts of debt, and our level of debt may affect our operations and our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness. Subject to certain covenants in our credit agreement and the indentures for each of our outstanding series of senior notes, we may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2005, our total long term debt and capital lease obligations were approximately $1.2 billion. Our substantial indebtedness could have several important effects on us. For example: • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other corporate purposes may be limited; • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns or other adverse developments than less leveraged competitors; and • our ability to withstand competitive pressure may decrease. Our revolving credit facility and term loan B and the indentures relating to each outstanding series of our senior notes contain restrictive covenants that may limit our flexibility, and breach of those covenants may cause us to be in default under those agreements. The credit agreement for our revolving credit facility and term loan B limits, and the indentures relating to each outstanding series of our senior notes also limit, and in some circumstances prohibit, our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends; • make capital expenditures, investments or other restricted payments; • engage in sale-leaseback transactions; • engage in transactions with stockholders and affiliates; • guarantee debts; • create liens; • sell assets; 19 • issue or sell capital stock of subsidiaries; and • engage in mergers and acquisitions. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. In addition, if we do not comply with these covenants and financial covenants in our credit agreement that require us to maintain certain minimum financial ratios, the indebtedness outstanding under our credit agreement, and by reason of cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions, our senior notes and any other outstanding indebtedness we may then have, could become immediately due and payable. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the credit agreement could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation proceeding or proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the lenders under our credit agreement were to accelerate the repayment of outstanding borrowings, we might not have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness. In addition, the lenders under our credit agreement could refuse to lend funds if we are not in compliance with our financial covenants. We could fail to comply with the covenants in the future due to many factors, including losses of revenue due to customer disconnects or other factors or reduction in margins due to pricing pressures or rising costs. We will require substantial capital to expand our operations. The development and expansion of our networks requires substantial capital investment. If this capital is not available when needed, our business will be adversely affected. Our 2005 capital expenditures were $162.5 million, and our estimate of our 2006 capital expenditures is $165 million to $175 million. We also expect to have substantial capital expenditures thereafter. Our wholly-owned subsidiary has a senior secured revolving credit facility that, subject to certain conditions, allows us to borrow up to $110 million. We may be required to seek additional financing if: • our business plans and cost estimates are inaccurate; • we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, fund our capital expenditures and finance our business operations; • we decide to significantly accelerate the expansion of our business and existing networks; or • we consummate acquisitions or joint ventures or other strategic transactions that require incremental capital. If we were to seek additional financing, the terms offered may place significant limits on our financial and operating flexibility, or may not be acceptable to us. The failure to raise sufficient funds if needed and on reasonable terms may require us to modify or significantly curtail our business plan. This could have a material adverse impact on our growth, ability to compete, and ability to service our debt. We may complete a significant business combination or other transaction that could increase our shares outstanding, and may result in a change in control, and which may also affect our leverage. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other arrangements that would extend our geographic markets, expand our services, enlarge the capacity of our networks or increase the types of services provided through our networks. If we enter into a definitive agreement with respect to any acquisition, joint venture or other arrangement, we may require additional financing that could result in an increase in our leverage, result in a change of control, increase the number of outstanding shares, or all of these effects. A substantial transaction may require the consent of our lenders. There can be no assurance that we will enter into any transaction or, if we do, on what terms. In addition, the success of any significant acquisition or business combination is dependent, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate the acquired business into ours, which also carries substantial risks. 20 We have experienced reductions in switched access and reciprocal compensation revenue as a result of regulatory rate reform, and we may experience further such reductions in the future. Over the past several years FCC regulations have reduced our interstate access revenue as well as our reciprocal compensation revenue associated with the exchange of dial-up ISP-bound traffic. The FCC has been considering proposals for an integrated intercarrier compensation regime under which all traffic exchanged between carriers would be subject to a unified rate, possibly including “bill and keep” (i.e., traffic would be exchanged without charge). Such charges could materially reduce our switched access or reciprocal compensation revenue. Proposals that include a single rate are likely to impact only switched access revenue. Such a regime would likely create an opportunity for us to recover some, but not all, lost intercarrier compensation revenue directly from end users. Switched access and reciprocal compensation together have been declining over time and represented 8% of our 2003 revenue, 6% of our 2004 revenue, and 5% of our 2005 revenue. Even without a significant change in FCC regulations, we anticipate that the contribution to revenue and Modified EBITDA from these services will continue to decline over time due to the decline in minutes terminated over our network as Internet service provider customers disconnect primary rate interface services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compensate for the reduction in switched access and/or reciprocal compensation revenue with other revenue sources or increased volume. We may be adversely affected by changes in the regulation of special access services. We provide special access services in competition with ILECs, and we also purchase special access services from ILECs to extend the reach of our network. A significant change in the regulations governing special access services could result in either significant reductions in the special access prices charged by our ILEC competitors or in the elimination of regulations that increase the likelihood that ILECs will sell us special access on reasonable terms and conditions. In 2002, AT&T Corp. filed a petition at the FCC asserting that ILEC special access prices are unreasonably high and that the FCC must prescribe lower rates while it conducts a proceeding to review the appropriate framework for regulating ILEC special access prices. On January 31, 2005, the FCC released an order in which it denied AT&T’s request that it prescribe lower rates and a notice of proposed rulemaking in which it proposes the adoption of new regulations that could eventually result in significant reductions in ILEC special access prices. If such price reductions were to occur, we would experience increased downward pressure on the prices we charge for special access services. With respect to special access services that we purchase from ILECs, those carriers have argued before the FCC that their broadband services, including special access services, should no longer be subject to regulation governing price and quality of service. In August 2005, the FCC adopted an order in the Wireline Broadband Internet Access proceeding that classified wireline broadband Internet Access services, including the underlying transmission facilities, as information services not subject to regulation as telecommunications services. However, the FCC specifically excluded from this classification special access and ethernet transmission services we require for off-net building access. These services will remain subject to regulation as telecommunications services. Further, in the recent orders approving the SBC/AT&T and Verizon/MCI mergers, the FCC conditioned its approval upon the two companies not increasing their rates for special access for a period of 30 months, which will provide us with a period of price stability. We have advocated before the FCC that it should modify its special access pricing flexibility rules so that these services return to price-cap regulation to protect against unreasonable price increases. The FCC is expected to rule on this matter before the expiration of the 30-month period. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to obtain special access service on reasonable terms and conditions. We may be adversely affected by changes to the Communications Act. Congress will likely consider adopting significant revisions to the Communications Act at some point over the next several years. As part of that process, Congress is likely to consider proposals for new statutory provisions requiring intercarrier compensation reform and the deregulation of incumbent local exchange 21 broadband services (including the elimination of the incumbent local exchange carriers’ unbundling obligations and regulations governing special access services). The adoption of a new intercarrier compensation regime and the deregulation of ILEC broadband service would pose the risks described above regarding analogous FCC action. The market for our services is highly competitive, and many of our competitors have significant advantages that may adversely affect our ability to compete with them. We operate in an increasingly competitive environment and some companies may have competitive advantages over us. Most ILECs offer substantially the same services as we offer, in some cases at higher prices and in some cases at lower prices. ILECs benefit from: • long-standing relationships with their customers; • greater financial and technical resources; • the ability to subsidize local services with revenue from unrelated businesses; and • recent regulatory decisions that decrease regulatory oversight of ILECs. Recent consolidations involving ILECs and others may result in fewer, but stronger competitors. Further consolidation would occur if AT&T Inc.’s proposed acquisition of BellSouth Corp. is consummated. We also face competition from other CLECs. We believe that weakness in the CLEC sector has led to price competition and downward pricing pressure as certain competitors seek to increase their short-term revenue by utilizing excess capacity for new sales. Our revenue and margins may also be reduced from price cutting by other telecommunications service providers that may require us to adjust prices for existing services upon contract renewals. In particular, we believe that in some of the markets in which we operate, the ILECs are pricing their business services more aggressively than in the past, which could adversely affect our future revenues and margins. We depend on key personnel for our current and future performance. Our current and future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel. The loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key employee could significantly harm us. We cannot assure you that we would be able to locate or employ qualified replacements on acceptable terms for senior management or key employees if their services are no longer available. We may be required to record additional impairment charges in the future. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP, we are required to review the carrying amounts of our assets to determine whether current events or circumstances warrant adjustments to those amounts. These determinations are based in part on our judgments regarding the cash flow potential of various assets, and involve projections that are inherently subject to change based on future events. If we conclude in the future that the cash flow potential of any of our assets is significantly less than we believed at the time of purchase, and that conclusion is based on a long-term rather than short-term trend, we may need to record an impairment charge. As a result of such an analysis, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $212.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2002 with respect to certain long haul network assets we acquired from GST Telecommunications, Inc. out of bankruptcy and certain other local network assets. Any additional impairment charges would have a negative impact on our earnings. Terrorism or other business disruptions could affect our future operating results. Our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected in the event of a catastrophic event such as a terrorist attack on the United States, or a major earthquake, fire, hurricane or similar 22 event that affects our central offices, corporate headquarters, network operations center or other facilities. Although we have implemented measures that are designed to mitigate the effects of a catastrophic event, we cannot predict the impact of such events. We depend on third party vendors for information systems. We have entered into agreements with vendors that provide for the development and operation of information technology systems such as billing systems. The failure of those vendors to perform their services in a timely and effective manner at acceptable costs could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to monitor costs, bill customers, provision customer orders, and achieve operating efficiencies. If we do not adapt to rapid changes in the telecommunications industry, we could lose customers or market share. The telecommunications industry continues to experience rapid and significant changes in technologies and architectures to deliver new services to customers. We expect that trend to continue into the foreseeable future. Additionally, we expect that these new technologies, such as voice over IP, will enable new applications that will facilitate new services both in the network as well as at customers’ premises. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate or adapt to these changes and integrate them into the infrastructure and operations of our business, in order to offer on a timely basis a service that meets customer needs and demands. Our failure to obtain and integrate new technologies and applications could impact the breadth of our product portfolio resulting in product gaps, a less differentiated product suite and a less compelling offer to customers, as well as having a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must obtain access to rights-of-way and pole attachments on reasonable terms and conditions. The development, expansion, and maintenance of our networks depend on, among other things, our ability to obtain rights-of-way and pole attachments as well as certain governmental authorizations and permits. In order to compete effectively, we must obtain such rights, authorizations and permits in a timely manner, at reasonable costs, and on satisfactory terms and conditions. Any increase in the difficulty or cost of obtaining these rights, authorizations or permits could adversely affect us, particularly in areas where we must compete with companies that already have the necessary permits and access. We currently license fiber optic capacity from Time Warner Cable and an affiliate of Advance/Newhouse in 23 of our markets, and we must reimburse Time Warner Cable and Advance/Newhouse for the license and franchise fees associated with the fiber optic capacity we license from them. In addition, in certain cities and municipalities where we provide network services over our own fiber optic facilities, we pay license or franchise fees for the use of public rights-of-way. The 1996 Act permits municipalities to charge these fees only if they are competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory, but certain municipalities may not conform their practices to the requirements of the 1996 Act in a timely manner or without legal challenge. We also face the risks that other cities may start imposing fees, fees will be increased, or franchises will not be renewed. Some of our franchise agreements also provide for increases or renegotiation of fees at certain intervals. Increases in fees may have a negative impact on our financial condition. Similarly, the owners of poles to which Time Warner Cable or Advance/Newhouse attach facilities for which we hold a license may seek to impose higher pole attachment fees based on certain regulatory decisions, and if the pole owners’ positions prevail we may be required to pay such increased fees under the terms of our capacity license with Time Warner Cable and Advance/Newhouse. An increase in pole attachment fees could have a negative impact on our financial condition. Time Warner Cable and Advance/Newhouse may terminate our capacity license before expiration upon: • a material impairment of the licensor’s ability to provide the license by law; • a material breach of the capacity license by us; or 23 • the institution of any proceedings to impose any public utility or common carrier status or obligations on the licensor, or any other proceedings challenging the licensor’s operating authority as a result of the services provided to us under the capacity license. If the capacity licenses are terminated prior to their scheduled expiration in 2028 or are not renewed, we may need to build, lease, or otherwise obtain fiber optic capacity. The terms of those arrangements may be materially less favorable to us than the terms of our existing capacity license. In addition, the capacity licenses prohibit us from offering residential services or content services utilizing the licensed capacity. Changes in accounting standards regarding stock option plans could limit the desirability of granting stock options, which could harm our ability to attract and retain employees and would also negatively impact our results of operations. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued Statement No. 123R, “Share-Based Payments,” or SFAS 123R, which requires all companies to treat the fair value of stock options granted to employees as an expense beginning January 1, 2006. Prior to the issuance of SFAS 123R, we were generally not required to record compensation expense in connection with stock option grants. The attractiveness to us of granting stock options will be reduced because of the additional expense we will be required to record in connection with these grants, which will negatively impact our results of operations. For example, if we had been required to expense stock option grants by applying the measurement provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” our recorded net loss for the year ended December 31, 2005 of $108.1 million and loss per share of $0.93 would have been a net loss of $123.7 million and loss per share of $1.06. Nevertheless, stock options are an important employee recruitment and retention tool, and we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel if we reduce the scope of our employee stock option program. Accordingly, our results of operations will be negatively impacted by SFAS 123R with respect to our unvested options as of the date of adoption and further as we continue to use stock options as an employee recruitment and retention tool. Risks Relating to Our Ownership Structure We are controlled by the Class B Stockholders. The Class B Stockholders hold all the outstanding shares of our Class B common stock. At December 31, 2005, the Time Warner Inc. stockholder group held 71% of our voting power and 43% of our outstanding common stock, and the Advance/Newhouse stockholder group held 22% of our voting power and 13% of our outstanding common stock. The Class B Stockholders generally have the collective ability to control all matters requiring stockholder approval. Our Board of Directors consists of nine director positions. Under a stockholders’ agreement, the Time Warner Inc. stockholder group has the right to designate four members for the board of directors, the Advance/Newhouse stockholder group has the right to designate one member, and the Class B Stockholders have the power to elect the other members of the board. Circumstances could arise in which the interests of the Class B Stockholders, as equity holders, could conflict with the interests of our Class A Stockholders. In addition, the Class B Stockholders may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings, and other transactions that could, in their judgment, enhance their investment, even though such transactions could impose risks on our Class A Stockholders and debt holders. Our Class B Stockholders are under no obligation to make any additional investments in us or to provide guaranties for debt financing by banks or other financing sources and we expect that they would be unwilling to do so. 24 Time Warner Inc. can sell control of us at any time, and sales by the Class B Stockholders could adversely affect us. The stockholders’ agreement among the Class B Stockholders provides that, subject to the rights of first refusal of the other holders of Class B common stock, the Class B Stockholders may transfer their Class B common stock. If a holder sells all, but not less than all, of its Class B common stock as shares of Class B common stock, such holder may transfer its right to nominate Class B nominees for election to the board of directors. In addition, Advance/Newhouse has the right to participate in certain sales by the Time Warner Inc. stockholder group of its Class B common stock and any Class A common stock Time Warner Inc. may own, or Advance/Newhouse may elect to sell its shares at any time in an unrelated transaction. Each Class B stockholder has registration rights that require us to file a registration statement upon the request of one or more Class B stockholders registering such stockholders’ sale of our common stock. Time Warner Inc. has engaged in the sale of non-strategic assets, and has indicated to us that it does not consider its investment in us to be strategic. Time Warner Inc. has informed us that it may monetize or otherwise dispose of its investment in us. A sale by Time Warner Inc. of some or all of its shares of our stock could adversely affect us in a variety of ways depending on the size of the transaction and whether it is done in the form of a sale of Class B common stock to a third party or as a sale of Class A common stock. Also, a change of control event as defined in our debt agreements could trigger a requirement that we repurchase some or all of our debt obligations. If Time Warner Inc. or Advance/Newhouse sold all or a substantial portion of its shares as a sale of Class A common stock and the other Class B stockholder retained its Class B shares, the remaining Class B stockholder would continue to control us. The sale of common stock by the Class B Stockholders could have other adverse impacts on our business that we cannot predict at this time. We do not know when Time Warner Inc. or Advance/Newhouse may engage in any such transaction. We may discontinue the use of the “Time Warner” name either because we decide to adopt a different brand or due to expiration of our trade name license agreement with Time Warner. We have been evaluating whether we want to continue to use the Time Warner Telecom name in the long term because of confusion in the markets also served by Time Warner Cable, which has also been selling business services for several years and may expand its competing services. See “The Class B Stockholders and their affiliates may compete with us” below. Our Trade Name License Agreement with Time Warner Inc. expires in July 2006. Time Warner Inc. has advised us that it intends to renew the agreement through July 2007 and to terminate the agreement thereafter. As a result, we would be required to change our name to one such as “TW Telecom” or some other name that does not include “Time Warner,” which would be consistent with our rebranding considerations. Time Warner Inc. has advised us that it would grant us a perpetual license to the “TW Telecom” trademark, under terms to be determined, if we choose to use that name, subject to automatic termination under certain circumstances to be defined in the license agreement. Although we believe that separate branding may be beneficial to our business, the impact on our business of a name change is uncertain and could be adverse. Each of the Class B Stockholders has veto rights over certain actions. Under our restated certificate of incorporation, as long as the outstanding Class B common stock represents at least 50% of the aggregate voting power of both classes of common stock outstanding, the approval of 100% of the Class B Stockholders is required: • to amend the restated certificate of incorporation, other than in connection with certain ministerial actions; or • for any direct or indirect disposition by us of capital stock of subsidiaries or assets that in either case represents substantially all our assets on a consolidated basis. The approval of 100% of the Class B Stockholders also is required for the issuance of any additional shares of Class B common stock or any capital stock having more than one vote per share. 25 The Class B Stockholders and their affiliates may compete with us. Both Time Warner Inc. and Advance/Newhouse are diversified communications providers. They are not restricted from competing with us. We are aware that an affiliate of Time Warner Inc. offers Internet access and data services for smaller and medium-sized business customers that we believe are similar to services that we offer to these customers and that Time Warner Cable has competed with us to gain business customers for transport services in some of our markets. They may, now or in the future, provide these or other services in competition with our services. On the other hand, a provision in our capacity license agreement with Time Warner Cable precludes us, until 2028, from utilizing fiber capacity licensed from Time Warner Cable or Advance/Newhouse to offer any residential services or providing any entertainment, information or content services without the consent of the Class B Stockholders in the service areas in which we license capacity from the Class B Stockholders. Our business may be adversely affected if the Class B Stockholders or their affiliates chose to expand their existing competing services or to offer additional competing services. Some of our directors may have conflicts of interest. Some of our directors are also directors, officers, or employees of the Class B Stockholders or their affiliates. Although these directors have fiduciary obligations to us under Delaware law, they may face conflicts of interest. For example, conflicts of interest may arise with respect to certain business opportunities available to, and certain transactions involving, us. The Class B Stockholders have not adopted any special voting procedures to deal with such conflicts of interest. The resolution of these conflicts may be unfavorable to us. Our restated certificate of incorporation provides for the allocation of corporate opportunities between the Class B Stockholders and us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 26 