D. Risk factors The continuing global economic and financial crisis. The global economic and financial market crisis that began in 2008 continues to cause, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy and reduced consumer spending, all of which has had and will continue to have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Demand for our products depends in large part upon the level of capital and maintenance expenditures by many of our customers and end users. Recent economic conditions have reduced the willingness or ability of our customers and prospective customers to commit funds to purchase our products and services, and may reduce their ability to pay for our products and services after purchase. Similarly, our suppliers may not be able to supply us with needed components on a timely basis, may increase prices or go out of business, which could result in our inability to meet customer demand, fulfill our contractual obligations or affect our gross margins. We cannot predict the timing or duration of these negative market conditions or the timing or strength of any economic recovery. If the economy or markets in which we operate remain weak or deteriorate further, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely impacted. Inflation and increased labor costs. The economy of China has been experiencing significant growth, leading to inflation concerns and increased labor costs. We generate all revenues from sales of products that we manufacture at our facilities in the PRC. The economy in China has grown significantly over the past 20 years, which has resulted in an increase in inflation and the average cost of labor, especially in the coastal cities. China’s overall economy and the average wage in the PRC are expected to continue to grow. Increases in China’s inflation and material increases in the cost of labor would diminish our competitive advantage and, unless we are able to pass on these increased labor costs to our customers by increasing prices for our products and services, our profitability and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Credit terms in the PRC. Some of the Company’s major customers in the PRC are granted credit terms of up to 210 days; however, receivables for some of the Company’s customers may extend beyond the stated credit terms. An increase in receivables that extend beyond stated credit terms could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. Dependence on major customers. In fiscal 2012, over 97.1% of our sales of home appliances were to one customer, the Electrolux Group. In January 2012, the Company completed its exit from the home appliances business, at which time production of all floor care products was discontinued. Consequently, the Company does not expect its relationship with Electrolux to continue beyond fiscal 2012. For a more detailed discussion of the Company’s exit from the home appliances business, see Item 4.A—“Information on the Company—Recent Developments—Discontinued Operations” on page 11 of this annual report. Our five largest Electronic Components and EMS customers represent 82.6% and 100.0% of net sales of their respective segments, and 64.5% and 20.7% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2012, respectively. We have no contractual arrangements with these customers and only sell to them based on purchase orders received. We expect that a limited number of customers will continue to represent a substantial portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. The loss of any of our major customers or a decrease or delay in orders or anticipated spending by such customers could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. Our largest customers could also engage in business combinations, which could increase their size, reduce their demand for our products as they recognize synergies or rationalize assets and increase or decrease the portion of our total sales concentration to any single customer. 4 Table of Contents Penalties for workforce reductions. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted new labor law legislation called the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. It formalizes workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions. Considered one of the strictest labor laws in the world, among other things, this new law requires an employer to conclude an “open-ended employment contract” with any employee who either has worked for the employer for 10 years or more or has had two consecutive fixed-term contracts. An “open-ended employment contract” is in effect a lifetime, permanent contract, which is terminable only in specified circumstances, such as a material breach of the employer’s rules and regulations, or for a serious dereliction of duty. Under the new law, downsizing by 20% or more of an individual entity may occur only under specified circumstances, such as a restructuring undertaken pursuant to China’s Enterprise Bankruptcy Law, or where a company suffers serious difficulties in production and/or business operations. Also, in the event of a lay off of more than 20 employees at one time, the entity is required to communicate with its labor union and report to the District Labor Bureau. As discussed elsewhere in this annual report, we discontinued our home appliance business in January 2012 and all employees formerly assigned to the home appliance segment were released. The reduction in the Company’s workforce was achieved in full compliance with the Labor Contract Law and we do not anticipate the assessment of any penalties a result of our exit from the home appliance business. PRC Social Insurance Law. In October 2010, China promulgated the Social Insurance Law of the People’s Republic of China (the “Social Insurance Law”), which became effective as of July 1, 2011. Before its promulgation, China’s social insurance policies were implemented through a web of rules and regulations at both national and local levels. The Law unifies previous, scattered laws that relate to social insurance matters. The Social Insurance Law expressly clarifies that the social insurance system in China includes pension insurance, medical insurance, unemployment insurance, work-related injury insurance and maternity insurance, all of which are mandatory for employees of companies operating in the PRC. Both employers and employees are required to make contributions for pension, medical and unemployment insurance, while only employers are required to make contributions for work-related injury insurance and maternity insurance. The Social Insurance Law does not specify the contribution rates or the basis for calculating each kind of social insurance, which leaves room for local governments to implement the Social Insurance Law based upon their local economic realities and consistent with the national policy. Currently, contribution rates are determined at the provincial or municipal level and many local governments have not yet established contribution rates. Previously, the Company adhered to a policy of accruing and expensing social insurance premiums equivalent to two years of such costs, without regard to actual payments. The Company has assessed the potential for retroactive application of the Social Insurance Law and concluded that such retroactive application is neither likely nor calculable. In prior years, new accruals were offset by a resulting reversal of accruals made two years prior. However, should the local government rates or applicability ultimately differ from those used by the Company, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and financial condition. In fiscal 2012, in connection with our exit from the home appliance business, previous accruals for the home appliance segment were reversed to offset severance and other costs relating to the elimination of employees previously assigned to the home appliance business. Cost and availability of labor. There is an emerging trend of a shortage of supply of migrant workers in China, particularly in Guangdong Province where our factory is located. Both in numbers and in skill, the labor force in China cannot keep up with the current speed of economic development and labor organizations have begun to initiate industrial action to raise wages. We continually adjust salaries and fringe benefits in order to attract and retain an adequate labor force. This trend of labor shortages is expected to continue and will likely result in further increases in wages as companies seek to retain their existing work forces. In the coming year, we expect that both a potential shortage of labor and increasing costs will impact our manufacturing operations, which could adversely affect gross margins. Cancellation or delays in purchase orders placed by our customers. Sales to our customers are primarily based on purchase orders and forecasts we receive. We generally purchase and stock components upon receiving orders; however, we will purchase components for certain customers based on their rolling forecasts. We are required to purchase components on an occasional or continuous basis in the expectation of receiving purchase orders for products that use such components. In the event the actual orders are delayed or cancelled, we would have increased inventory levels or possible write-downs of our inventory that could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Foreign sales, operations and assets. Substantially all of our products are currently manufactured in China and over 98% of the net book value of our total long-lived assets is located there. We sell products to companies based principally in China, Europe and North America. Consequently, our international operations and sales may be subject to the following risks, among others: • political and economic risks, including political instability, currency controls and exchange rate fluctuations; • changes in import/export regulations; 5 Table of Contents • changes in the rate of inflation; • changes in tariff and freight rates; and • changes in tax rates. In particular, changes in tariff structures or other trade policies could adversely affect our customers or suppliers or decrease our competitors’ costs of production. Government regulation. Our operations and assets in China are subject to significant political, economic, legal and other uncertainties. Any of the following could result from policy changes by the Chinese government and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition: • legal or regulatory changes, or changes in interpretation of current laws or regulations; • new labor laws restricting flexibility in employment and added social security costs; • confiscatory or increased taxation; • restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply; • import duties; • currency devaluations; or • expropriation of private enterprise. Under its current leadership, the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies, including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. In 2001, China was admitted to the World Trade Organization (“WTO”), and is now entitled to the full trading rights afforded a WTO member country. There can be no assurance, however, that China will continue to pursue and implement favorable economic reform policies, that such policies will be successful if pursued or that such policies will not be significantly altered from time to time without prior notice. The municipal authorities in each township in China have a certain amount of discretion to impose or waive a large number of fees and taxes including value-added tax, stamp duty, licenses and permits. In the Company’s manufacturing location, it is subject to the laws and regulations of the township of Dongguan, Guangdong Province and the PRC. To the extent the government authorities decide to exercise their discretion to increase or impose new fees, our operations could be materially affected. Change in PRC taxation. Under PRC tax law before 2008, the Company was subject to a lower overall effective tax rate than some U.S. domiciled corporations because of the location of its business operations. However, on March 16, 2007, the Chinese government enacted a unified enterprise income tax law or EIT, which became effective on January 1, 2008. Prior to the EIT, as a foreign invested enterprise, or “FIE,” some of our subsidiaries enjoyed preferential tax treatment. Under the EIT, most domestic enterprises and FIEs are subject to a single PRC enterprise income tax rate of 25%. One of our subsidiaries in China is qualified as a High and New Technology Enterprise (“HNTE”) and subject to a preferential tax rate of 15% effective January 1, 2012 as long as it retains its HNTE classification. We base our tax position upon the anticipated nature and conduct of our business and upon our understanding of the tax laws of the various administrative regions and countries in which we have assets or conduct activities. However, our tax position is subject to review and possible challenge by the tax authorities and to possible changes in law, which may have retroactive effect. We cannot determine in advance the extent to which some jurisdictions may require us to pay taxes or make payments in lieu of taxes, which could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. PRC taxation on deemed income. The PRC tax authorities could determine that any inter-company payable account in accordance with the PRC GAAP could be deemed income if such inter-company payables cannot be settled and therefore subject to taxation. In accordance with FIN 48, we evaluated our position and determined that such inter-company payables will be settled, and particularly, since prior year tax assessment have been confirmed with the PRC tax authorities, deeming such inter-company payables as income is not likely. However, if the PRC tax authorities deem our inter-company payables of our PRC subsidiaries as income, it would have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. PRC taxation on worldwide income. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law and be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The EIT Law provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on their worldwide income. Under the implementation regulations for the EIT Law issued by the PRC State Council, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. Also, on April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Tax (“SAT”) issued a Tax Circular, Guoshuifa [2009] No. 82, Notice on the Recognition of Overseas Incorporated Domestically Controlled Enterprises as PRC Resident Enterprises Based on the Place of Effective Management Criteria , or Circular 82, with retrospective effect from 1 January 2008. According to Circular 82, any 6 Table of Contents enterprise established under the law of a country or region other than the PRC but whose main investor is a PRC enterprise or Group shall be recognized as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes if all the following criteria are met: (i) the senior executives responsible for its daily production or business operations and the place where such responsibilities are carried out are mainly located in China; (ii) decisions about its finances (such as borrowing, lending, financing and managing financial risk) and human resources (such as staff recruitment, termination, and remuneration policies) are made or approved by organizations or individuals located in China; (iii) its major properties, accounting books and records, company seal, board minutes and resolutions, shareholders’ meeting minutes, etc. are kept in China; and (iv) 50% or more of its voting directors or its senior executives habitually reside in China. The principle of “substance over form” applies when determining the place of effective management. Although Circular 82 was issued to regulate the PRC tax resident judgment of companies established overseas and controlled by PRC companies, which is not applicable in our case, the criteria in Circular 82 should be used as a reference to the SAT’s view on this issue. We believe the risk of being recognized as a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law is very low. If we are treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our results of operations. Potential taxes on dividends and sale of our stock. Under the EIT Law and implementation regulations issued by the State Council, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent that such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of shares by such investors is also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” it is unclear whether dividends we pay with respect to our common shares, or the gain our investors may realize from the transfer of our common shares, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if our investors are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our common shares, the value of their investment in common shares may be materially and adversely affected. Passive foreign investment company. Based on our financial statements, relevant market data and the projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, we do not believe that we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for fiscal 2012, and we do not expect to be a PFIC in fiscal 2013 or to become one in the foreseeable future, although there can be no assurance in this regard. If, however, we become a passive foreign investment company, such characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our investors if they are a U.S. investor. For example, if we become a PFIC, our U.S. investors will become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor holds our common shares, unless the U.S. investor made a mark-to-market election, the U.S. investor would be subject to special tax rules with respect to any “excess distribution” received and any gain realized from a sale or other disposition, including a pledge, of common shares. Distributions received in a taxable year that are greater than 125% of the average annual distributions received during the shorter of the three preceding taxable years or a U.S. investor’s holding period for the common shares will be treated as excess distributions. Under these special tax rules: • the excess distribution or gain will be allocated ratably over the U.S. investor’s holding period for the common shares, • the amount allocated to the current taxable year, and any taxable year prior to the first taxable year in which we were a PFIC, will be treated as ordinary income, and • the amount allocated to each other year will be subject to tax at the highest tax rate in effect for that year and the interest charge generally applicable to underpayments of tax will be imposed on the resulting tax attributable to each such year. In addition, non-corporate U.S. investors will not be eligible for reduced rates of taxation on any dividends received from us in taxable years beginning prior to January 1, 2013, if we are a PFIC in the taxable year in which such dividends are paid or in the preceding taxable year. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes if either: (i) 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year is passive income, or (ii) the average percentage of our assets (which include cash) by (determined on a quarterly average) value in a taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income (which includes cash) is at least 50%. The calculation of the value of our assets will be based, in part, on the then prevailing market value of our common shares, which is subject to change. We cannot assure that we will not be a PFIC for 2013 or any future taxable year. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Consequences.” Security of bank accounts in the PRC. The Company has a number of bank accounts in the PRC to satisfy lines of credit, exchange regulations and banking facilities and to support its operations. None of these accounts are insured by the government. In the event of a credit crisis in the PRC, our accounts would be vulnerable to loss, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 7 Table of Contents Unsecured cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. We have cash and short-term cash equivalent instruments, available-for-sale investments which are invested with third party financial institutions that may not be insured or exceed the insurance limits of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) or other government insurance agencies. While we make an effort to monitor the cash balances in our operating accounts and adjust the cash balances as appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or become subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. We have not experienced any loss in our cash and cash equivalents to date or lack of access to cash in our operating accounts. We also invest excess cash in immediately available and short-term interest bearing cash equivalent instruments. If a commercial bank or financial institution in which we have our funds deposited should become insolvent or be taken over by the FDIC or other governmental insurance agencies, we could have significant unrecoverable cash deposits. A loss in cash deposits would have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. New products and rapid technological change. The technology incorporated in many of our products, particularly consumer electronics, is characterized by rapid change in the marketplace. In addition, the emergence of new technologies can quickly render existing products obsolete or unmarketable. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards or consumer demand and successfully develop and introduce new or enhanced products that gain market acceptance will be a critical factor in our ability to grow and remain competitive. There can be no assurance that we will timely or successfully complete the development of new or enhanced products or successfully manage the transition from one product release to the next, or that our future products will achieve market acceptance. The failure to realize such goals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Proprietary technology; patent protection. We rely on a combination of internal procedures, nondisclosure agreements, intellectual property rights assignment agreements, as well as licenses, patents, trademarks and copyright law to protect our intellectual property and know-how. Our intellectual property rights may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. For example, we frequently explore and evaluate potential relationships and projects with other parties, which often requires that we provide the potential partner with confidential technical information. While confidentiality agreements are typically put in place, there is a risk the potential partner could violate the confidentiality agreement and use our technical information for its own benefit or the benefit of others or compromise the confidentiality. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products may be sold or manufactured do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. For example, laws in China may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States. Failure or inability to protect our proprietary information could result in a decrease in our sales or profitability. The protection of our intellectual property may require expensive investment in protracted litigation and the investment of substantial management time and there is no assurance we ultimately would prevail or that a successful outcome would lead to an economic benefit that is greater than the investment in the litigation. In addition, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property rights and know-how without our authorization or from independently developing intellectual property that is the same as or similar to ours, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in the United States. We compete in a number of industries that are small or specialized, which makes it easier for a competitor to monitor our activities and increases the risk that ideas will be stolen. The unauthorized use of our know-how by third parties could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, cause us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business or increase our expenses as we attempt to enforce our rights. Potential patent infringement or similar claims. Although it is our intention to avoid infringing or otherwise violating the intellectual property rights of others, third parties may nevertheless claim (and in the past have claimed) that our processes and products infringe their intellectual property and other rights. Our strategy of developing new innovative products across multiple business lines presented significant infringement claim risks both internationally and in the United States. We compete with other companies for contracts in some small or specialized industries, which increases the risk that the other companies will develop overlapping technologies leading to an increased possibility that infringement claims will arise. Whether or not these claims have merit, we may be subject to costly and time-consuming legal proceedings, and this could divert our management’s attention from operating our businesses. In order to resolve such proceedings, we may need to obtain licenses from these third parties or substantially re-engineer or rename our products in order to avoid infringement. In addition, we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re-engineer or rename our products successfully. Product liability. We may be subject to substantial product liability costs if claims arise out of problems associated with our products. We provide a warranty for limited manufacturing defects to certain of our customers. We do not provide warranties, however, that extend to the ultimate consumers of the product. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to a suit by a consumer who uses one of our products if the product causes an injury to any person or does not perform properly. We maintain product liability insurance in an amount we believe is sufficient. There can be no assurance, however, that our insurance coverage will be adequate or that all product liability claims will be covered by our current product liability insurance. In addition, these policies must be renewed annually. To date, we have not been subject to any material product liability claim. While we have been able to obtain product liability insurance in the past, premiums continue to increase in cost and may not be available in the future on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The failure to maintain insurance coverage, or a successful claim against us not covered by or in 8 Table of Contents excess of the insurance coverage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, product liability claims, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, may have a material adverse effect on our business reputation. Product safety; delays in regulatory approval. Prior to the commercial introduction of our products into the market, we always obtain approval of our products by at least one of the organizations engaged in testing product safety and/or other appropriate agencies. The application process for securing these approvals requires a significant commitment of time and resources by our technical staff and could delay the introduction of our products. Our inability to obtain regulatory approval within the projected timeframe for commercial introduction of our products or other product introduction delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks of manufacturing in China; property damage. All of our products are manufactured at our factory complex located in Dongguan, China. In addition to the political and economic risks of operations in China, firefighting and disaster relief assistance in China is not as sophisticated as in certain Western countries. We currently maintain property damage insurance in the aggregate of approximately $105.5 million which covers our inventory, furniture, equipment, machinery and buildings and also maintain business interruption insurance in the aggregate of approximately $20.3 million for losses relating to our factory. Material damage to, or the loss of, our facilities due to fire, severe weather, flood, force majeure or other act of God or cause, even if insured against, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Impact of environmental regulations. We are subject to Chinese laws that regulate environmental quality, the utilization of natural resources and the reduction of pollution. Environmental regulation in China is currently evolving and could become more stringent or more stringently enforced in the future, which could require us to make substantial additional capital expenditures in the future to maintain compliance. As a manufacturer, we are subject to annual inspections by the local branch of the State Environment Protection Administration (“SEPA”). Although compliance with environmental regulations has not had a material adverse effect on us in the past, failure to comply with these laws or to pass an inspection in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Dependence on distributions from operating subsidiaries and currency fluctuation. We have no direct business operations, other than our ownership of our subsidiaries. If we decide to pay dividends in the future, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations would depend upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and our other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries may also be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including, among others, restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions, particularly as it relates to our PRC subsidiaries. Since we do not engage in hedging or other similar transactions, extraordinary currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Concentration of ownership. Wing Shing Holdings Company Limited, a British Virgin Islands company (“Wing Shing Holdings”), directors and family members of directors of the Company beneficially own approximately 67.3% of our outstanding common shares (issued net of treasury shares). The share ownership of Wing Shing Holdings is held 44.0% by the estate of Kwong Ho Sham who prior to his passing, served as the Chairman of the Company’s Board of Directors, and 56.0% by our Chief Executive Officer, John Sham, who, currently serves as a director. Voting control of Wing Shing Holdings is effectively held by John Sham. As a result, Wing Shing Holdings and its shareholders and their family members are in a position to control our activities and policies, including possessing the voting power to elect our board of directors and approve all matters requiring shareholder approval and the ability to generally direct our affairs. In June 2011, Kwong Ho Sham established a trust that would own his portion of Wing Shing Holdings’ shares in the Company. Upon his passing, 303,070 shares currently owned by Wing Shing Holdings would go into this trust and 385,727 shares owned by Wing Shing Holdings would be transferred to John C.K. Sham. As of July 24, 2012, the transfers had not been officially executed but are expected to occur during fiscal 2013. John C.K. Sham, as a trustee of his father’s charitable trust, declines beneficial ownership of any of the trust’s shares. Unexpected loss of our C.E.O. or other key personnel. Our continued growth and success requires us to hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and other highly skilled personnel. The unexpected loss of our Chief Executive Officer, John C.K. Sham, turnover in key personnel, or our failure to develop and implement an adequate succession plan to backfill current leadership could deplete our institutional knowledge base, erode our competitive advantage and jeopardize our continued viability. Service and enforcement of legal process. We are organized under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. All but two of our directors and executive officers reside outside the United States, and most of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for investors to effect service of process on these persons within the United States or to enforce against these persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts, including judgments predicated on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. In particular, judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States may be difficult to enforce in British Virgin Islands courts and it is uncertain whether British Virgin Islands courts will enter judgments in original actions brought in British Virgin Islands courts predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. 9 Table of Contents British Virgin Islands company. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the International Business Companies Act of the British Virgin Islands. Principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of our shareholders may differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in the United States or another jurisdiction. The rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as are the rights of shareholders in many other jurisdictions. Thus, our shareholders may have more relative difficulty protecting their interests against certain actions by our board of directors or principal shareholders than similarly situated shareholders of a corporation incorporated in another jurisdiction. Please see details under “Item 10—Additional Information.” Director actions without shareholder approval. Under our memorandum and articles of association and the laws of the British Virgin Islands, our memorandum and articles of association may be amended by our board of directors without shareholder approval. This includes: • increasing or reducing our authorized capital; • authorizing the issuance of different classes of shares, including preference shares; and • increasing or reducing the par value of our shares. Our ability to amend our memorandum and articles of association by a resolution of directors or a resolution of members could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of the Company without any further action by the shareholders including, but not limited to, a tender offer to purchase our common shares at a premium over then current market prices. Our status as a foreign private issuer. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended (the “Exchange Act”). As such, we are exempt from certain of the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act and corporate governance standards of the Nasdaq Stock Market (“Nasdaq”). Because of these exemptions, investors are not afforded the same protection or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States or traded on the Nasdaq. However, Nasdaq does not exempt foreign private issuers from independent audit committee requirements and we are required to disclose any significant ways our current corporate governance practices differ from those followed by domestic companies under Nasdaq listing standards. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer must notify Nasdaq if one of our executive officers becomes aware of any material non-compliance with any applicable Nasdaq corporate governance listing standards to Nasdaq. Please see “Item 16G—Corporate Governance” for more information. Reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. No treaty exists between Hong Kong and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. Accordingly, Hong Kong courts might not enforce judgments predicated on the federal securities laws of the United States, whether arising from actions brought in the United States or, if permitted, in Hong Kong. Delisting of our common shares. Our Common Stock is currently quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market. The Company must satisfy certain minimum listing maintenance requirements to maintain such quotation, including a series of financial tests relating to shareholders equity or net income or market value, public float, number of market makers and shareholders, market capitalization, and maintaining a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for the Common Stock. If our Common Stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market, then our Common Stock may trade on the Over-the-Counter-Bulletin Board, which is viewed by most investors as a less desirable and less liquid market place. Delisting from The Nasdaq Global Market could make trading our Common Stock more difficult and increase expenses for the Company to raise additional capital and may have an adverse impact on the overall value of our Common Stock. Inherent limitation on Internal Control. Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives because of its inherent limitations. Internal control over financial reporting is a process that involves human diligence and compliance and is subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Internal control over financial reporting also can be circumvented by collusion or improper management decision. Because of such limitations, there is a risk that material misstatements may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by internal control over financial reporting. However, these inherent limitations are known features of the financial reporting process. Therefore, it may be possible to design into the process safeguards to reduce, though not eliminate, this risk. Inherent uncertainty in preparation of financial statements. The consolidated and condensed consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the SEC are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to changes in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents 