Item 1A. Risk Factors Our achievement of projected revenue and earnings targets in 2008 and beyond is dependent on our ability to successfully implement our strategic goals. We have adopted a business plan aimed at increasing our revenues during 2008. We expect this will be achieved through increased market penetration of existing products, greater pull-through in our branch network, commercialization of new products and strategic acquisitions. If we are unable to effectively execute these plans, our revenue and earnings could be lower than anticipated. Our ability to effectively execute these plans could be adversely affected if our business assumptions do not prove to be accurate or if adverse changes occur in our business environment, such as: potential declines or increased volatility in oil and natural gas prices that would adversely affect our customers and the energy industry causing a deferral or cancellation of spending plans; reduction in rig activity; reduction in prices or demand for our products and services; general global economic and business conditions; our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions; our ability to generate technological advances and compete on the basis of our technology; the potential for unexpected litigation or regulatory proceedings; and potential higher prices for products used by us in our operations. Competition could result in reduced profitability and loss of market share. Contracts for our products and services are generally awarded on a competitive basis. Historically, our markets have been very competitive in terms of the number of suppliers providing alternative products and technologies. The most important factors considered by our customers in awarding contracts include: the availability and capabilities of our equipment, our ability to meet the customer’s delivery schedule, price, our reputation, our technology, our experience and our safety record. In addition, we may encounter obstacles in our international operations that impair our ability to compete in individual countries. These obstacles may include: subsidies granted in favor of local companies; legal requirements for local content; taxes, import duties and fees imposed on foreign operators; contracts being denominated in local currencies; lower wage rates in foreign countries; and fluctuations in the exchange value of the United States dollar compared with the local currency. Any or all these factors could adversely affect our ability to compete and thus adversely affect our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our international operations may experience interruptions due to political and economic risks. We operate our business and market our products and services throughout the world. We are, therefore, subject to the risks customarily attendant to international operations and investments in foreign countries. Moreover, oil and gas producing regions in which we conduct business include many countries in the Middle East, West Africa, Venezuela and other parts of the world where risks to operations remain high. We cannot accurately predict whether these risks will increase or abate. These risks include: nationalization; expropriation; war, terrorism and civil disturbances; restrictive actions by local governments; limitations on repatriation of earnings; changes in foreign tax laws; changes in banking regulations; and changes in currency exchange rates. The occurrence of any of these risks could have an adverse effect on regional demand for our products and services or our ability to provide them. Further, we may experience restrictions in travel to visit customers or start-up projects, and we may incur added costs by implementing security precautions. An interruption of our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Consistent with the laws of their respective jurisdictions of incorporation, our UK-based operations, our Japanese subsidiary and our Canadian subsidiary have made sales (as part of their ongoing businesses), and have informed us that they expect to continue making sales, of non-US equipment and services to customers in certain countries that are subject to US government trade sanctions (“Embargoed Countries”). In the past, these included sales to the Iraqi national oil companies permitted under the United Nations Oil-For-Food Program, Libya, Syria, Iran and Sudan. Sales to customers in Embargoed Countries were less than 1% of our consolidated revenue in each of the years 2007, 2006 and 2005. A substantial or extended decline in commodity prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, thereby negatively affecting our revenue and results of operations. Our business is substantially dependent on the condition of the oil and gas industry and its willingness to spend capital on the exploration for and development of oil and gas reserves. A substantial or extended decline in these expenditures may result in the discovery of fewer new reserves of oil and gas and/or the delay in development of known reserves, thereby adversely affecting the market for our production equipment and services. The level of these expenditures is generally dependent on the industry’s view of future oil and gas prices, which have been characterized by significant volatility in recent years. Oil and gas prices are affected by numerous factors outside of our control, including: the level of exploration activity; worldwide economic activity; interest rates; the cost of capital and currency exchange rate fluctuations; environmental regulation; tax policies; energy policies and political requirements of national governments; coordination by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC); political environment, including war and terrorism; the cost of producing oil and gas; technological advances; changes in the supply of and demand for oil, natural gas and electricity; and weather conditions. The dollar amount of our backlog, as stated at any given time, is not necessarily indicative of our future cash flow. Backlog consists of firm customer orders that have satisfactory credit or financing arrangements in place, for which authorization to begin work or purchase materials has been given and for which a delivery date has been indicated. We cannot guarantee the revenues projected in our backlog will be realized, or if realized, will result in profits. Occasionally, a customer will cancel or delay a project for reasons beyond our control. In the event of a project cancellation, we are generally reimbursed for our costs, but typically have no contractual right to the total revenues expected from any such project as reflected in our backlog. In addition, projects may remain in our backlog for extended periods of time. If we were to experience significant cancellations or delays of projects in our backlog, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our fixed-price contracts, which may be subject to gross profit fluctuations, may impact our margin expectations. Most of our projects, including larger engineered systems projects, are performed on a fixed-price basis. We are responsible for all cost overruns, other than any resulting from customer-approved change orders and certain force majeure (natural disasters) situations. Our costs and any gross profit realized on our fixed-price contracts may often vary from the estimated amounts on which these contracts were originally based. This may 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements occur for various reasons, including: errors in estimates or bidding; changes in availability and cost of labor and materials; liquidated damages and variations in productivity from our original estimates. These variations and the risks inherent in engineered built-to-order projects may result in reduced profitability or losses on our projects. Depending on the size of a project, variations from estimated contract performance can have a significant negative impact on our operating results or our financial condition. We make estimates in accounting for long-term contracts, and changes in these estimates may impact our earnings. An increasingly larger share (approximately half) of our global revenue is recognized on a “percentage of completion” basis. We recognize revenue on contracts using the cost-to-cost method of accounting as determined by the ratio of cumulative costs incurred-to-date to estimated total contract costs at completion, multiplied by the total estimated contract revenue, less cumulative revenue recognized in prior periods. A significant change in an estimate on one or more contracts could have a material effect on our results of operations. Long-term contracts for operation of owned separation facilities are cancelable. We operate certain of our assets under long-term contracts for our customers. In exchange for our ownership and operation of these assets, our customers pay us a tolling fee based on the facility’s throughput. Each contract is cancelable at the customer’s option subject to provisions which require, among other things, payment of significant cancellation fees. In the event of a cancellation, the Company would receive the cancellation charge and would retain custody of the assets, but would lose the future revenue stream associated with the cancelled contract. There can be no assurance the Company would have suitable alternative uses for the assets or cash which would offset the lost revenue from any canceled contract. Certain of our segments relied, and may continue to rely, on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of their revenues. There have been and are expected to be periods where a substantial portion of the revenue in certain of our segments is derived from a small group of customers. We have a number of ongoing relationships with major oil companies, national oil companies and large independent producers. The loss of one or more of these ongoing relationships could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations of the affected segments. We may experience losses caused by being unable to collect amounts due from customers. We typically do business with our customers on an open account basis. Credit limits are established for each customer and the credit exposure with them is routinely monitored. It is possible that we could experience losses from customers’ inability to pay amounts due the company. For our custom engineered built-to-order systems, customers make payments to us as the work progresses toward completion. However, if a customer became insolvent or filed for bankruptcy protection the value of the equipment may be less than the amount owed by the customer thereby creating a loss for us. While we take reasonable precautions to safeguard against experiencing such losses, there is no assurance they will not occur. Liability to customers under warranties may adversely affect our cash flow. We typically warrant the workmanship and materials used in the equipment we manufacture. At the request of our customers, we may warrant the operational performance of the equipment we manufacture. Failure of this equipment to operate properly or to meet specifications may increase our costs by requiring additional engineering resources, replacement of parts and equipment or service or monetary reimbursement to a customer. Our warranties often are backed by letters of credit. At December 31, 2007, we had provided to our customers approximately $16.8 million in letters of credit related to performance and warranties. We have received warranty claims in the past, and we expect to continue to receive them in the future. To the extent that we incur warranty claims in any period substantially in excess of our warranty reserve, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our ability to attract and retain skilled labor is crucial to our profitability. Our ability to succeed depends in part on our ability to attract and retain skilled manufacturing workers, equipment operators, engineers and other technical personnel. Our ability to expand our operations depends primarily on our ability to increase 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements our labor force. Demand for these workers can fluctuate in line with overall activity levels within our industry and from competition from other industries. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in increases in the rates of wages we must pay. If this were to occur and we were unable to pass such cost increases on to customers, the effect would be a reduction in our profits and to the extent that our available work force were to contract, the effect would diminish our production capacity and profitability and impairment of our growth potential. Our ability to manage third party sub-contractors could affect our profitability. For certain orders, we use third party contractors to do portions of the work. Also, in the future, we intend to increase our utilization of subcontractors, especially for fabrication requirements, when it makes economic sense to do so. Using subcontractors carries a degree of risk and could result in project delays; escalated costs; substandard quality; rework and warranty costs that may not be recoverable under the prime contract resulting in lower project margins or, possibly, losses due to non-performance; and liquidated damages. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business reputation and profitability. Future acquisitions, if any, may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business and adversely affect our operating results. We intend to consider and, if feasible, to make strategic acquisitions of other companies, assets and product lines that complement or expand our existing businesses. We cannot assure you we will be able to identify successfully suitable acquisition opportunities or to finance and complete any particular acquisition. Furthermore, acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: the diversion of our management’s attention to the assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired business; possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process; potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies; potential lack of experience operating in a geographic market of the acquired business; an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements; and the possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the business combination. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash flow from an acquired business or realize other anticipated benefits of an acquisition. Our quarterly revenues and cash flow may fluctuate significantly. Our revenues are substantially derived from significant contracts that are often performed over periods of two to six or more quarters. As a result, our revenue and cash flow may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, depending upon our ability to replace existing contracts with new orders and upon the extent of any delays in completing existing projects. Our insurance policies may not cover all claims against us or may be insufficient in amount to cover such claims. Some of our products are used in potentially hazardous production applications that can cause personal injury; loss of life; damage to property, equipment or the environment; and suspension of operations. We maintain insurance coverage against these and other risks associated with our business in accordance with standard industry practice. This insurance may not protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, losses resulting from business interruption or acts of terrorism or damages from breach of contract by the Company or based on alleged fraud or deceptive trade practices. We cannot assure you our insurance will be adequate in risk coverage or policy limits to cover all losses or liabilities that we may incur. Moreover, we cannot assure that we will be able in the future to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. Any future damages caused by our products or services that are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may incur substantial costs to comply with environmental obligations. In our equipment fabrication and refurbishing operations, we generate and manage hazardous wastes. These include: waste solvents; waste paint; waste oil; wash-down wastes; and sandblasting wastes. We attempt to identify and address environmental issues before acquiring properties and to utilize industry accepted operating and disposal practices regarding the management and disposal of hazardous wastes. Nevertheless, either others or we may have released hazardous materials on our properties or in other locations where hazardous wastes have been taken for disposal. We may 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements be required by federal, state or foreign environmental laws to remove hazardous wastes or to remediate sites where they have been released. We could also be subjected to civil and criminal penalties for violations of those laws. Our costs to comply with these laws may adversely affect our earnings. Our ability to obtain financing for future growth opportunities may be limited. Our ability to execute our growth strategies may be limited by our ability to secure and retain reasonably priced financing. We utilize certain amounts of letters of credit to provide guarantees or warranties to our customers and to secure our performance, bids or milestone payments on large projects. Outstanding letters of credit can consume a portion of our available liquidity under our revolving credit and export sales facilities. Some of our competitors are larger companies which may have better access to capital and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us should our access to capital be limited. Fluctuations in the value of the US dollar relative to other currencies may adversely affect our business. The recent weakness of the US dollar may render certain of our projects, which are denominated in foreign currencies, relatively less competitive. Continual weakness could have a negative impact on our sales, revenues, profitability and cash flows. Failure To Achieve And Maintain Effective Internal Controls In Accordance With Section 404 Of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires us to include an internal control report from management in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The internal control report must include the following: (1) a statement of management’s responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, (2) a statement identifying the framework used by management to conduct the required evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, (3) management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective, and (4) a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management’s internal control over financial reporting. Our assessment as of December 31, 2007 identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, which also adversely impacted our disclosure controls and procedures. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Since discovery of the material weakness, the Company has embarked on the implementation of changes in its disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Even with this additional work, however, there is a risk of errors not being prevented or detected. For additional information refer to Item 9A. Controls and Procedures in this Annual Report. Because of the material weakness identified during the assessment of internal control over financial reporting, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of December 31, 2007, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective based on the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control—Integrated Framework. This failure and any failure in the future to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and otherwise comply with the requirements of Section 404 could have a material adverse effect on our business. Such noncompliance could adversely affect the perception of our business among customers, suppliers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others. Our implementation of an Enterprise Resource Planning system during 2008 and 2009 may encounter unforeseen difficulties and result in implementation costs being greater than planned. Planning, designing and implementing an ERP system is a significant long-term endeavor and is resource intensive. We are expecting to transition from a function-oriented organization to a process-oriented organization. The change to process- 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements orientation can fundamentally affect all key activities within our Company. Failure to execute smoothly the implementation of the ERP system could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are conducting a review into certain payments in one of the countries where we do business, which may present issues under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The internal review could result in civil or criminal proceedings, the imposition of fines and penalties, the incurrence of expenses, and other adverse effects on our Company. On February 28, 2008, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, with the assistance of outside counsel, initiated a review of certain payments made in a foreign jurisdiction in which the Company operates, which may present issues under the FCPA. Based on the results of the internal review, the Company has determined that the payments were made to one or more person(s) who identified themselves as government employees, in order to obtain certain work permits and licenses, and to satisfy certain “penalties” assessed by the authorities. The internal review is sufficiently complete to reasonably determine the nature and extent of the matters covered by the Investigation, and at this time, we have determined, with a reasonable amount of assurance, that the total of the payments at issue is approximately $161,000. These payments were made at various times during 2006 and 2007. The Company presently believes the payments are of an immaterial amount and expects this matter to have no effect on the Company’s previously reported financial results, including for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. We have reported this matter to the SEC and the DOJ and intend to keep them apprised as to the progress of the review. In this connection, on March 11, 2008, the SEC informed us that it had opened a preliminary inquiry into the matter. The Company is cooperating with this inquiry. The Audit Committee is working towards completing its internal review, and further issues may arise as the Audit Committee completes its work. In addition, the DOJ, the SEC or other governmental authorities could seek criminal or civil sanctions, including monetary fines and penalties, against the Company and/or certain of its employees, as well as additional changes to its business practices and compliance programs in the event that the review or any governmental investigation identifies violations of law. To the extent the payments are determined to be illegal in the foreign jurisdiction, it is possible that there could be civil or criminal penalties assessed in that jurisdiction. No amounts have been accrued in the Company’s financial statements with respect to these matters. Although we do not expect this matter to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we can give no assurance to that effect. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 