Risk Factors Certain risk factors that may affect the Corporation’s future results of operations are discussed below. Risks Relating to the Corporation’s Business Fluctuations in interest rates may impact the Corporation’s results of operations Significant variances in interest rates are the primary market risk affecting the Corporation. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, such as government monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions that are beyond the control of the Corporation. Interest rate shifts may reduce net interest income Shifts in short-term interest rates may reduce net interest income, which is the principal component of the Corporation’s earnings. Net interest income is the difference between the amount received by the Corporation on its interest-earning assets and the interest paid by the Corporation on its interest-bearing liabilities. When interest rates rise, the Corporation must pay more in interest on its liabilities while the interest earned on its assets does not rise as quickly. This may cause the Corporation’s profits to decrease. This adverse impact on earnings is greater when the slope of the yield curve flattens, that is, when short-term interest rates increase more than long-term rates. Increases in interest rates may reduce the value of holdings of securities Fixed-rate securities acquired by the Corporation are generally subject to decreases in market value when interest rates rise, which may require recognition of a loss, (e.g., the identification of other-than-temporary impairment on its available-for-sale or held-to-maturity investments portfolio) thereby potentially affecting adversely the results of operations. Market related reductions in value also affect the capabilities of financing these securities. Increases in interest rates may reduce demand for mortgage and other loans Higher interest rates increase the cost of mortgage and other loans to consumers and businesses and may reduce demand for such loans, which may negatively impact the Corporation’s profits by reducing the amount of loan origination income. Decreases in interest rates may increase the pre-payment of certain assets Future net interest income could be affected by the Corporation’s holding of callable securities. The recent drop in the long term interest rates has the effect of increasing the probability of the exercise of embedded calls in the approximately $945 million U.S. Agency securities portfolio that if substituted with new lower-yielding investments may negatively impact the Corporation’s interest income. Net interest income of future periods may also be affected by the acceleration in pre-payments of mortgage-backed securities and loan portfolios. Acceleration in the pre-payments of mortgage-backed securities and loan portfolios implies that the replacement of such assets would be at lower rates and therefore threatening the net interest margin to the extent that the related funding of those assets does not re-price by a similar rate of change. 28 Table of Contents Decreases in interest rates may reduce net interest income due to the current unprecedented re-pricing mismatch of assets and liabilities tied to short-term interest rates (Basis Risk) Basis risk occurs when market rates for different financial instruments, or the indices used to price assets and liabilities, change at different times or by different amounts. Recent liquidity pressures affecting the U.S. financial markets have caused a wider than historical spread between brokered CDs costs and LIBOR rates for similar terms. This in turn, is preventing the Corporation from capturing the full benefit of recent drops in interest rates as the Corporation’s loan portfolio funded by LIBOR-based brokered CDs continues to maintain the same historical spread to short-term LIBOR rates. To the extent that such pressures fail to subside in the near future, the margin between the Corporation’s LIBOR-based assets and LIBOR-based liabilities may compress and adversely affect net interest income. Downgrades to the Corporation’s credit ratings could potentially increase the cost of borrowing funds Fitch Ratings Ltd. (“Fitch”) has rated the Corporation’s long-term senior debt a rating of BB, which is two notches under investment grade. Moody’s Investor Service (“Moody’s”) has rated FirstBank’s long-term senior debt at Ba1, and Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) has rated it at BB+, one notch under their definition of investment grade. However, the credit ratings outlook for Moody’s and S&P are stable while Fitch’s is negative. The Corporation does not have any outstanding debt or derivative agreements that would be affected by a credit downgrade. The Corporation’s liquidity is contingent upon its ability to obtain external sources of funding to finance its operations. Any future downgrades in credit ratings can hinder the Corporation’s access to external funding and/or cause external funding to be more expensive, which could in turn adversely affect the results of operations. Also, any change in credit ratings may affect the fair value of certain liabilities and unsecured derivatives, measured at fair value in the financial statements, for which the Corporation’s own credit risk is an element considered in the fair value determination. These debt and financial strength ratings are current opinions of the rating agencies. As such, they may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies as a result of changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances. Unforeseen disruptions in the brokered CDs market could compromise the Corporation’s liquidity position A large portion of the Corporation’s funding is retail brokered CDs issued by FirstBank. Total brokered CDs increased from $7.2 billion at year end 2007 to $8.4 billion as of December 31, 2008. 29 Table of Contents Should an unforeseen disruption in the brokered CDs market, stemming from factors such as legal, regulatory or financial risks, compromise the Corporation’s ability to continue funding its operations and/or meet its obligations, it could be obligated to liquidate assets in a relatively short period of time to cover its liquidity needs. Adverse credit market conditions may affect the Corporation’s ability to meet liquidity needs The credit markets have recently been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. In the second half of 2008, the volatility and disruptions have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressures on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. The Corporation needs liquidity to, among other things, pay its operating expenses, interest on its debt and dividends on its capital stock, maintain its lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, the Corporation may be forced to curtail its operations. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit and the Corporation’s credit ratings and credit capacity. The Corporation’s financial condition and cash flows could be materially affected by continued disruptions in financial markets. The Corporation is subject to default risk on loans, which may adversely affect its results The Corporation is subject to the risk of loss from loan defaults and foreclosures with respect to the loans it originates. The Corporation establishes a provision for loan losses, which leads to reductions in its income from operations, in order to maintain its allowance for inherent loan losses at a level which its management deems to be appropriate based upon an assessment of the quality of its loan portfolio. Although the Corporation’s management utilizes its best judgment in providing for loan losses, there can be no assurance that management has accurately estimated the level of inherent loan losses or that the Corporation will not have to increase its provision for loan losses in the future as a result of future increases in non performing loans or for other reasons beyond its control. Any such increases in the Corporation’s provision for loan losses or any loan losses in excess of its provision for loan losses would have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s future financial condition and results of operations. Given the difficulties on the Corporation’s largest borrowers, Doral and R&G Financial, the Corporation can give no assurance that these borrowers will continue to repay their secured loans on a timely basis or that the Corporation will continue to be able to accurately assess any risk of loss from the loans to these financial institutions. Changes in collateral valuation for properties located in stagnant or distressed economies may require increased reserves Substantially all of the loan portfolio of the Corporation is located within the boundaries of the U.S. economy. Whether the collateral is located in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands or the U.S. mainland, the performance of the Corporation’s loan portfolio and the collateral value backing the transactions are dependent upon the performance of and conditions within each specific area’s real estate market. Recent economic reports related to the real estate market in Puerto Rico indicate that certain pockets of the real estate market are subject to readjustments in value driven not by demand but more by the purchasing power of the consumers and general economic conditions. In South Florida we are seeing the negative impact associated with low absorption rates and property value adjustments due to overbuilding. A significant decline in collateral valuations for collateral dependent loans may require increases in the Corporation’s specific provision for loan losses and an increase in the general valuation allowance. Any such increase would have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s future financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents The Corporation’s business concentration in Puerto Rico imposes risks The Corporation conducts its operations in a geographically concentrated area, as its main market is Puerto Rico. This imposes risks from lack of diversification in the geographical portfolio. The Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on the economic conditions of Puerto Rico, where adverse political or economic developments, natural disasters, etc., could affect the volume of loan originations, increase the level of nonperforming assets, increase the rate of foreclosure losses on loans, and reduce the value of the Corporation’s loans and loan servicing portfolio. First BanCorp’s credit quality may be adversely affected by Puerto Rico’s current economic condition Beginning in March 2006 and continuing through 2008, a number of key economic indicators showed that the economy of Puerto Rico has been under a recession during that period of time. Construction remained weak during 2008, as the combination of rising interest rates, the Commonwealth’s fiscal situation and decreasing public investment in construction projects affected the sector. During the period from January to December 2008, cement sales, an indicator of construction activity, declined by 16% as compared to 2007. As of September 2008, exports decreased by 11.7%, while imports decreased by 8.9%, a negative trade, which continues since the first negative trade balance of the last decade was registered in November 2006. Tourism activity has also declined during 2008. Total hotel registrations for January to October 2008 declined 2% as compared to the same period for 2007. During 2008 new vehicle sales decreased by 13%, the lowest since 1993. In December 2008, unemployment in Puerto Rico reached 13.1% up 2.6% compared with the same period in 2007. On February 9, 2009 the Puerto Rico Planning Board announced the release of Puerto Rico’s macroeconomic data for fiscal year 2008, as well as projected figures for fiscal years 2009 and 2010. The Planning Board’s revision for fiscal year 2008 shows the growth of the Puerto Rico economy slowing down by 2.5%. The Planning Board’s projections point toward an economy that will have contracted by 3.4% during the current fiscal year of 2009 (ending on June 30, 2009) and that will suffer an estimated reduction of 2.0% during fiscal year 2010. In general, the Puerto Rico economy continued its trend of decreasing growth, primarily due to weaker manufacturing, softer consumption and decreased government investment in construction. The above economic concerns and uncertainty in the private and public sectors may also have an adverse effect on the credit quality of the Corporation’s loan portfolios, as delinquency rates are expected to increase in the short-term, until the economy stabilizes. Also, a potential reduction in consumer spending may also impact growth in other interest and non-interest revenue sources of the Corporation. Rating downgrades on the Government of Puerto Rico’s debt obligations may affect the Corporation’s credit exposure Even though Puerto Rico’s economy is closely integrated to that of the U.S. mainland and its government and many of its instrumentalities are investment-grade rated borrowers in the U.S. capital markets, the current fiscal situation of the Government of Puerto Rico has led nationally recognized rating agencies to downgrade its debt obligations in the past. In May 2006, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the Government’s general obligation bond rating to Baa3 from Baa2, and put the credit on “watch list” for possible further downgrades. The Commonwealth’s appropriation bonds and some of the subordinated revenue bonds were also downgraded by one notch and are now rated below investment grade at Ba1. Moody’s commented that its action reflected the Government’s strained financial condition, the ongoing political conflict and lack of agreement regarding the measures necessary to end the government’s multi-year trend of financial deterioration. In November 2007, Moody’s Investors Services removed the negative outlook and changed to stable as a reflection of measures the Commonwealth took to reduce the budget deficits such as implementation of the Fiscal Reform and Sales and use Tax. In May 2007, S&P downgraded their credit ratings on the Commonwealth General Obligation debt, and removed the negative outlook and changed to stable. This action reflected factors such as the Government’s ability to implement meaningful steps to curb operating expenditures, improve managerial and budgetary controls, high debt 31 Table of Contents levels, chronic deficits, and eliminate the government’s reliance on operating budget loans from the Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico. At the present both rating agencies maintain the stable outlook for the Puerto Rico general obligation bonds. It is uncertain how the financial markets may react to any potential future ratings downgrade in Puerto Rico’s debt obligations. However, the fallout from the recent budgetary crisis and a possible ratings downgrade could adversely affect the value of Puerto Rico’s Government obligations. Difficult market conditions have affected the financial industry and may adversely affect the Corporation in the future Given that almost all of our business is in Puerto Rico and the United States and given the degree of interrelation between Puerto Rico’s economy and that of the United States, the Corporation is particularly exposed to downturns in the U.S. economy. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial banks and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital from private and government entities, to merge with larger and stronger financial institutions and, in some cases, fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets in general and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, erosion of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity in general. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and erosion of confidence in the financial markets has already adversely affected our industry and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation does not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on the Corporation and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, the Corporation may face the following risks in connection with these events: • The Corporation expects to face increased regulation of the financial industry resulting from the recent instability in capital markets, financial institutions and financial system in general. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • The Corporation’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite the loans become less predictive of future behaviors. • The models used to estimate losses inherent in the credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of the borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation and which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the models. • The Corporation’s ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in sales of mortgage loans to third parties (including mortgage loan securitization transactions with government sponsored entities) on favorable terms, or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including deteriorating investor expectations. • Competitive dynamics in the industry could change as a result of consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. 32 Table of Contents A prolonged economic slowdown or the decline in the real estate market in the U.S. mainland could continue to harm the results of operations The residential mortgage loan origination business has historically been cyclical, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of shrinking volumes and industry-wide losses. The market for residential mortgage loan originations is currently in decline and this trend could also reduce the level of mortgage loans the Corporation may produce in the future and adversely impact our business. During periods of rising interest rates, refinancing originations for many mortgage products tend to decrease as the economic incentives for borrowers to refinance their existing mortgage loans are reduced. In addition, the residential mortgage loan origination business is impacted by home values. Over the past eighteen months, residential real estate values in many areas of the U.S. mainland have decreased greatly, which has led to lower volumes and higher losses across the industry, adversely impacting our mortgage business. The actual rates of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on loans have been higher during the current economic slowdown. Rising unemployment, higher interest rates or declines in housing prices have had a greater negative effect on the ability of borrowers to repay their mortgage loans. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could continue to harm the Corporation’s ability to sell loans, the prices the Corporation receives for loans, the values of mortgage loans held-for-sale or residual interests in securitizations, which could harm the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any material decline in real estate values would weaken the collateral loan-to-value ratios and increase the possibility of loss if a borrower defaults. In such event, the Corporation will be subject to the risk of loss on such mortgage asset arising from borrower defaults to the extent not covered by third-party credit enhancement. There can be no assurance that actions of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect In response to the financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, on October 3, 2008, President Bush signed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (“EESA”) into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. Also a $787 billion package of spending and tax cuts was approved in early 2009 to stimulate the economy. The Federal Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. There can be no assurance as to what impact such actions will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility currently being experienced. Such continued volatility could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, or the trading price of our common stock. Unexpected losses in future reporting periods may require the Corporation to adjust the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets The Corporation evaluates the deferred tax assets for recoverability based on all available evidence. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws or variances between the future projected operating performance and the actual results. The Corporation is required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if the Corporation determines, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In determining the more-likely-than-not criterion, the Corporation evaluates all positive and negative evidence as of the end of each reporting period. Future adjustments, either increases or decreases, to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance will be determined based upon changes in the expected realization of the net deferred tax assets. The realization of the deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in either the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law. Due to significant estimates utilized in establishing the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is reasonably possible that the Corporation will be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance in future reporting periods. Such a charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and capital position. If the Corporation’s goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, it may adversely affect the operating results If the Corporation’s goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired the Corporation may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, the Corporation reviews its amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of the goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in the industry. If the Corporation is required to record a significant charge to earnings in the consolidated financial statements because an impairment of the goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, the Corporation’s results of operations will be adversely affected. 33 Table of Contents Stock price volatility The trading price of the Corporation’s stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to a change in sentiment in the market regarding the operations, business prospects or industry outlook. Risk factors may include the following: • operating results that may be worse than the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • developments in the business or in the financial sector in general; • regulatory changes affecting the industry in general or the business and operations; • the operating and securities price performance of peer financial institutions; • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by the Corporation or its competitors; • changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage-related securities; and • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions. Stock markets, in general, and the Corporation’s common stock in particular, have recently experienced significant price and volume volatility and the market price of the common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of the common stock. Inability to pay dividends on the common stock. Holders of the Corporation’s common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on the common stock, we are not required to do so. The Corporation expects to continue to pay dividends but its ability to pay future dividends at current levels or to pay dividends at all, will necessarily depend upon its earnings and financial condition. Any reduction of, or the elimination of, the common stock dividend in the future could adversely affect the market price of the common stock. Downgrades in the Corporation’s and its subsidiaries regulatory ratings could limit the Corporation’s ability to engage in certain activities The Corporation is subject to supervision and regulation by the FED. The Corporation is a bank holding company that qualifies as a financial holding corporation. As such, the Corporation is permitted to engage in a broader spectrum of activities than those permitted to bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. To continue to qualify as a financial holding corporation, each of the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries must continue to qualify as “well-capitalized” and “well-managed.” As of December 31, 2008, the Corporation and its banking subsidiaries continue to satisfy all applicable capital guidelines. This, however, does not prevent banking regulators from taking adverse actions against the Corporation if they should conclude that such actions are appropriate. If the Corporation were not to continue to qualify as a financial holding corporation, it might be required to discontinue certain activities and may be prohibited from engaging in new activities without prior regulatory approval. The FED, in the performance of its supervisory and enforcement duties, has significant discretion and power to initiate enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. Changes in regulations and legislation could have a financial impact on the Corporation As a financial institution, the Corporation is subject to the legislative and rulemaking authority of various regulatory and legislative bodies. Any change in regulations and/or legislation, whether in the United States or Puerto Rico, could have a financial impact on the results of operations of the Corporation. From time to time, legislation is introduced in Congress and state legislatures with respect to the regulation of financial institutions. It is anticipated that the 111th Congress will consider legislation affecting financial institutions in its upcoming session. Such legislation may change banking statutes and the operating environment or 34 Table of Contents that of the Corporation’s subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways. We cannot determine the ultimate effect that potential legislation, if enacted, or any regulations issued to implement it, would have upon the Corporation’s financial condition or results of operations. The FDIC may increase deposit insurance premium. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions up to certain limits. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund. Current economic conditions have increased expectations for bank failures, in which case the FDIC would take control of failed banks and ensure payment of deposits up to insured limits using the resources of the Deposit Insurance Fund. In such case, the FDIC may increase premium assessments to maintain adequate funding of the Deposit Insurance Fund. The EESA included a provision for an increase in the amount of deposits insured by the FDIC to $250,000 up to December 31, 2009. On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced a new program — the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program that provides unlimited deposit insurance on funds in noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts not otherwise covered by the existing deposit insurance limit of $250,000. The Corporation decided to participate in this Temporary Liquidity Program. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC approved an emergency special assessment of 20 cents per $100 insured deposits that would be collected in the third quarter of 2009 and agreed to increase fees it will begin charging banks in April to a range of 12 cents to 16 cents per $100 deposit. Further increases may be necessary in the future due to, among other things, additional increases in the number of bank failures. The Corporation expects an estimated charge of approximately $25 million resulting from the emergency special assessment in 2009 and an increase of approximately $13 million in the deposit insurance premium expense for 2009, as compared to 2008, as a result of the increase in the regular assessment rate. Any additional increase in the deposit insurance premium could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial statements. The failure of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Corporation The Corporation’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. The Corporation has exposure to different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, investment companies and other institutional clients. In certain of these transactions the Corporation is required to post collateral to secure the obligations to the counterparties. In the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding involving one of such counterparties, the Corporation may experience delays in recovering the assets posted as collateral or may incur a loss to the extent that the counterparty was holding collateral in excess of the obligation to such counterparty. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, many of these transactions expose the Corporation to credit risk in the event of a default by our counterparty or client. In addition, the credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Corporation cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to the Corporation. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Risks of not being able to recover all assets pledged to Lehman Brothers Special Financing, Inc. Lehman Brothers Special Financing, Inc. (“Lehman”) was the counterparty to the Corporation on certain interest rate swap agreements. During the third quarter of 2008, Lehman failed to pay the scheduled net cash settlement due to the Corporation, which constitutes an event of default under these interest rate swap agreements. The Corporation terminated all interest rate swaps with Lehman and replaced them with another counterparty under similar terms and conditions. In connection with the unpaid net cash settlement due as of December 31, 2008, under the swap agreements, the Corporation has an unsecured counterparty exposure with Lehman, which filed for bankruptcy on October 3, 2008, of approximately $1.4 million. This exposure has been reserved as of December 31, 2008. The Corporation had pledged collateral with Lehman to guarantee its performance under the swap agreements in the event payment thereunder was required. The market value of pledged securities with Lehman as of December 31, 2008 amounted to approximately $62 million. The position of the Corporation with respect to the recovery of the collateral, after discussion with its outside legal counsel, is that at all times title to the collateral has been vested in the Corporation and that, therefore, this collateral should not, for any purpose, be considered property of the bankruptcy estate available for distribution among Lehman’s creditors. On January 30, 2009, the Corporation filed a customer claim with the trustee and at this time the Corporation is unable to determine the timing of the claim resolution or whether it will succeed in recovering all or a substantial portion of the collateral or its equivalent value. As additional relevant facts become available in future periods, a need to recognize a partial or full reserve of this claim may arise. 35 Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect the Corporation’s financial statements The Corporation’s financial statements are subject to the application of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (“GAAP”), which is periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time the Corporation is required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by the FASB. Market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to promulgate new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in the Corporation’s annual and quarterly reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. An assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, the effects on the Corporation’s financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting standards that the Corporation is required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that the Corporation applies to its consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. 36 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 