D. Risk Factors The Company is subject to a number of risks due to the nature of its business and the present stage of development of business. The following factors should be considered: No known Reserves or Resources The Company’s properties are in the exploration stage and are without a known body of commercial ore. The Company has no mineral producing properties at this time. Only those mineral deposits that the Company can economically and legally extract or produce, based on a comprehensive evaluation of cost, grade, recovery and other factors, are considered “resources” or “reserves.” The Company has not defined or delineated any proven or probable reserves or resources on any of its properties. Although the mineralized material and mineralized deposit estimates included herein have been carefully prepared by the Company, or, in some instances have been prepared, reviewed or verified by independent mining experts, these amounts are estimates only and no assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery of gold, silver or other minerals from mineralized material will in fact be realized or that an identified mineralized deposit will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) reserve. See “Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements.” Development of any of the Company’s properties will only follow upon obtaining satisfactory exploration results. Mineral exploration and development involve a high degree of risk and few properties which are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. There is no assurance that the Company’s mineral exploration activities will result in the discovery of a body of commercial ore on any of its properties. Several years may pass between the discovery of a deposit and its exploitation. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable mineralized deposits. Operating Hazards and Risks Mineral exploration involves many risks. The operations in which the Company has a direct or indirect interest will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration, any of which could result in work stoppages and damage to persons or property or the environment and possible legal liability for any and all damage. Fires, power outages, labour disruptions, flooding, land slides and the inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labour are some of the risks involved in the conduct of exploration programs. Environmental Factors The Company conducts exploration activities in the Canadian Provinces of Ontario, Newfoundland, British Columbia, Nunavut Territory and through its majority owned subsidiary, Toquima Minerals Corporation, the States of Alaska and Nevada. Such activities are subject to various laws, rules and regulations governing the protection of the environment, including, in some cases, posting of reclamation bonds. In Canada, extensive environmental legislation has been enacted by federal and provincial governments. Such legislation imposes rigorous standards on the mining industry to reduce or eliminate the effects of wastes generated by extraction and processing operations and subsequently deposited on the ground or emitted into the air or water. All phases of the Company’s operations are subject to environmental regulation in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner which requires stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed properties and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. There is no assurance that future changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect the Company’s operations. The cost of compliance with changes in governmental regulations has the potential to preclude entirely the economic development of a property. The Company is able to conduct its exploration within the provisions of the applicable environmental legislation without undue constraint on its ability to carry on efficient operations. The estimated annual cost of environmental compliance for all properties held by the Company in the exploration stage is minimal and pertains primarily to carrying out diamond drilling, trenching or stripping. Environmental hazards may exist on the Company’s properties, which hazards are unknown to the Company at present, which have been caused by previous or existing owners or operators of the properties. On the McFinley Gold Project, there are a number of mine structures (head frame, bulk sample process plant) and mine features (unused tailings and settling ponds, rock dumps) which were used by the previous owners to gain underground access and stockpile mill feed. The mill was never operational and the stockpiled feed was never processed. The Company conducts on-going general rehabilitation activities to ensure the site is safe and secure. There are no immediate and material environmental concerns or liabilities based on consulting reports from URS Corporation and AMEC Engineering. Relatively minor environmental issues exist that can readily be addressed on final closure of the site. Water quality in the receiving environment meets prevailing norms. -14- See also “Governmental Regulation” below. Additional Financing and Agreements with Other Parties The Company has to-date been able to raise sufficient equity financing to undertake and carry out a certain amount of exploration on its principal and other properties. The Company also relies on corporate partners to fund a number of its properties in Ontario and Newfoundland. Additional future exploration of the Company's properties depends on the Company's ability to obtain additional required equity or partner financing. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $2.8 million. Working capital at December 31, 2005 was $3.2 million. In 2006, up to March 27, 2006, the Company had raised an additional $289 thousand from exercise of options and warrants. The Company will continue to incur exploration and assessment costs and intends to fund its operations from working capital. The Company anticipates that it will incur approximately $7.0 million in exploration and assessment costs and administrative and other expenditures during the year ending December 31, 2006. The Company’s ability to continue its future exploration, assessment, and development activities depends in part on the Company’s ability to commence operations and generate revenues or to obtain financing through joint ventures, debt financing, equity financing, production sharing arrangements or some combination of these or other means. There is no assurance that additional funding will be available to allow the Company to maintain its mineral properties in good standing. The lack of additional financing could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration and the possible, partial or total loss of the Company’s interest in its mineral properties. Competition The resource industry is intensively competitive in all of its phases, and the Company competes with many companies possessing greater financial resources and technical facilities than itself. Competition could adversely affect the Company’s ability to acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for exploration in the future. Title There is no guarantee that title to properties in which the Company has a material interest will not be challenged or impugned. The Company’s mineral property interests may be subject to prior unregistered agreements or transfers or native land claims and title may be affected by undetected defects. In addition, certain of the mining claims in which the Company has an interest are not recorded in the name of the Company and cannot be recorded until certain steps are taken by other parties. Before a number of claims under option can be recorded in the Company’s name, the underlying title holder has to assign title to the Company once the Company satisfies its option agreement obligations. There are no assurances that the underlying title holder will assign title. As at the date of this annual report, approximately 36% of claims have yet to be recorded in the Company’s name. Governmental Regulation Exploration activities on the Company’s properties are affected to varying degrees by: (i) government regulations relating to such matters as environmental protection, health, safety and labour; (ii) mining law reform; (iii) restrictions on production, price controls, and tax increases; (iv) maintenance of claims; (v) tenure; and (vi) expropriation of property. There is no assurance that future changes in such regulation, if any, will not adversely affect the Company’s operations. Changes in such regulation could result in additional expenses and capital expenditures, availability of capital, competition, reserve uncertainty, potential conflicts of interest, title risks, dilution, and restrictions and delays in operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted. The Company is at the exploration stage on all of its properties. Exploration on the Company’s properties requires responsible best exploration practices to comply with company policy, government regulations, maintenance of claims and tenure. The Company is required to be registered to do business and have a valid prospecting license (required to prospect or explore for minerals on Crown Mineral Land or to stake a claim) in any Canadian province in which it is carrying out work. -15- Mineral exploration primarily falls under provincial jurisdiction. However, the Company is also required to follow the regulations pertaining to the mineral exploration industry that fall under federal jurisdiction, such as the Fish and Wildlife Act. If any of the Company’s projects are advanced to the development stage, those operations will also be subject to various laws and regulations concerning development, production, taxes, labour standards, environmental protection, mine safety and other matters. Newfoundland Legislation and regulations implemented by the Newfoundland Department of Mines and Energy directly affect the mining industry in the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador where the Company holds some of its mineral claims. In particular, the Company must provide prior notice and a description of the planned exploration work and receive written approval before the commencement of the exploration work. Exploration work which involves mechanized activities such as drilling, trenching, heavy mineral studies, airborne geophysical surveys, extensive use of off road vehicles, establishment of a camp or other activities capable of causing ground disturbance, water quality impairments or disruption to wildlife or wildlife habitat, cannot commence until the work plan has been reviewed by the Department of Mines and Energy and a written exploration approval notice issued, outlining such terms and conditions deemed necessary and prescribed by the Minister. A License of Occupation under the Newfoundland Lands Act is required for a camp location where use or occupation of the camp is proposed to involve long term, seasonal or permanent use and occupation of the camp, or involves ground disturbance. Any clearing of areas in order to construct camps must comply with the Newfoundland Forestry Act and Regulations, and the Company must comply with the reclamation requirements pursuant to the Mineral Act. Pursuant to the Newfoundland Historic Resources Act, if drilling is planned for an area with known archaeological sites, the Company may be required to hire an archaeologist to ensure the work does not disturb any sites. No such sites are known to exist on any of the Company’s existing claims. The Acts and regulations which guide exploration activity in Newfoundland are: the Mineral Act, the Quarry Materials Act, the Mineral Holding Impost Act, the Crown Lands Act, the Forestry Act, the Forestry and Agricultural Act, the Occupational Health and Safety Act and the First Aid Regulations, the Waste Material (Disposal) Act, the Department of Health Act, the Food and Drug Act, the Wildlife Act, the Provincial Parks Act, the Dangerous Goods Transportation Act and the Municipalities Act. Ontario Legislation and regulations implemented by the Ministry of Northern Development and Mines and the Ministry of Natural Resources directly affect the mining industry in the Province of Ontario where the Company holds some of its mineral claims. The Company can carry out exploration work including drilling, trenching, heavy mineral studies, airborne geophysical surveys, extensive use of off road vehicles, establishment of a camp or other activities capable of causing ground disturbance, water quality impairments or disruption to wildlife or wildlife habitat, provided that it complies with applicable provincial and federal acts and regulations in so doing. The Company is not required to obtain a work permit for exploration activities on its Ontario properties. The Acts and Regulations which guide exploration activity in Ontario are: the Mining Act, the Public Lands Act, the Forest Fire Prevention Act, Lakes and Rivers Improvement Act, Crown Timber Act, Fisheries Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Health Protection and Promotion Act, Environmental Protections Act, and Gasoline Handling Act. International Risks Mineral rights and interests of the Company’s long-term investment, Africo Resources Ltd. (“Africo”), in the Democratic Republic of Congo (“DRC”) are subject to government approvals, licences and permits. Such approvals, licenses and permits are, as a practical matter, subject to the discretion of the applicable governments or governmental officials. No assurance can be given that the Company’s subsidiary will be successful in maintaining any or all of the various approvals, licences and permits in full force and effect without modification or revocation. Africo operates in a country that is subject to various political, economic and other uncertainties, including among other things, the risks of war and civil unrest, expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation or nullification of existing concessions, licences, permits, approvals and contracts, taxation policies, foreign exchange and repatriation restrictions, changing political -16- conditions, international monetary fluctuations, currency controls and foreign governmental regulations that favour or require the awarding of contracts to local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. In addition, in the event of a dispute arising from foreign operations, Africo may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or may not be successful in subjecting foreign persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States or Canada. The Company also may be hindered or prevented from enforcing its rights with respect to a governmental instrumentality because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity. It is not possible for the Company to accurately predict such developments or changes in laws or policy or to what extent any such development s or changes may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. The northeast region of the DRC has undergone civil unrest and instability which could have an impact on political, social or economic conditions in the DRC. Although the Kalakundi project is located in the southeast portion of the DRC, the effect of unrest and instability on political, social or economic conditions in the DRC could result in the impairment of the Company’s investment. Any such changes are beyond the control of the Company. Management The Company is dependent upon a number of key directors, officers and employees: J. Garfield MacVeigh, Chairman of the Board; David W. Adamson, President and CEO; Robert G. Lewis, CFO, and, William J. Cavalluzzo, Vice-President - Investor Relations. The loss of any one or more of the named directors, officers and employees could have an adverse effect on the Company. The Company has entered into management contracts with Mssrs. MacVeigh, Adamson, Lewis and Cavalluzzo. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees” and “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions”. The Company does not maintain key person insurance on any of its management. Conflicts of Interest Certain directors of the Company are directors of, or may become associated with, other natural resource companies that acquire interests in mineral properties. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. Such a conflict poses the risk that the Company may enter into a transaction on terms which place the Company in a worse position than if no conflict existed. The officers and directors of the Company are required by law to act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company and its shareholders and to disclose any interest which they may have in any project or opportunity of the Company, but each officer or director has the identical obligation to other companies for which such officer or director serves as an officer or director. Foreign Incorporation The Company is incorporated under the laws of the Province of British Columbia, Canada, and all of the Company’s seven directors and all of its officers are residents of Canada. Consequently, it may be difficult for United States investors to effect service of process within the United States upon the Company or upon those directors or officers who are not residents of the United States, or to realize in the United States upon judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. There is substantial doubt whether an original lawsuit could be brought successfully in Canada against any of such persons or the Company predicated solely upon such civil liabilities. “Penny Stock” Rules The Company’s Shares are “penny stock” as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which might affect the trading market for the Shares. Penny stocks are generally equity securities with a price of less than U.S. $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges, including AMEX or quoted on the NASDAQ National Market, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or system). The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and compensation information must be given to the customer orally or in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from such rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that is subject to the penny stock rules, such as the Company’s Shares which are considered “penny stock”, and therefore make it more difficult to sell those Shares. -17- Limited Operating History: Losses The Company has limited experience in mining or processing of metals. The Company has experienced, on a consolidated basis, losses in all years of its operations, including losses of $3,644,284, $4,082,836 and $2,312,394 in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company has no mineral properties in development or production and has no revenues from operations. The Company does not anticipate it will earn any revenue in 2006 and anticipates it will incur losses for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that the Company will operate profitably in the future, if at all. As at December 31, 2005, the Company’s deficit was $15,841,543. Price Fluctuations: Share Price Volatility In recent years, the securities markets in the United States and Canada have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many mineral exploration companies have experienced wide fluctuations in price which have not necessarily been related to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. In particular, the price of the Company’s Shares fluctuated from a high of $1.66 CAD to a low of $0.64 CAD per share within the twelve month period preceding the date of this Form. There can be no assurance that the continual fluctuations in price will not occur. Shares Reserved for Future Issuance: Dilution As at December 31, 2005 and March 27, 2006, there were respectively 4,815,000 (weighted average exercise price of $1.10 per share) and 4,475,000 stock options (average exercise price of $1.10 per share) and 4,815,000 (average exercise price of $1.10 per share)and 4,948,896 warrants (average exercise price of $0.88 per share) outstanding pursuant to which shares may be issued in the future, which will result in further dilution to the Company’s shareholders and pose a dilutive risk to potential investors. See “Item 17 - Financial Statements Note 8 and 13. Risk Associated with the Issuance of Flow-Through Shares The Company has financed its past exploration activities and operations primarily through the issuance of equity, including flow-through shares. Under the Income Tax Act (Canada), exploration companies are permitted to issue flow-through shares pursuant to a written agreement under which the issuer agrees to incur certain eligible Canadian exploration expenses within the time frame specified in the agreement and to flow-through or “renounce” the related tax deduction to the investor. The proceeds from the issuance of flow-through shares must be expended on “qualifying expenditures,” which are related to mineral exploration. In general, in such circumstances the Company agrees to incur certain qualifying expenditures and to renounce the related tax deduction to the investor within the time frame specified in the given agreement. In the event that the Company is unable to make the renunciation or fails to expend the funds on qualifying expenditures, the investor may be subject to reassessment for any related tax deduction taken by the investor and the Company could be liable to the investor for damages in an action for breach of contract. However, there is no right of rescission of the subscription contract that would result in a reversal of the share issuance. The investor may be entitled to damages (based on a breach of contract claim), which may include amounts related to the increased tax liability that the shareholder experienced resulting from the failure of the Company to renounce the contracted qualifying expenditures. In addition, the Company could be required to pay a penalty and interest to Revenue Canada for failure to make and renounce such qualifying expenditures. Although the Company believes it will make the qualifying expenditures based on its current operating plan and renounce the related tax deduction for the benefit of the purchasers of its flow-through shares, there can be no assurance that the Company will make the qualifying expenditures or renounce such deductions in a timely manner. The failure to make the qualifying expenditures or to renounce such deductions in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business or its ability to raise additional financing through the issuance of flow-through shares. Dividend Record and Policy The Company has not paid any dividends since incorporation and it has no present intention of paying dividends on its Shares as it anticipates that all available funds will be invested to finance the growth of its business. The directors of the Company will determine if and when dividends should be declared and paid in the future based on the Company’s financial position at the relevant time. All of the Shares are entitled to an equal share of any dividends declared and paid. -18- Item 