ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the risk factors set forth below may have a significant impact on the business, financial condition, or results of operations of IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company and could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in any forward-looking statements. If the Idaho Public Utilities Commission, the Oregon Public Utility Commission, or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission grant less rate recovery in regulatory proceedings than Idaho Power Company needs to cover existing and future increased costs of providing services, earnings and cash flows may be reduced. The prices that the Idaho Public Utilities Commission and Oregon Public Utility Commission authorize Idaho Power Company to charge for its retail services, and the tariff rate that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission permits Idaho Power Company to charge for transmission, are the most significant factors influencing IDACORP, Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. The Idaho Public Utilities Commission and Oregon Public Utility Commission have the authority to disallow recovery of any costs that they consider unreasonable or imprudently incurred, and the formula rates allowed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission may be insufficient for recovery of costs incurred. While the Idaho Public Utilities Commission and Oregon Public Utility Commission have established through the ratemaking process an authorized rate of return for Idaho Power Company, the regulatory process does not provide assurance that Idaho Power Company will be able to achieve the earnings level authorized. Further, while the Idaho Public Utilities Commission and Oregon Public Utility Commission are required to establish rates that are fair, just, and reasonable, they have significant discretion in applying this standard. The ratemaking process typically involves multiple parties, including governmental bodies, consumer advocacy groups, and various consumers of energy, each party has differing concerns but have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. Idaho Power Company cannot predict the ultimate outcomes of any ratemaking proceedings, including the extent to which certain costs—such as significant capital projects—will be recovered or what rates of return will be allowed. In January 2010, the Idaho Public Utilities Commission approved a settlement agreement that imposed a general rate moratorium in effect in the Idaho jurisdiction until January 1, 2012. While the moratorium does not apply to other specified revenue requirement proceedings, such as the power cost adjustment, the fixed cost adjustment, pension funding, advanced metering infrastructure, energy efficiency rider, and government imposed fees, Idaho Power Company attempts to manage its costs consistent with the moratorium. However, if Idaho Power Company is unable to do so, or if such cost management results in increased operational risk, the moratorium could adversely affect Idaho Power Company’s operations or results of operations. Idaho Power Company has power cost adjustment mechanisms that provide for periodic adjustments to the rates charged to its Idaho and Oregon retail customers. The power cost adjustment tracks Idaho Power Company’s actual net power supply costs (primarily fuel and purchased power less off-system sales) and compares these amounts to net power supply costs currently being recovered in retail rates. A majority, but not all, of the variance between these two amounts is deferred for future recovery from or refund to customers. Accordingly, the power cost adjustment mechanism only partially offsets the potentially adverse financial impacts of forced generating plant outages, severe weather, reduced hydroelectric generating availability, and volatile wholesale energy prices. Because of the power cost adjustment mechanism, the primary financial impact of power supply cost variations is on the timing of cash flows. When costs rise above the level recovered in retail rates it adversely affects Idaho Power Company’s operating cash flow and liquidity until those costs are recovered from customers. 18 Tableofcontents Reduced hydroelectric generation can reduce revenues and increase costs, and reduce earnings and cash flows. Idaho Power Company has a predominately hydroelectric generating base. Because of Idaho Power Company’s heavy reliance on hydroelectric generation, the availability of water can significantly affect its operations. When hydroelectric generation is reduced, Idaho Power Company must increase its use of generally more expensive thermal generating resources and purchased power and opportunities for off-system sales are reduced, which reduces revenues. In addition, while Idaho Power Company can expect to recover, as a result of its power cost adjustment mechanisms, the majority of its net power supply costs above the level included in its rates, recovery of the excess amounts does not occur until the subsequent power cost adjustment year. Continuing declines in stream flows and over-appropriation of water in Idaho may reduce hydroelectric generation and revenues and increase costs. The combination of declining Snake River base flows, over-appropriation of water, and drought conditions have led to disputes among surface water and ground water irrigators, and the State of Idaho. Recharging the Eastern Snake Plain aquifer, which contributes to Snake River flows, by diverting surface water to porous locations and permitting it to sink into the aquifer, is one proposed solution to the dispute. Diversions from the Snake River for aquifer recharge may further reduce Snake River flows available for hydroelectric generation and reduce Idaho Power Company’s revenues and increase costs. Idaho Power Company’s January 2010 settlement agreement with the State of Idaho resolves litigation regarding certain Idaho Power Company water rights on the Snake River and provides for ongoing Snake River water issues to be addressed in a comprehensive aquifer management plan process. However, there is no assurance that this process will lead to increased Snake River stream flows for Idaho Power Company’s hydroelectric projects. Idaho Power Company also has initiated legal action against the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation over the interpretation and effect of a 1923 contract with the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation on the operation of the American Falls Reservoir and the release of water from that reservoir to be used at Idaho Power Company’s downstream hydroelectric projects. The comprehensive aquifer management plan process and the resolution of the litigation may affect Snake River flows available for hydroelectric generation and thereby reduce Idaho Power Company’s revenues and increase costs. Idaho Power Company’s reliance on coal and natural gas to fuel its power generation facilities exposes it to risk of increased costs and reduced earnings. In addition to hydroelectric generation, Idaho Power Company relies on coal and natural gas to fuel its generation facilities. Increases in market prices for coal and natural gas can result in reduced earnings. Increases in demand for natural gas may result in market price increases, short-term price volatility, and supply availability issues. Operation of the Langley Gulch power plant that Idaho Power Company is currently constructing will increase Idaho Power Company’s demand for natural gas, and thus its exposure to volatility in natural gas prices. In addition, delivery of coal and natural gas depends upon gas pipelines, rail lines, rail cars, and roadways. Any disruption in Idaho Power Company’s fuel supply may require the company to find alternative fuel sources at higher costs, to produce power from higher cost generation facilities, or to purchase power from other sources at higher costs, which may adversely impact earnings. Idaho Power Company’s power generating facilities are subject to numerous operational risks unique to it and its industry. Operating risks associated with hydroelectric, natural gas, coal, and other generation facilities include equipment failures, volatility in fuel and transportation pricing, interruptions in fuel supplies, regulatory compliance obligations and costs, labor disputes, workforce safety matters, and catastrophic events at the facilities. These operational risks may result in plant outages, as well as increased operation and maintenance expenses, power generation costs, and power purchase costs. Load growth in Idaho Power Company’s service territory exposes it to greater market and operational risk and could increase costs and reduce earnings and cash flows. While Idaho Power Company’s customer growth rate has slowed in recent years, increases in both the number of customers and the demand for energy have resulted and may continue to result in increased reliance on purchased power to meet that demand. While Idaho Power Company can expect to recover the majority of the net power supply costs above the amounts included in its rates, recovery of the excess amounts does not occur until the subsequent power cost adjustment year, and the remaining amount is absorbed by Idaho Power Company, which could increase costs and reduce earnings and cash flows. Load growth can result in the need for additional investments in Idaho Power Company’s infrastructure to serve the new load. For instance, to meet customer demand Idaho Power Company is currently constructing its Langley Gulch natural gas-fired generating plant, and has in development a number of transmission projects. If Idaho Power Company was unable to secure timely rate relief from the Idaho Public Utilities Commission, the Oregon Public Utility Commission, or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to recover the costs of these additional investments, the resulting disconnect between the time expenditures are made and costs are recovered would have a negative effect on earnings and cash flows. Load growth can create planning and operating difficulties for Idaho Power Company that can negatively impact its ability to reliably serve customers. Weather and climate change could affect customer demand and hydroelectric generation and disrupt transmission and distribution systems, reducing earnings and cash flows. Warmer than normal winters, cooler than normal summers, and increased rainfall during the irrigation seasons will reduce retail revenues from power sales and may impact the amount and timing of hydroelectric generation. Extreme weather 19 Tableofcontents events can disrupt transmission and distribution systems and cause service interruptions and extended outages, increase supply chain costs, and potentially interrupt use of generation resources and limit the ability to meet customer demand. Disruption in transmission and distribution systems increases operations and maintenance expenses and reduces earnings and cash flows. In addition, long-term climate change could affect Idaho Power Company’s business in a variety of ways, including: • changes in temperature and precipitation could affect customer demand; • extreme weather events could increase service interruptions, outages, and maintenance costs; • changes in the amount and timing of snowpack and stream flows could adversely affect hydroelectric generation; • legislative and/or regulatory developments related to climate change could affect plans and operations, including placing restrictions on the construction of new generation resources and the expansion of existing resources, result in closure of generation resources or installation of costly pollution control equipment, or require changes to the operation of generation resources in general; and • consumer preference for, and resource planning decisions requiring, renewable or low greenhouse gas-emitting sources of energy could impact demand from existing sources and require significant investment in new generation and transmission resources. Any of these effects of climate change could decrease revenues, increase operating costs, and reduce IDACORP, Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s earnings and cash flows. Idaho Power Company’s risk management policy and programs relating to hedging power and gas exposures and counterparty creditworthiness may not always perform as intended, and as a result Idaho Power Company may suffer economic losses. Idaho Power Company is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe it money will default on their obligations. A similar risk of non-performance by third parties arises where those parties are obligated to purchase energy from, or sell energy to, Idaho Power Company, or are parties to commodity price risk management arrangements. Idaho Power Company actively manages the market risk inherent in its energy related activities and counterparty credit positions. Idaho Power Company has procedures that monitor compliance with its risk management policies and programs, including verification of transactions, regular portfolio reporting of various risk management metrics, and daily counterparty credit risk analysis. However, actual hydroelectric and thermal generation, transmission availability, and market prices may be significantly different than those originally planned for when Idaho Power Company enters into its hedging transactions positions. The high volatility of these items creates uncertainty in the appropriate amount of hedging activity to pursue. Forecasts of future loads and available resources to meet those loads are inherently uncertain and may cause Idaho Power Company to over- or under-hedge actual resource needs, exposing the company to market risk on the over- or under-hedged position. Changes in market prices are also unpredictable and can at times result in Idaho Power Company’s hedged positions performing less favorably than unhedged positions. In addition, Idaho Power Company’s counterparty credit policies may not prevent counterparties from failing to perform, forcing the company to replace forward contracts with transactions in the open market. As a result, risk management decisions may have significant impacts if actual events result in greater losses or costs in delivering energy to customers and could negatively affect IDACORP, Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Increased capital expenditures for power generation and delivery infrastructure development and replacement can significantly affect liquidity. Idaho Power Company’s business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other infrastructure projects. Increases in both the number of customers and the demand for energy require expansion and reinforcement of transmission and distribution systems, generating facilities, and other infrastructure. The cost of maintaining existing, aging equipment and infrastructure and developing new infrastructure is substantial, and involves risks relating to, among other things, cost overruns, unscheduled outages, price increases in commodities (such as steel and copper) and other materials necessary for developing infrastructure, and denial of regulatory recovery. If Idaho Power Company does not receive timely regulatory recovery of costs associated with those expansion and reinforcement activities or other capital projects, Idaho Power Company will have to rely more heavily on external financing for its future utility construction expenditures. These large planned expenditures may weaken the consolidated financial profile of IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company. 20 Additionally, a significant portion of Idaho Power Company’s facilities were constructed many years ago, which could affect reliability and increase maintenance costs. Failure of equipment or facilities used in Idaho Power Company’s system could potentially increase repair and maintenance expenses, purchased power expenses, and capital expenditures. The performance of pension and postretirement benefit plan investments and other factors impacting plan costs could adversely impact cash flow and liquidity. Idaho Power Company provides a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan covering most employees, as well as a defined benefit postretirement benefit plan (consisting of health care and death benefits) that covers eligible retirees. Costs of providing these benefits are based in part on the value of the plan’s assets and, therefore, adverse investment performance for these assets could increase Idaho Power Company’s funding requirements related to the plans. The key actuarial assumptions that affect expense are the expected long-term return on plan assets and the discount rate used in determining future benefit obligations. Management evaluates the actuarial assumptions on an annual basis, taking into account changes in market conditions, trends, and future expectations. Estimates of future stock market performance, changes in interest rates, and other factors used to develop the actuarial assumptions are uncertain, and actual results could vary significantly from the estimates. Changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Depending on the timing of contributions to the plans and the availability of recovery of costs through rates, cash contributions to the plans could impact IDACORP, Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s cash flow and liquidity. Complying with existing and future environmental laws and regulations will increase capital expenditures and operating costs and may reduce Idaho Power Company’s earnings and cash flows and ability to meet the electricity needs of its customers. Idaho Power Company is subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental statutes, rules, and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, natural resources, and health and safety. Compliance with these environmental statutes, rules, and regulations involves significant capital and operating expenditures. Members of Congress have proposed legislation to limit and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and the Environmental Protection Agency is taking action to address climate change and regulate greenhouse gas emissions, including the adoption of new reporting requirements that apply to Idaho Power Company’s facilities. The Environmental Protection Agency has also made an “endangerment finding” for greenhouse gas emissions from motor vehicles and has indicated that the Clean Air Act will require it to regulate carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions from major stationary sources, including Idaho Power Company’s thermal facilities, once it adopts greenhouse gas emission standards for motor vehicles. The adoption of a mandatory federal program or state programs to reduce carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions would raise uncertainty about the future viability of fossil fuels, specifically coal, as an economical energy source for new and existing electric generation facilities. Mercury and other pollutant emissions from Idaho Power Company’s thermal facilities are also subject to extensive regulation. The adoption of new statutes, rules, and regulations to reduce emissions, including controls to reduce carbon dioxide, greenhouse gas, mercury, or other pollutant emissions will result in increased capital expenditures and could increase the cost of operating coal-fired generating plants or make them uneconomical to operate and result in reduced earnings and cash flows. Complying with state or federal renewable energy portfolio standards could increase capital expenditures and operating costs and reduce earnings and cash flows. A number of states have adopted renewable energy portfolio standards. Idaho Power Company’s operations in Oregon will be required to comply with a ten percent renewable energy portfolio standard beginning in 2025, and it is possible that other states could adopt renewable energy portfolio standards that are applicable to Idaho Power in the future. New state or federal renewable energy portfolio standards could increase capital expenditures and operating costs and reduce earnings and cash flows. The listing as threatened or endangered under the Endangered Species Act of fish, wildlife, or plant species that are found in the areas of Idaho Power Company’s generation facilities or transmission lines may require mitigation, affect the location of a project or the ability to construct a project, and result in increased capital expenditures and operating costs. Relicensing of the Hells Canyon and Swan Falls hydroelectric projects and the construction of the Langley Gulch power plant and the Gateway West and Boardman to Hemingway transmission lines require consultation under the Endangered Species Act to determine the effects of these projects on any listed species within the project areas. The recent listing of 21 Tableofcontents slickspot peppergrass as a threatened species will require an Endangered Species Act consultation for the transmission and water lines for Langley Gulch as well as for the Gateway West and Boardman to Hemingway transmission lines, and future transmission projects. Similarly, the presence of sage grouse in the vicinity of Idaho Power’s Boardman to Hemingway and Gateway West 500-kV transmission line projects has required more extensive, costly, and time consuming evaluation and engineering. The impact of the Endangered Species Act, including the potential listing of additional fish, wildlife, or plant species, and similar laws may require mitigation, cause a delay in relicensing or construction of projects, affect the location or ability to construct a project, increase the costs of construction and operations, and reduce earnings and cash flows. Conditions that may be imposed in connection with hydroelectric license renewals may require large capital expenditures, increase operating costs, reduce hydroelectric production, and reduce earnings and cash flows. Idaho Power Company is currently involved in renewing federal licenses for some of its hydroelectric projects, including its largest hydroelectric generation source, the Hells Canyon Complex. Relicensing includes an extensive public review process that involves numerous natural resource issues and environmental conditions. The listing of various species of marine life, wildlife, and plants as threatened or endangered has resulted in significant changes to federally-authorized activities, including those of hydroelectric projects. Salmon and other marine life recovery plans could include further major operational changes to the region’s hydroelectric projects. In addition, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to such facilities, which could further increase required expenditures for marine life recovery and endangered species protection and reduce the amount of hydroelectric generation available to meet Idaho Power Company’s energy requirements. In 2007, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Staff issued a final environmental impact statement for the Hells Canyon Complex, which the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission will use in part to determine whether, and under what conditions, to issue a new license for the Hells Canyon Complex. Certain portions of the final environmental impact statement involve issues that may be influenced by water quality certifications for the project under Section 401 of the Clean Water Act and formal consultations under the Endangered Species Act, which remain unresolved. One significant issue involves water temperature gradients, and certain parties in the Hells Canyon Complex relicensing proceedings have advocated for the installation of water temperature management apparatus which, if required to be installed, would require substantial capital expenditures to construct and maintain. There can be no assurance that recovery through rates would be authorized, particularly given the magnitude of any potential impact on customer rates, which at this time cannot be accurately predicted. Idaho Power Company also cannot predict the requirements that might be imposed during the relicensing process, the economic impact of those requirements, or whether a new multi-year license will ultimately be issued. Imposition of onerous conditions in the relicensing process could result in Idaho Power incurring significant capital expenditures, increase operating costs, and reduce hydroelectric generation, which could reduce earnings and cash flows. Idaho Power Company’s business is subject to substantial governmental regulation and may be adversely affected by increased costs resulting from, or liability under, existing or future regulations or requirements. Idaho Power Company is subject to extensive federal and state laws, policies, and regulations, as well as regulatory actions and regulatory audits, including those of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, the Western Electricity Coordinating Council, and the public utility commissions in Idaho, Oregon, and Wyoming. Some of these regulations are changing or subject to interpretation, and failure to comply may result in penalties or other adverse consequences. Idaho Power Company has self-reported compliance issues to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and to the Western Electricity Coordinating Council. Several of the matters self-reported to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the Western Electricity Coordinating Council remain outstanding. Compliance with these requirements directly influences Idaho Power Company’s operating environment and may significantly increase Idaho Power Company’s operating costs. Further, potential monetary and non-monetary penalties for a violation of Federal Energy Regulatory Commission regulations may be substantial, and in some circumstances monetary penalties may be as high as $1 million per day per violation. The imposition of penalties on Idaho Power Company could have an adverse impact on its and IDACORP, Inc.’s results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 22 Tableofcontents IDACORP, Inc., its subsidiary IDACORP Energy, and Idaho Power Company are subject to costs and other effects of legal and regulatory proceedings, settlements, investigations, and claims. IDACORP, Inc., IDACORP Energy, and Idaho Power Company are involved in a number of proceedings, including the California refund proceeding, a portion of which remains pending before the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit; a refund proceeding affecting sellers of wholesale power in the spot market in the Pacific Northwest; and show cause proceedings originating at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, a portion of which remains pending in the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. It is possible that additional proceedings related to the western energy situation may be filed in the future against IDACORP, Inc., IDACORP Energy, or Idaho Power Company. IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company are or may also be subject to costs and other effects of additional legal claims, actions, and complaints, including those related to the Jim Bridger, Valmy, and Boardman coal-fired plants, in which Idaho Power Company holds an ownership interest. For instance, in September 2010, the Environmental Protection Agency issued a Notice of Violation to Portland General Electric Company, the majority owner of the Boardman plant, alleging that Portland General Electric Company had violated the New Source Performance Standards and operating permit requirements under the Clean Air Act, as a result of modifications made to the plant in 1998 and 2004. State attorneys general have brought actions against companies seeking additional disclosure of climate change-related risks and impacts, and private parties have brought tort actions against companies relating to their alleged contribution to climate change. If IDACORP, Inc., IDACORP Energy, or Idaho Power Company are required to make payments in connection with any legal or regulatory proceeding, settlement, investigation, or claim, earnings and cash flows could be negatively affected. As a holding company, IDACORP, Inc. does not have its own operating income and must rely on the upstream cash flows from its subsidiaries to pay dividends and make debt payments. IDACORP, Inc. is a holding company with no significant operations of its own, and its primary assets are shares or other ownership interests of its subsidiaries, primarily Idaho Power Company. Consequently, IDACORP, Inc.’s ability to pay dividends and to service its debt is dependent upon dividends and other payments received from its subsidiaries. IDACORP, Inc.’s subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to IDACORP, Inc., whether through dividends, loans, or other payments. The ability of IDACORP, Inc.’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to IDACORP, Inc. depends on several factors, including each subsidiaries’ actual and projected earnings and cash flow, capital requirements and general financial condition, regulatory restrictions, and the prior rights of holders of their existing and future first mortgage bonds and other debt or equity securities. A downgrade in IDACORP, Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s credit ratings could negatively affect the companies’ ability to access capital, increase their cost of borrowing, and require the companies to post collateral with transaction counterparties. Credit rating agencies periodically review the corporate credit ratings and long-term ratings of IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company. IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company also have borrowing arrangements that rely on the ability of the banks to fund loans or support commercial paper. Downgrades of IDACORP, Inc.’s or Idaho Power Company’s credit ratings, or those affecting relationship banks, could limit the companies’ ability to access capital, including the commercial paper markets, require the companies to pay a higher interest rate on their debt, and require the companies to post collateral with transaction counterparties. Volatility in the financial markets may negatively affect IDACORP, Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s ability to access capital and/or increase their cost of borrowing, or result in losses on investments. IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company require liquidity to pay operating expenses and principal of and interest on debt and to finance capital expenditures not satisfied by cash flows from operations. Financial markets have in recent years experienced extreme volatility and disruption, generally resulting in a decrease in the availability of liquidity and credit for borrowers. In a volatile credit environment, one or more of the participating banks in IDACORP, Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s credit facilities may default on their obligations to make loans under, or withdraw from, the credit facilities, or IDACORP, Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s access to capital may otherwise be inhibited. In addition, at times Idaho Power Company has a relatively large balance of short-term investments, particularly during times when it has issued debt or equity securities to fund future debt maturities not yet due and capital expenditure requirements payable over time. Volatility in the financial markets may result in a lack of liquidity for short-term investments and declines in value of some investments. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect IDACORP, Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s earnings, liquidity, and financial condition. 23 Tableofcontents National and regional economic conditions may cause increased late payments and uncollectible accounts, which would reduce earnings and cash flows. Recent concerns over energy costs, the availability and cost of credit, declining business, and high rates of unemployment contributed to a recent recession. These factors have resulted, and may continue to result, in an increase in late payments and uncollectible accounts, which reduce IDACORP Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s earnings and cash flows. National and regional economic conditions, in conjunction with increased electric rates, may reduce energy consumption, which may reduce revenues and future growth. Beginning in 2008, economic conditions in Idaho Power Company’s service area have been relatively weak. Unemployment rates are high relative to historic unemployment levels and customer growth has been slow relative to prior years. The recent recession and increased rates may reduce the amount of energy Idaho Power Company’s customers consume, result in a loss of customers, and reduce the customer growth rate. A decrease in overall customer usage may reduce revenues, earnings, and future growth. Changes in tax laws and regulations, or differing interpretation or enforcement of applicable laws by the Internal Revenue Service or other taxing jurisdictions, could have a material adverse impact on IDACORP, Inc.’s or Idaho Power Company’s financial condition. IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company must make judgments and interpretations about the application of the law when determining the provision for taxes. The companies’ tax obligations include income, real estate, public utility, municipal, sales and use, business and occupation, and employment-related taxes and ongoing issues related to these taxes. These judgments may include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that may be subject to challenge by taxing authorities. For instance, in September 2010, Idaho Power Company adopted a tax accounting method change for repair-related expenditures on utility assets concurrent with the filing of IDACORP, Inc.’s 2009 consolidated federal income tax return. Also in the third quarter of 2010, Idaho Power Company reached an agreement with the Internal Revenue Service, subject to subsequent review by the U.S. Congress Joint Committee on Taxation, regarding the allocation of mixed service costs in its method of uniform capitalization. The outcome of ongoing and future income tax proceedings such as these could differ materially from the amounts currently recorded, and the difference could reduce IDACORP, Inc.’s and Idaho Power Company’s earnings and cash flows. Further, in some instances the treatment from a ratemaking perspective of any benefits from tax-related projects, or the reversal of reserves recorded by IDACORP, Inc. or Idaho Power Company for tax-related matters such as those described above, could be different than IDACORP, Inc. or Idaho Power Company currently anticipate or in the future request from the regulatory bodies. The Idaho Public Utilities Commission or Oregon Public Utility Commission could, for instance, determine that all or a portion of any benefits resulting from tax-related projects be shared with customers in the form of reduced rates or otherwise, which may reduce revenue, earnings, and cash flows. Employee workforce factors could increase costs and reduce earnings. Idaho Power Company is subject to workforce factors, including, but not limited to, loss or retirement of key personnel, availability of qualified personnel, an aging workforce, and impacts of efforts to organize workforce, including the possible unionization of one or more segments of the workforce. Idaho Power Company’s operations require a skilled workforce to perform specialized, complex utility functions. Idaho Power Company expects that a significant portion of its skilled workforce will be retiring within the coming decade, which places demand on Idaho Power Company to attract and retain skilled workers. Without a skilled workforce, Idaho Power Company’s ability to provide quality service to its customers and meet regulatory requirements will be challenged and could affect earnings. Also, the costs associated with attracting and retaining appropriately qualified employees to replace an aging workforce could reduce earnings and cash flows. Terrorist threats and activities could result in reduced revenues and increased costs. Idaho Power Company’s generation and transmission facilities are potential targets for terrorist threats and activities. The possibility that infrastructure facilities, such as fossil and hydroelectric generation facilities and electric transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror may affect Idaho Power Company’s operations. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, war, and similar actions may also affect Idaho Power Company’s results of operations and its ability to raise capital. Further, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased compliance costs. 24 Tableofcontents IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company could be vulnerable to security breaches or other similar events that could disrupt their operations, require significant capital expenditures, and/or result in claims against the companies. In the normal course of business, Idaho Power Company collects, processes, and retains sensitive and confidential customer and proprietary information, and operates systems that directly impact the availability of electric power and the transmission of electric power in the electric grid. Despite the security measures in place, Idaho Power Company’s facilities and systems, and those of third-party service providers, could be vulnerable to security breaches or other similar events that could interrupt operations, resulting in a shutdown of service and expose Idaho Power Company to liability. In addition, Idaho Power Company may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches. Idaho Power Company’s ability to enter into over-the-counter derivatives and hedge commodity and interest rate risk may be adversely affected by recent federal legislation. In July 2010, Congress enacted, and President Obama signed, financial reform legislation known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Title VII of the legislation provides for the regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market, and requires the posting of cash collateral for uncleared swaps. If the rules enacted under the legislation require that Idaho Power Company post cash collateral on its swap or derivative transactions, its liquidity may be adversely affected, and rules promulgated under the legislation may impair Idaho Power Company’s ability to enter into over-the-counter derivatives to hedge commodity and interest rate risks. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 25 Tableofcontents 