ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are factors that could have a significant impact on the operations and financial results of IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company and could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in any forward-looking statements: Reduced hydroelectric generation can reduce revenues and increase costs. Idaho Power Company has a predominately hydroelectric generating base. Because of Idaho Power Company's heavy reliance on hydroelectric generation, the weather can significantly affect its operations. When hydroelectric generation is reduced, Idaho Power Company must increase its use of generally more expensive thermal generating resources and purchased power. Through its power cost adjustment in Idaho, Idaho Power Company can expect to recover approximately 90 percent of the increase in its Idaho jurisdictional net power supply costs, which are fuel and purchased power less off-system sales, above the level included in its base rates. The power cost adjustment recovery includes both a forecast and deferrals that are subject to the regulatory process. However, recovery of amounts above forecast in one power cost adjustment year does not occur until the subsequent power cost adjustment year. The non-Idaho net power supply costs are subject to periodic recovery from the Oregon and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission jurisdictional customers. Continuing declines in stream flows and over-appropriation of water in Idaho may reduce hydroelectric generation and revenues and increase costs. The combination of declining Snake River base flows, over-appropriation of water and drought conditions have led to disputes among surface water and ground water irrigators, and the State of Idaho. Recharging the Eastern Snake Plain Aquifer, which contributes to Snake River flows, by diverting surface water to porous locations and permitting it to sink into the aquifer is one proposed solution to the dispute. Diversions from the Snake River for aquifer recharge may further reduce Snake River flows available for hydroelectric generation and reduce Idaho Power Company revenues and increase costs. Changes in temperature and precipitation can reduce power sales and revenues. Warmer than normal winters, cooler than normal summers and increased rainfall during the irrigation seasons will reduce retail revenues from power sales. If the Idaho Public Utilities Commission, the Oregon Public Utility Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission grant less rate relief than requested in rate case filings, Idaho Power Company's earnings and cash flows will be reduced. If the Idaho Public Utilities Commission, the Oregon Public Utility Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission were to grant less rate relief than Idaho Power Company requests in its rate case filings, it would have a negative effect on earnings and cash flow and could result in downgrades of IDACORP, Inc.'s and Idaho Power Company's credit ratings. Conditions that may be imposed in connection with hydroelectric license renewals may require large capital expenditures and reduce earnings and cash flows. Idaho Power Company is currently involved in renewing federal licenses for several of its hydroelectric projects. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission may impose conditions with respect to environmental, operating and other matters in connection with the renewal of Idaho Power Company's licenses. These conditions could have a negative effect on Idaho Power Company's operations, require large capital expenditures and reduce earnings and cash flows. 10 Table of Contents The cost of complying with environmental regulations can reduce earnings and cash flows. IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, natural resources and health and safety. Compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations involves significant capital and operating expenditures. These expenditures could become even more significant in the future if legislation and enforcement policies change. For instance, considerable attention has been focused on carbon dioxide emissions from coal-fired generating plants and their potential role in contributing to global warming. The effects of mercury emissions from coal-fired plants are also being discussed. The adoption of new laws and regulations to implement carbon dioxide, mercury or other emission controls could increase the cost of operating coal-fired generating plants and reduce earnings and cash flows. IDACORP, Inc., IDACORP Energy and Idaho Power Company are subject to costs and other effects of legal and regulatory proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims, including those that have arisen out of the western energy situation. IDACORP, Inc., IDACORP Energy and Idaho Power Company are involved in a number of proceedings including the California refund proceeding at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which has been settled but which has an appeal pending at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit; a refund proceeding affecting sellers of wholesale power in the spot market in the Pacific Northwest, in which the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission directed that no refunds be paid, but which has an appeal pending before the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit; efforts by two remaining parties (the City of Tacoma and Wah Chang) to reform or terminate contracts for the purchase of power from IDACORP Energy or other parties claiming violations of state and federal antitrust acts and dysfunctional energy markets as the result of market manipulation; show cause proceedings at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which have been settled but are the subject of motions for rehearing or have been appealed; claims pending before the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission-ordered refund period should have been expanded to include a longer time period, and the reversal by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit of Federal Energy Regulatory Commission rulings that market-based sellers' transactional reports satisfy the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's filed-rate doctrine requirements as a means of expanding refunds from all sellers of wholesale power, which rulings remain pending before the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit on rehearing. To the extent the companies are required to make payments, earnings and cash flows will be negatively affected. It is possible that additional proceedings related to the western energy situation may be filed in the future against IDACORP, Inc., IDACORP Energy or Idaho Power Company. Idaho Power Company's business is subject to substantial governmental regulation and may be adversely affected by increased costs resulting from, or liability under, existing or future regulations or requirements. Idaho Power Company is subject to extensive federal and state laws, policies, and regulations, as well as regulatory actions and regulatory audits, including those of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the public utility commissions in Idaho, Oregon and Wyoming. Some of these regulations are changing or subject to interpretation, and failure to comply may result in penalties or other adverse consequences. Compliance with these requirements directly influences Idaho Power Company's operating environment and may significantly increase Idaho Power Company's operational costs. Pending shareholder litigation could be costly, time consuming and, if adversely decided, result in substantial liabilities. Two securities shareholder lawsuits consolidated by order dated August 31, 2004 have been filed against IDACORP, Inc. and four of its officers and directors. Securities litigation can be costly, time-consuming and disruptive to normal business operations. Costs below a self-insured retention are not covered by insurance policies. If these lawsuits are resolved against IDACORP, Inc. or settled out of court, the damages or settlement amounts in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of IDACORP, Inc. Increased capital expenditures can significantly affect liquidity. Increases in both the number of customers and the demand for energy require expansion and reinforcement of transmission, distribution and generating systems. If Idaho Power Company does not receive timely regulatory relief, Idaho Power Company will have to rely more on external financing for its future utility construction expenditures. These large planned expenditures may weaken the consolidated financial profile of IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company. Additionally, a significant portion of Idaho Power Company's facilities were constructed many years ago. Aging equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures. Failure of equipment or facilities used in Idaho Power Company's systems could potentially increase repair and maintenance expenses, purchased power expenses and capital expenditures. 11 Table of Contents As a holding company, IDACORP, Inc. does not have its own operating income and must rely on the upstream cash flows from its subsidiaries to pay dividends and make debt payments. IDACORP, Inc. is a holding company and thus its primary assets are shares or other ownership interests of its subsidiaries, primarily Idaho Power Company. Consequently, IDACORP, Inc.'s ability to pay dividends and its ability to service its debt is dependent upon dividends and other payments received from its subsidiaries. IDACORP, Inc.'s subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to IDACORP, Inc., whether through dividends, loans or other payments. The ability of IDACORP, Inc.'s subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to IDACORP, Inc. depends on several factors, including their actual and projected earnings and cash flow, capital requirements and general financial condition, and the prior rights of holders of their existing and future first mortgage bonds and other debt securities. A downgrade in IDACORP, Inc.'s and Idaho Power Company's credit ratings could negatively affect the companies' ability to access capital. On November 29, 2004, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, on December 3, 2004, Moody's Investors Service, and on January 24, 2005, Fitch, Inc. each downgraded IDACORP, Inc.'s and Idaho Power Company's credit ratings. On March 27, 2006, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services revised its general corporate credit rating outlooks for IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company to negative from stable. These downgrades and any future downgrades of IDACORP, Inc.'s or Idaho Power Company's credit ratings could limit the companies' ability to access the capital markets, including the commercial paper markets. In addition, IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate on existing short-term and variable rate debt and in future financings. Terrorist threats and activities could result in reduced revenues and increased costs. IDACORP, Inc. and Idaho Power Company are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities. Potential targets include generation and transmission facilities. The effects of terrorist threats and activities could prevent Idaho Power Company from purchasing, generating or transmitting power and result in reduced revenues and increased costs. Adverse results of income tax audits could reduce earnings and cash flows. Outcome of ongoing and future income tax audits could differ materially from the amounts currently recorded, and the difference could reduce IDACORP's and Idaho Power Company's earnings and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 12 Table of Contents 