Risk Factors Risks Related to the Interactive Entertainment Industry Manufacturers may fail to introduce or delay the introduction of new products, which could hurt our ability to attract and retain customers. We are highly dependent on the introduction of new and enhanced video game hardware and software and PC entertainment software by manufacturers for our success. If manufacturers fail to introduce or delay the introduction of new products, we would have difficulty attracting and retaining customers to buy the products we sell, which could adversely affect our business. Many of the factors that impact our ability to sell new products are beyond our control, including: •our dependence upon manufacturers to introduce new or enhanced video game systems; •our reliance upon continued technological development; •our dependence upon software publishers to develop popular game and entertainment titles for game systems or PCs; •the availability and timeliness of new product releases; and •the willingness of the consumer to trade in hardware and software. The interactive entertainment industry is cyclical, which could cause significant fluctuations in our earnings. Demand for video game systems and software fluctuates in relation to the introduction of next-generation hardware and related software titles. Manufacturers have historically introduced next-generation systems every four to five years. Sales volumes of new video game systems and related software titles are generally higher in the initial stages of the products' life cycles. As a product reaches the end of its life cycle, demand for the product will generally decline as our customers anticipate the introduction of next-generation products. If leading video game system manufacturers fail to continue to introduce next-generation systems, or fail to enhance existing systems on a periodic basis, our sales of hardware systems and related software titles will decrease, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If our vendors fail to provide marketing and merchandising support at historical levels, our sales and earnings could be negatively impacted. The manufacturers of video game hardware and software and PC entertainment software have typically provided retailers with significant marketing and merchandising support for their products. As part of this support, we receive cooperative advertising and market development payments from these 2 vendors. These cooperative advertising and market development payments enable us to actively promote and merchandise the products we sell and drive sales at our stores and on our website. We cannot assure you that vendors will continue to provide this support at historical levels. If they fail to do so, our sales and earnings could be negatively impacted. If we fail to keep pace with rapidly changing industry technology, we will be at a competitive disadvantage. The interactive entertainment industry is characterized by swiftly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new and enhanced product introductions and rapid product obsolescence. These characteristics require us to respond quickly to technological changes and to understand the impact of these changes on our customers' preferences. If we fail to keep pace with these changes, our business may suffer. In addition, some of these technological enhancements, such as the ability to download video games onto PCs or play games over the Internet through consoles, could reduce retail sales of video games and PC entertainment software. If advances in technology continue to expand our customers' ability to access software through other sources, our sales and earnings could be negatively impacted. Risks Related to Our Business If we fail to manage new store openings or renew existing locations as they expire, our operational and financial results could be negatively impacted. Our growth depends on our ability to open and operate new stores profitably. In fiscal 2005, we opened 479 new stores. We currently intend to open approximately 400 new stores in fiscal 2006. Our ability to open new stores in a timely and profitable manner depends upon many contingencies, including our ability to locate and lease suitable store sites, build out these sites on a timely and cost-effective basis, hire and train new associates and integrate these stores into our existing operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to achieve our planned expansion or that our new stores will achieve sales and profitability levels comparable to our existing stores. As of January 29, 2005, approximately 6% of our stores (122 of our 1,977 stores) were operated under leases with terms that expire in less than one year. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain these existing store locations as leases expire or that we will be able to locate suitable alternative sites with acceptable terms. If we do not compete effectively, we will lose customers and our earnings will decline. We face intense competition in the interactive entertainment industry. If we do not compete effectively, this could lead to reduced sales and profit margins. We compete with: •video game and PC software specialty stores; •mass merchants; •toy retail chains; •online retailers; •direct-to-consumer software publishers; •office supply, computer product and consumer electronics superstores; and •emerging alternative channels of distribution such as wireless distribution. Some of these competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, managerial, creative, sales and marketing and other resources than we have. In addition, the majority of our competitors currently do not buy or sell pre-played products. If more of our competitors choose 3 to enter this category, it may have a negative impact on our business. We also compete with other forms of entertainment activities, including movies, television, theater, sporting events and family entertainment centers. Our operating results fluctuate from period to period, which could result in a lower price for our common stock. Our business is affected by seasonal patterns. We historically generate our highest net sales and operating income during our fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday selling season. During fiscal 2005, we generated approximately 40.7% of our net sales and approximately 73.2% of our operating income during our fourth fiscal quarter. Accordingly, any adverse trend in sales during the holiday selling season could adversely affect our results of operations for our fourth fiscal quarter and our entire year. In addition to our dependence on fourth quarter sales, our results from operations fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending upon a variety of factors, most of which we cannot control. These include: •the timing of new product introductions; •the timing of new store openings; •general economic conditions; •price reductions on key products; •weather; •shifts in the timing of certain holidays or promotions; and •changes in our merchandise mix. These fluctuations make the prediction of our financial results on a quarterly basis difficult. If we fail to obtain products from our domestic and overseas suppliers, our sales and profits will be adversely affected. We rely heavily upon our suppliers to provide us with new products as quickly as possible. We purchase a significant amount of products from Electronic Arts, Inc., Nintendo Co., Ltd., Microsoft Corp., Sony Corporation and Take Two Interactive Software, Inc., and often receive shipments of new release products that are disproportionately large relative to our share of the overall consumer video game market. During fiscal 2005, our purchases from Electronic Arts, Nintendo, Microsoft, Sony and Take Two represented 14.0%, 12.0%, 10.3%, 9.3% and 7.1%, respectively, of our gross purchases. We believe that the loss of any of these suppliers could reduce our product offerings, which would cause us to be at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, our financial performance largely depends upon the business terms we obtain from our suppliers, including competitive prices, unsold product return policies, advertising and market development allowances, freight charges and payment terms. If we fail to maintain favorable business terms with our suppliers, our ability to offer products to consumers at competitive prices would be adversely affected. During fiscal 2005, approximately 32% of our domestic product purchases were of products manufactured outside of the United States, primarily in Asia. To the extent that our suppliers rely on overseas sources for their products, any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions, could adversely affect our business. Trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas, or both, applicable to the products we sell could also affect the importation of these products and could increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us. 4 If our distribution facilities and systems are inadequate, our business could suffer. We own or lease distribution centers in Pennsylvania and Kentucky as well as Canada, Australia, Sweden, New Zealand, Italy and Germany. If operations in any of these distribution facilities were to shut down for a prolonged period of time or if these facilities were unable to accommodate the continued store growth in a particular region, our business could suffer. If our management information systems fail to perform or are inadequate, our ability to manage our business could be disrupted. We rely on a warehouse management system used in our domestic distribution centers and an inventory replenishment system to track sales and inventory. Our systems allow us to execute our "first-to-market" new release strategy, to keep our stores in stock at optimum levels and to move inventory efficiently from our distribution centers to our stores. If our management information systems fail to adequately perform these functions, our business could be adversely affected. Our international operations expose us to numerous risks. We have international retail operations in Australia, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Italy, New Zealand, Norway and Sweden. Net sales in these foreign countries represented approximately 29% of our net sales in fiscal 2005. Because release schedules for hardware and software introduction in these countries often differ from release schedules in the United States, the timing of increases and decreases in foreign sales may differ from the timing of increases or decreases in domestic sales. We are also subject to a number of other factors that may affect our current or future international operations. These include: •economic downturns; •currency exchange rate fluctuations; •international incidents; •government instability; and •an increasing number of competitors entering our current and potential markets. We depend upon our key personnel and they would be difficult to replace. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain key management associates for our stores and skilled merchandising, marketing and administrative personnel at our headquarters. While we have been successful in maintaining the continuity of our management team, including our executive officers, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be successful retaining such personnel. If we fail to retain qualified key personnel, our business could suffer. If we fail to maintain an adequate system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which could cause current and potential stockholders to lose confidence in our financial reporting and in turn affect the trading price of our common stock. During fiscal 2004, we began a process to document and evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations, which require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. We cannot be certain that the measures we have taken to assess, document, improve and validate through testing the adequacy of our internal control process over financial reporting will ensure that we maintain such adequate controls over our financial reporting process in the future. Failure to implement required new controls could cause us to fail to 5 meet reporting obligations, which in turn could cause current and potential stockholders to lose confidence in our financial reporting. If we fail to successfully complete and integrate future acquisitions, our business could be negatively impacted. As part of our efforts to grow and compete, we may engage in acquisitions, both domestically and internationally. Our pursuit of future acquisitions is subject to our ability to negotiate favorable terms for these acquisitions. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that future acquisitions will be completed. In addition, to facilitate future acquisitions, we may take actions that could dilute the equity interests of our stockholders, increase our debt or cause us to assume contingent liabilities, all of which may have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. Finally, if any acquisitions are not successfully integrated with our business, our ongoing operations and results could be adversely affected. On January 30, 2004, we terminated the services agreement with The Game Group Plc (formerly The Electronics Boutique Plc), a specialty interactive entertainment retailer based in the United Kingdom. The termination agreement places restrictions on our ability to compete with Game Group in the United Kingdom and Ireland until February 2006. Other Risks The Kim family has significant control of our company and can make decisions that could adversely affect our stock price and prevent a change of control. The Kim family beneficially owns approximately 48.3% of our common stock. Accordingly, the Kim family effectively controls our company and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This control may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company and could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of any sale or acquisition. Our status as a holding company and our credit facility restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. We are a holding company and do not have any material assets other than our ownership interests in our subsidiaries. Our common stock will be junior in right of payment to all of our existing and future liabilities and obligations and, by virtue of the fact that we are a holding company, our common stock will be structurally junior in right of payment to all existing and future liabilities and obligations of each of our subsidiaries. We have not declared or paid dividends on our common stock since our initial public offering in July 1998. In addition, our credit facility with Fleet Retail Group restricts our ability to declare or pay dividends on our common stock. Our income taxes could increase in the future. Our corporate structure includes the use of Delaware holding companies and subsidiaries that hold our intellectual property and facilitate financing for our operations. Certain state taxing authorities have changed and others are still reviewing their positions with respect to income tax deductions taken as a result of these structures. If these income tax deductions resulting from our corporate structure continue to be disallowed in the future, the income taxes we pay could increase, which will negatively impact our earnings. 6 Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain anti-takeover protections, which may discourage or prevent a takeover of our company, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if a takeover would benefit our stockholders. Industry Overview The interactive entertainment industry is comprised of two primary product categories, video games and PC entertainment software. Video games. In 2004, domestic retail sales of video game software and hardware systems reached approximately $8.7 billion, down slightly from the prior year, according to data provided by NPD. The current generation of console hardware technology, including Sony's PlayStation 2, Microsoft's Xbox and Nintendo's GameCube, has been on the market approximately four years. The installed base of these systems grew to 47.9 million units in 2004 with corresponding software sales exceeding $5.1 billion, representing 11% growth over the prior year. This growth was lead by the release of the two largest title launches in the history of the industry, "Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas" from Take Two Interactive Software, Inc. for the PlayStation 2 and "Halo 2" from Microsoft for the Xbox. In addition, accessory sales for the three consoles grew 2% in 2004 to $1.0 billion. The current generation of handheld hardware technology is comprised of Nintendo's GameBoy Advance, released in 2001, and Nintendo's GameBoy Advance SP, released in March 2003. In 2004, the installed base of these handheld systems reached 27.3 million units with corresponding industry software sales growing 12% to $949 million. The next generation of handheld technology was launched with the release of the Nintendo DS in November 2004. The new system had domestic sales of 1.2 million units of hardware and software sales of $46.7 million. Sony entered the handheld market and released the PSP portable gaming system in March 2005. Calendar year 2005 is expected to be the transition year in the current video game cycle as the industry prepares for the launch of the next generation of technology. As customers wait in anticipation of the next generation of consoles, software and hardware sales of the current generation are expected to decline in 2005. With the two new portable systems on the market, sales of handheld software and hardware are expected to increase significantly over 2004, helping to offset the declines expected in current generation console sales. It is anticipated that Microsoft will release the next generation of the Xbox in the fourth quarter of 2005. Sony and Nintendo are expected to release their new consoles sometime in 2006. PC entertainment software. Domestic retail sales of PC entertainment software were approximately $925 million in calendar 2004, a 9.5% decrease from the prior year, according to NPD. We expect domestic PC entertainment software sales to continue to decline in 2005. Products Our product line consists of video game and PC entertainment software, video game hardware systems, pre-played software and hardware, accessories and related products. Our in-store inventory at any given time averages over 3,800 stock keeping units (SKU's). Video game and PC entertainment software. We carry a large selection of video game and PC entertainment software. We purchase titles from over 60 vendors, including the leading console manufacturers, Nintendo Co., Ltd., Sony Corporation and Microsoft Corp., as well as a variety of third-party software publishers, such as Electronic Arts, Inc., Take Two Interactive Software, Inc., 7 Activision, Inc., Atari Corp. and THQ Inc. We are one of the largest domestic customers of video game products sold by these publishers. Pre-played software and pre-played video game hardware. As a result of the proliferation of new titles and the tendency of gamers to seek new game challenges after mastering a particular title, a growing market for pre-played software has evolved. Also, with changes in hardware technology and a growing desire to own multiple gaming systems, a market for pre-played hardware has developed. We allow customers to trade in and purchase pre-played games and hardware in our stores. In return for a trade-in, customers can receive a store credit, which can be applied towards the purchase of new or pre-played products, or they can receive cash. Video game hardware. We sell the video game hardware systems of all major manufacturers, including Sony's PlayStation 2, Nintendo's GameCube, GameBoy Advance SP and DS and Microsoft's Xbox. Our pre-played program affords customers the opportunity to trade in older video game hardware towards the purchase of one of the latest systems. As a result, we also offer a wide range of the older video game systems. We also offer product replacement plans for the video game systems. Accessories. The growing number of video game systems has led to an increase in sales of accessory products, which generally have higher gross margins than hardware and software products. We currently offer approximately 350 accessory product SKU's, including controllers, memory cards, instructional books and strategy guides for the most popular video game titles. Related products. We offer an assortment of collectible action figures that appeal to our core customers as well as other gaming related products. In addition, we offer a variety of PC and video gaming magazines. Our Customers Based on data from The NPD Group 2004 Consumer Panel, our typical customer is a male between the ages of 18 and 34 with household income ranging from $25,000 to $75,000. We believe that our customers are often opinion leaders in the interactive entertainment industry, influencing the buying decisions of their friends and family. Competitive Strengths We seek to enhance our position as the leading global specialty retailer of interactive entertainment products by focusing on the following: Breadth of selection. Through our stores and our website, we offer our customers an extensive selection of video game software, compatible with all major video game hardware systems, which we also stock, as well as PC entertainment software. Our typical store offers over 1,500 SKU's, excluding pre-played games, at any given time across a variety of genres, including Action, Strategy, Adventure/Role Playing, Simulation, Sports, Children's Entertainment and Family Entertainment. We continuously update our title selection in each store to reflect the tastes and buying patterns of the store's local market. In addition to software and hardware, we offer a complementary line of PC and video game accessories and peripheral products. By offering a wide range of products, we seek to establish our stores and website as the destination of choice for gamers. Immediate availability of new releases. We strive to be the first in our markets to offer new video game and PC entertainment software titles upon their release. We will open our stores at midnight in connection with the launch of highly anticipated titles and will, when appropriate, ship select new releases to our stores on the same day as the title launch. We believe that vendors recognize the importance of our customer base and, consequently, often grant us disproportionately large allocations of new release products. 8 To ensure our customers have immediate access to new releases and the latest hardware, we offer our customers the "EB Pre-Sell Program" through which they can reserve video game and PC entertainment software and video game hardware for delivery upon our receipt and release of the product. On average, we introduce 20 new software SKU's in our stores and on our website each week. Pre-played products. We believe that the opportunity to trade in games and hardware and the availability for purchase of pre-played software and hardware in our stores is attractive to the value conscious gamer and differentiates us from most of our competition, which do not generally accept trade-ins or offer pre-played products. To support our pre-played business, we operate a product reclamation center that tests, cleans, re-labels, re-packages and re-distributes traded-in products to our stores. These trade-ins are then sold in our stores at a discount to the price of new products. Sales of pre-played games and hardware generate significantly higher margins than new products. The pre-played category has become our fastest growing product line, as we now carry over 1,900 pre-played SKU's in our typical store. We believe the growth of our pre-played business will be further enhanced as we continue to focus on establishing stores in strip-center locations where sales of pre-played products represent a larger percentage of the stores' sales. Competitive pricing. Our pre-played program allows customers to save money by trading in their pre-played games and hardware for cash or credit towards any product sold in our stores. The trade-ins are then resold to other customers at lower prices than our new products, offering a broader range of price choices to our customers. Knowledgeable sales associates. We believe that our knowledgeable sales associates, many of whom are gamers, and our higher level of customer service provide us with an important advantage over competitors such as mass merchants, retail toy chains, and office supply, computer product and consumer electronics superstores. We provide all of our sales associates with training and information on video game and PC entertainment products, system requirements and selling techniques through vendor-sponsored seminars, which are held for store managers and field managers, and through periodic training seminars for our sales associates. We also encourage our sales associates to learn about customers' game preferences. With this knowledge, sales associates are able to introduce customers to a selection of games and accessories that suit their preferences and are able to advise them of new releases suited to their interests, thereby enhancing our customers' overall gaming experience. Disciplined store operations. Our management team exercises significant control over all aspects of our store operations, including product research, purchasing, distribution, site selection, store development, Point-of-Sale ("POS") financial reporting and sales training. We believe that this commitment to operational control enables us to identify opportunities to improve store productivity and to react quickly to shifts in product pricing and consumer purchasing trends. We strive to increase the productivity of our stores by actively managing our payroll expense and operating our stores as efficiently as possible. We do this by utilizing our POS reporting systems to ensure the best possible match of sales associate floor coverage to customer traffic. Leadership in online retailing. The Internet represents a complementary channel to our store-based retail business. We operate an e-commerce site at www.ebgames.com, where we provide product reviews, user-friendly online purchasing and the ability to pre-order video game and PC entertainment software and video game hardware. Our website utilizes our merchandising expertise and strong vendor relationships to provide online customers with over 6,600 new and pre-played SKU's that are available for immediate shipping. In 2004, we implemented several initiatives designed to leverage our online capabilities to enhance our customers' overall shopping experience. Some of the new conveniences that 9 we offer are the ability to pre-order a product online with in-store pick up, the ability to see availability of a product at local stores and the ability to return products ordered online to one of our stores. We believe that Internet broadband technology will play an important role in the future of our industry. We continue to explore different ways to take a leadership role in the online distribution of video games. Adoption of this new technology by consumers has been limited to date. However, as adoption of this technology grows and other game delivery technologies emerge, we expect to actively pursue these opportunities. Highly effective inventory management. We do extensive research prior to the release of new products and carefully manage our inventory to minimize the risk associated with introducing new products. Our merchandising teams evaluate potential products and analyze the "EB Pre-Sell Program" information and other data to estimate initial demand and the projected life cycle for a new release. We then use this information to plan our initial purchases and allocations among our stores and website. We have a highly effective inventory management system which forecasts and actively manages our ongoing inventory requirements on an individual store basis, aggregates our total requirements and manages the daily replenishment function from our automated distribution centers to our stores. This results in improved in-stock levels in our stores which enables us to maximize sales and avoid markdowns. State-of-the-art management information systems. We use a combination of proprietary and "best of breed" information systems technology. These tools enable us to analyze total, comparative and new store sales and inventory data at the company, region, district and store levels. We believe our approach to business systems provides a strategic advantage by allowing us to make enhancements to meet business opportunities quickly and efficiently. Traffic counting technology is installed in a representative number of our stores, allowing us to evaluate store performance against traffic trends. Efficient distribution. We currently operate two distribution centers in the United States. Our 315,000 square foot facility in Sadsbury Township, Pennsylvania handles staple products, online fulfillment, returns and product reclamation. A 200,000 square foot distribution center in Louisville, Kentucky supports flow-through operations on new releases, top selling products and online fulfillment. We also operate a 120,000 square foot facility in Canada, a 70,000 square foot facility in Australia, an 80,000 square foot facility in Sweden and three smaller facilities in New Zealand, Italy and Germany. During fiscal 2006, we are planning to relocate our distribution centers in Italy and Germany to larger facilities to accommodate our continued growth. These distribution facilities allow us to replenish our stores on a daily basis supporting our "first-to-market" new-release strategy. Our distribution network also enables us to provide immediate delivery service to our online customers. Our rapid processing capability in our distribution centers is facilitated by several advanced inventory management technologies, including paperless picking and radio frequency support. We also use a warehouse management system in our domestic distribution centers that enables us to better manage labor and freight costs. Innovative marketing. Our stores are located in high traffic, high visibility areas in regional strip centers, shopping malls, urban areas and central business districts. Accordingly, our marketing efforts are designed to draw customers into our stores through the use of window displays and other attractions visible to shoppers in the mall and from the street. Inside all of our stores, we feature selected products through the use of vendor displays, signs, flyers, point of purchase materials and end-cap displays. To enhance the shopping experience, we offer our customers the opportunity to play the latest games and hardware at interactive gaming stations and we offer complementary in-store programming via "EBtv". A majority of these in-store efforts are funded through advertising allowances and market development funds from manufacturers, distributors, software publishers and accessory 10 suppliers. To provide additional value to our customers, we launched a new customer loyalty program, the EB EDGE Card, in August. Members of this program are entitled to receive a discount on pre-played product at our EB Games stores and website. We also actively publicize our stores through a variety of media, including print, web, radio and selected local television advertising. On an annual basis, we publish several full color vendor-funded freestanding inserts in top newspaper publications throughout the United States. Circulation for these inserts ranges from 5 million to 18 million, depending on the time of year. We also publish several full color catalogs during the year. Each catalog includes news, game reviews, event calendars and other related information, in addition to products available for purchase. Our vendors fund the cost of these publications which are available in our stores and are mailed to thousands of households from our proprietary customer lists. We believe our online presence plays a key role in strengthening our brand identity. Our online marketing programs enable us to access the broad reach of the Internet at a low cost. These initiatives focus on partnering with companies that operate professional websites, such as GameSpot.com. We also reach online gaming communities through our affiliate marketing program, which includes thousands of gaming affinity and commerce sites. Growth Strategy Our growth strategy is based on leveraging our competitive strengths and continuing our new store expansion. We believe that there are domestic and international opportunities for significant new store growth. Over the last five fiscal years, we have more than tripled our store base from 619 stores at the end of fiscal 2000 to 1,977 stores at the end of fiscal 2005. We plan to open approximately 400 new stores in fiscal 2006. Domestic opportunity. We plan to open approximately 200 new stores in fiscal 2006 in the United States. We are continuing our expansion in strip and power shopping centers, central business districts and urban areas. We expect our stores in these locations to require lower initial investments, generate higher gross margins on lower revenue and have a lower operating cost structure than our mall-based stores. These stores, which typically carry a wider assortment of pre-played video games than our mall-based stores, target the more value conscious gamer. International opportunity. In fiscal 2002, we began a store expansion program in Europe that included both the opening of new stores and the acquisition of regional chains. As of January 29, 2005, we operated a total of 520 stores in Australia, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Italy, New Zealand, Norway and Sweden. We plan to open approximately 200 new stores in fiscal 2006 in these markets. According to IDG, the interactive entertainment industry in Europe is approximately an $8.5 billion market with consumer demand characteristics similar to the U.S. market. We believe retail competition in the interactive entertainment industry is weaker throughout continental Europe than in the United States. There are very few specialty retail chains dedicated to interactive entertainment products in continental Europe and the existing specialty chains are small and undercapitalized, with little or no investment in distribution and information systems. Most video game software and hardware in Europe is sold through general merchandise stores that offer less service and a smaller product selection than our stores. We believe that our store model, merchandising expertise and strong vendor relationships should enable us to gain significant market share in our targeted continental European markets over the next several years. Retail Operations As of January 29, 2005, we operated a total of 1,977 stores in the United States, Australia, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Italy, New Zealand, Norway, Puerto Rico and Sweden, primarily under 11 the names EB Games and Electronics Boutique. In 2002, we began a program to re-brand all of our locations to EB Games. We have made significant progress towards this goal and we currently have over 87% of our stores operating under the EB Games brand. Store formats. Many of our stores are located in high traffic areas in regional shopping malls. As of January 29, 2005, we operated 945 stores under this format. These stores average approximately 1,190 square feet. In addition to our mall-based stores, we also operate many stores in strip and power centers, central business districts and urban areas. These stores are generally larger than our mall-based stores, averaging approximately 1,620 square feet. We began our expansion into these other locations in fiscal 2001, and as of January 29, 2005, we operated 1,032 stores under these formats. Store economics. The average cost, net of payables, of opening a new mall-based store in fiscal 2005 was approximately $141,000. This included approximately $117,000 for furniture, fixtures, equipment and leasehold improvements. The average cost, net of payables, of opening a new strip center store in fiscal 2005 was approximately $92,000. This included approximately $66,000 for furniture, fixtures, equipment and leasehold improvements. These average cost numbers do not include key money. Key money represents payments made to landlords, outgoing tenants or other third parties to enter into certain European store leases. Key money is capitalized and amortized over a period of five years. Typically, our new stores generate a positive cash contribution within the first 12 months of operations. We regularly review the profitability and prospects of each of our stores and evaluate whether any under-performing stores should be closed or relocated to more desirable locations. Following the opening of a store, we utilize inventory management and controls and manage store payroll in an effort to maximize profitability. Our POS and inventory management systems allow us to analyze merchandise mix and in-stock positions and reduce shrinkage. We also use various payroll management and efficiency systems to improve sales conversions and store profitability. Store operations. We divide our North American store base (United States, Puerto Rico and Canada) into 13 geographic regions, which are supervised by our Senior Vice President, President of Stores—North America, our Vice President of Store Operations (Canada), Zone Vice Presidents, Regional Vice Presidents/Directors, District Managers and store managers. Our Senior Vice President of International Operations, who is based in Europe, supervises our international operations other than in Canada. Managing Directors, District Managers and Area Managers supervise our stores in Denmark, Germany, Italy, Norway and Sweden. A General Manager, Regional Director, District Managers and Area Managers supervise our stores in Australia and New Zealand. Each of our stores typically has a full-time manager and a full-time assistant manager in addition to hourly sales associates, most of who work part-time. The number of hourly sales associates in each store fluctuates depending on our seasonal needs. Our domestic stores are open seven days per week and generally ten hours each day. We operate our international stores in a manner similar to our domestic stores. Vendors We purchase substantially all of our products directly from manufacturers and software publishers. Our top 10 vendors accounted for approximately 72% of our purchases in fiscal 2005. Our largest vendors in fiscal 2005 were Electronics Arts, Nintendo, Microsoft, Sony and Take Two, which accounted for 14.0%, 12.0%, 10.3%, 9.3% and 7.1%, respectively, of our gross purchases. No other vendor 12 accounted for more than 6.0% of our software or accessory purchases during fiscal 2005. We believe that we have good relationships with our vendors. Maintaining and strengthening these relationships is essential to our operations and continued expansion. We participate in marketing programs with each of our key vendors. Under these programs, we are eligible to receive marketing allowances, provided we perform certain specified marketing and merchandising events and activities pursuant to the terms of written agreements we negotiate with our vendors for each event or activity. Typical marketing events or activities for us include print advertising, television advertising, catalog advertising, in-store display promotions, Internet advertising and product training and promotion at our national trade show. Competition The interactive entertainment industry is intensely competitive and subject to rapid changes in consumer preferences and frequent new product introductions. We compete with other specialty retailers of video games and PC software, most notably GameStop. We also compete with mass merchants, such as Wal-Mart and Target, toy retail chains, catalogs, direct sales by software publishers, online retailers and office supply, computer product and consumer electronics superstores such as Best Buy. In addition, video games are available for rental or purchase at many video stores. Further, other methods of distribution may emerge in the future, resulting in increased competition. Employees As of January 29, 2005, we had approximately 11,800 non-seasonal employees. Approximately 5,100 were employed on a part-time basis, and 1,400 were employed on a temporary basis. In addition, during the calendar 2004 peak holiday shopping season, we hired approximately 1,700 temporary associates. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. Except for a limited number of employees in Sweden, none of our employees are represented by a labor union or are members of a collective bargaining unit. Game Group Services Agreement On January 30, 2004, we terminated the services agreement with Game Group. As part of the agreement to terminate the services agreement, Game Group paid us $15.0 million in February 2004. The termination agreement places restrictions on our ability to compete with Game Group in the United Kingdom and Ireland until February 2006. Seasonality Our business, like many retailers, is seasonal with significant percentages of our sales and operating profit being generated in our fourth fiscal quarter and, in particular, the holiday selling season. During fiscal 2005, we generated approximately 40.7% of our net sales and approximately 73.2% of our operating profit in our fourth quarter. If we were to experience any adverse sales trends in our fourth quarter, our results of operations for the quarter and full fiscal year could be adversely affected. Environmental Matters Under various federal, state and local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or occupant of real property may become liable for fines as well as the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous substances present or generated at the premises, at times without regard to fault. Although we have not been notified of, and are not aware of, any current environmental liability, claim or non-compliance, it is possible that we may incur fines or remediation costs in the future. 13 Trademarks/Registrations We possess registered trademarks for Electronics Boutique®, EB® and EBX® as well as other registered trademarks and service marks, both in the United States and in certain foreign jurisdictions. We also have numerous trademark applications pending to register other proprietary trademarks, including EB Games and ebgames.com, in the United States and in certain foreign jurisdictions. We believe our trademarks are valid and valuable and we intend to maintain our trademarks and their related registrations. We do not know of any pending claims of infringement or other challenges to our right to use our marks in the United States or elsewhere. We have no patents, licenses, franchises or other intellectual property rights that are material to our operations. Code of Ethics We have adopted a code of ethics, the Code of Ethical Conduct for Officers, Directors and Associates of Electronics Boutique, which applies to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Controller, all other employees of Electronics Boutique and each of the members of our Board of Directors. The Code of Ethical Conduct was approved by our Audit Committee in December 2003 and ratified by our Board of Directors in April 2004. Our Code of Ethical Conduct is included as an exhibit to our SEC filings and posted on our website, which is located at www.ebholdings.com. We will also disclose any amendments or waivers to our Code of Ethical Conduct on our website. Item 1A. Executive Officers of the Company Set forth below is information regarding the executive officers of the Company: Name Age Position Jeffrey W. Griffiths 54 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director John R. Panichello 43 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer James A. Smith 49 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary Seth P. Levy 47 Senior Vice President, Logistics and Chief Information Officer; President, EB Games Online Steven R. Morgan 53 Senior Vice President, President of Stores — North America and President of Electronics Boutique Canada Inc. Mr. Griffiths has served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of Electronics Boutique and as a Director since June 2001. Prior thereto, he served as Senior Vice President of Merchandising and Distribution from March 1998 to June 2001. Mr. Griffiths served as Senior Vice President of Merchandising and Distribution of EB, our predecessor, from March 1996 to March 1998. From March 1987 to February 1996, Mr. Griffiths served as Vice President of Merchandising of EB, and from April 1984 to February 1987, he served as Merchandise Manager. Since October 2003, Mr. Griffiths has been a member of the Board of Trustees of Albright College. Mr. Griffiths also serves on the Board of Directors of Philadelphia Academies. Mr. Panichello has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since April 2002. Prior thereto, Mr. Panichello served as Senior Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, President of EB GameWorld and BC Sports Collectibles (a former division of Electronics Boutique) and Secretary of Electronics Boutique from June 2001 to April 2002. Mr. Panichello served as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, President of EB GameWorld and BC Sports Collectibles and Secretary of Electronics Boutique from June 2000 to June 2001. Mr. Panichello served as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, President of BC Sports Collectibles and Secretary of Electronics Boutique from March 1998 to June 2000. Mr. Panichello served as the Senior Vice President of 14 Finance of EB and the President of the BC Sports Collectibles division from March 1997 to February 1998. Mr. Panichello served as EB's Vice President of Finance and Treasurer from June 1994 to February 1997. Mr. Panichello served as a director of Game Group from May 1995 to November 1999. Mr. Panichello is a Certified Public Accountant. Mr. Panichello is the husband of Susan Y. Kim and the son-in-law of James J. Kim. Mr. Panichello serves on the Board of Directors of the Interactive Entertainment Merchants Association. Mr. Smith has served as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary since June 2001. Prior thereto, Mr. Smith served as Senior Vice President of Finance of Electronics Boutique from August 2000 to June 2001. Mr. Smith served as Electronics Boutique's Vice President-Finance from May 1998 to August 2000. From 1996 to 1998, Mr. Smith served as Vice President and Controller of EB, our predecessor, and from 1993 to March 1996, he served as Controller of EB. Mr. Levy has served as Senior Vice President, Logistics, Chief Information Officer and the President of EB Games Online since June 2001. From March 1999 to June 2001, Mr. Levy served as Senior Vice President, Chief Information Officer and the President of EB Games Online. From February 1997 to March 1999, Mr. Levy served as the Vice President and Chief Information Officer. From 1991 to February 1997, Mr. Levy served as the Director of System Development for the May Merchandising and May Department Stores International divisions of May Department Stores. Mr. Morgan has served as Senior Vice President, President of Stores—North America and President of Electronics Boutique Canada Inc. since April 2002. Prior thereto, Mr. Morgan served as Senior Vice President of Stores of Electronics Boutique and Canadian Operations from June 2001 to April 2002. Mr. Morgan served as Senior Vice President of Stores of Electronics Boutique from January 2001 to June 2001. From May 1998 to January 2001, Mr. Morgan served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Millennium Futures, Inc., a commodity trading company. From July 1996 to May 1998, he served as Senior Vice President, Director of Stores at Filene's Department Stores. From May 1988 to July 1996, he served as Regional Vice President at Filene's Department Stores. 