Risk Factors Certain risk factors that may affect the Corporation’s future results of operations are discussed below. RISK RELATING TO THE CORPORATION’S BUSINESS Credit quality, which is continuing to deteriorate, may result in future additional losses. The quality of First BanCorp’s credits has continued to be under pressure as a result of continued recessionary conditions in Puerto Rico and the state of Florida that have led to, among other things, higher unemployment levels, much lower absorption rates for new residential construction projects and further declines in property values. The Corporation’s business depends on the creditworthiness of its customers and counterparties and the value of the assets securing its loans or underlying our investments. When the credit quality of the customer base materially decreases or the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers changes materially, the Corporation’s business, financial condition, allowance levels, asset impairments, liquidity, capital and results of operations are adversely affected. While the Corporation has substantially increased our allowance for loan and lease losses in 2009, there is no certainty that it will be sufficient to cover future credit losses in the portfolio because of continued adverse changes in the economy, market conditions or events negatively affecting specific customers, industries or markets both in Puerto Rico and Florida. The Corporation periodically review the allowance for loan and lease losses for adequacy considering economic conditions and trends, collateral values and credit quality indicators, including charge-off experience and levels of past due loans and non-performing assets. First BanCorp’s future results may be materially and adversely affected by worsening defaults and severity rates related to the underlying collateral. The Corporation may have more credit risk and higher credit losses due to its construction loan portfolio. The Corporation has a significant construction loan portfolio, in the amount of $1.49 billion as of December 31, 2009, mostly secured by commercial and residential real estate properties. Due to their nature, these loans entail a higher credit risk than consumer and residential mortgage loans, since they are larger in size, concentrate more risk in a single borrower and are generally more sensitive to economic downturns. Rapidly changing collateral values, general economic conditions and numerous other factors continue to create volatility in the housing markets and have increased the possibility that additional losses may have to be recognized with respect to the Corporation’s current nonperforming assets. Furthermore, given the current slowdown in the real estate market, the properties securing these loans may be difficult to dispose of if they are foreclosed. The Corporation is subject to default risk on loans, which may adversely affect its results. The Corporation is subject to the risk of loss from loan defaults and foreclosures with respect to the loans it originates. The Corporation establishes a provision for loan losses, which leads to reductions in its income from operations, in order to maintain its allowance for inherent loan losses at a level which its management deems to be appropriate based upon an assessment of the quality of the loan portfolio. Although the Corporation’s management utilizes its best judgment in providing for loan losses, there can be no assurance that management has accurately estimated the level of inherent loan losses or that the Corporation will not have to increase its provision for loan losses in the future as a result of future increases in non-performing loans or for other reasons beyond its control. 30 Table of Contents Any such increases in the Corporation’s provision for loan losses or any loan losses in excess of its provision for loan losses would have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s future financial condition and results of operations. Given the difficulties facing some of the Corporation’s largest borrowers, the Corporation can give no assurance that these borrowers will continue to repay their loans on a timely basis or that the Corporation will continue to be able to accurately assess any risk of loss from the loans to these financial institutions. Changes in collateral valuation for properties located in stagnant or distressed economies may require increased reserves. Substantially all of the loan portfolio of the Corporation is located within the boundaries of the U.S. economy. Whether the collateral is located in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands or the U.S. mainland, the performance of the Corporation’s loan portfolio and the collateral value backing the transactions are dependent upon the performance of and conditions within each specific real estate market. Recent economic reports related to the real estate market in Puerto Rico indicate that certain pockets of the real estate market are subject to readjustments in value driven not by demand but more by the purchasing power of the consumers and general economic conditions. In South Florida, we have been seeing the negative impact associated with low absorption rates and property value adjustments due to overbuilding. A significant decline in collateral valuations for collateral dependent loans may require increases in the Corporation’s specific provision for loan losses and an increase in the general valuation allowance. Any such increase would have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s future financial condition and results of operations. Worsening in the financial condition of critical counterparties may result in higher losses than expected. The financial stability of several counterparties is critical for their continued financial performance on covenants that require the repurchase of loans, posting of collateral to reduce our credit exposure or replacement of delinquent loans. Many of these transactions expose the Corporation to credit risk in the event of a default by one of the Corporation’s counterparties. Any such losses could adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Interest rate shifts may reduce net interest income. Shifts in short-term interest rates may reduce net interest income, which is the principal component of the Corporation’s earnings. Net interest income is the difference between the amount received by the Corporation on its interest-earning assets and the interest paid by the Corporation on its interest-bearing liabilities. When interest rates rise, the Corporation must pay more in interest on its liabilities while the interest earned on its assets does not rise as quickly. This may cause the Corporation’s profits to decrease. This adverse impact on earnings is greater when the slope of the yield curve flattens, that is, when short-term interest rates increase more than long-term rates. Increases in interest rates may reduce the value of holdings of securities. Fixed-rate securities acquired by the Corporation are generally subject to decreases in market value when interest rates rise, which may require recognition of a loss (e.g., the identification of other-than-temporary impairment on its available for sale or held to maturity investments portfolio), thereby adversely affecting the results of operations. Market-related reductions in value also affect the capabilities of financing these securities. Increases in interest rates may reduce demand for mortgage and other loans. Higher interest rates increase the cost of mortgage and other loans to consumers and businesses and may reduce demand for such loans, which may negatively impact the Corporation’s profits by reducing the amount of loan origination income. Accelerated prepayments may adversely affect net interest income. Net interest income of future periods may be affected by the acceleration in prepayments of mortgage-backed securities. Acceleration in the prepayments of mortgage-backed securities would lower yields on securities purchased at a premium, as the amortization of premiums paid upon acquisition of these securities would accelerate. 31 Table of Contents Conversely, acceleration in the prepayments of mortgage-backed securities would increase yields on securities purchased at a discount, as the amortization of the discount would accelerate. Also, net interest income in future periods might be affected by the Corporation’s investment in callable securities. Approximately $945 million of U.S. Agency debentures with an average yield of 5.82% were called during 2009. The Corporation re-invested the proceeds of the securities calls in callable Agency debentures of approximately 2.7 years average final maturity with a weighted average yield to maturity of 2.12%. Decreases in interest rates may increase the probability embedded call options in investment securities are exercised. Future net interest income could be affected by the Corporation’s holding of callable securities. The recent drop in long-term interest rates has the effect of increasing the probability of the exercise of embedded calls in U.S. Agency securities portfolio of approximately $1.1 billion that if substituted with new lower-yield investments may negatively impact the Corporation’s interest income. Decreases in interest rates may reduce net interest income due to the current unprecedented re-pricing mismatch of assets and liabilities tied to short-term interest rates, which is referred to as basis risk. Basis risk occurs when market rates for different financial instruments or the indices used to price assets and liabilities, change at different times or by different amounts. The liquidity crisis that erupted in late 2008, and that slowly began to subside during 2009 caused a wider than normal spread between brokered CD costs and LIBOR rates for similar terms. This in turn, has prevented the Corporation from capturing the full benefit of drops in interest rates as the Corporation’s loan portfolio, funded by LIBOR-based brokered CDs, continue to maintain the same spread to short-term LIBOR rates, while the spread on brokered CD’s widened. To the extent that such pressures fail to subside in the near future, the margin between the Corporation’s LIBOR-based assets and LIBOR-based liabilities may compress and adversely affect net interest income. If all or a significant portion of the unrealized losses in our investment securities portfolio on our consolidated balance sheet were determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired, we would recognize a material charge to our earnings and our capital ratios would be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2009, the Corporation recognized $1.7 million in other than temporary impairments. To the extent that any portion of the unrealized losses in its investment securities portfolio is determined to be other than temporary, and the loss is related to credit factors, the Corporation recognizes a charge to earnings in the quarter during which such determination is made and capital ratios could be adversely affected. If any such charge is significant, a rating agency might downgrade the Corporation’s credit rating or put it on credit watch. Even if the Corporation does not determine that the unrealized losses associated with this portfolio requires an impairment charge, increases in these unrealized losses adversely affect the tangible common equity ratio, which may adversely affect credit rating agency and investor sentiment towards the Corporation. This negative perception also may adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to access the capital markets or might increase the cost of capital. As of December 31, 2009, the Corporation recognized other-than-temporary impairment on its private label MBS. Valuation and other-than-temporary impairment determinations will continue to be affected by external market factors including default rates, severity rates and macro-economic factors. Downgrades in the Corporation’s credit ratings could further increase the cost of borrowing funds. Both, the Corporation and the Bank suffered credit rating downgrades in 2009. Fitch Ratings Ltd. (“Fitch”) currently rates the Corporation’s long-term senior debt “B-,” six notches below investment grade. Standard and Poors rates the Corporation B, or five notches below investment grade. Moody’s Investor Service (“Moodys”) rates FirstBank’s long-term senior debt “B1,” and Standard & Poor’s rates it “B”. The three rating agencies’ outlooks on FirstBank and the Corporation’s credit ratings are negative. The Corporation does not have any outstanding debt or derivative agreements that would be affected by a credit downgrade. The Corporation’s liquidity is contingent upon its ability to obtain external sources of funding to finance its operations. Any future downgrades in credit ratings could put additional pressure on the Corporation’s access to external funding and/or cause external funding to be more expensive, which could in turn adversely affect the results of operations. Changes in credit ratings may also 32 Table of Contents affect the fair value of certain liabilities and unsecured derivatives, measured at fair value in the financial statements, for which the Corporation’s own credit risk is an element considered in the fair value determination. These debt and financial strength ratings are current opinions of the rating agencies. As such, they may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies as a result of changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances. The Corporation’s funding is significantly dependent on brokered deposits. The Corporation’s funding sources include core deposits, brokered deposits, borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank, borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank and repurchase agreements with several counterparties. A large portion of the Corporation’s funding is retail brokered CDs issued by FirstBank. As of December 31, 2009, the Corporation had $7.6 billion in brokered deposits outstanding, representing approximately 60% of our total deposits, and a reduction from $8.4 billion at year end 2008. The Corporation issues brokered CDs to, among other things, pay operating expenses, maintain our lending activities, replace certain maturing liabilities, and to control interest rate risk. FDIC regulations govern the issuance of brokered deposit instruments by banks. Well-capitalized institutions are not subject to limitations on brokered deposits, while adequately-capitalized institutions are able to accept, renew or rollover brokered deposits only with a waiver from the FDIC and subject to certain restrictions on the interest paid on such deposits. Undercapitalized institutions are not permitted to accept brokered deposits. As of December 31, 2009, the Corporation was a well-capitalized institution and was therefore not subject to these limitations on brokered deposits. If the Corporation became subject to such restrictions on its brokered deposits, the availability of such deposits would be limited and could, in turn, adversely affect the results of operations and the liquidity of the Corporation. The FDIC and other bank regulators may also exercise regulatory discretion to enforce limits on the acceptance of brokered deposits if they have safety and soundness concerns as to an over reliance on such funding. The use of brokered CDs has been particularly important for the growth of the Corporation. The Corporation encounters intense competition in attracting and retaining regular retail deposits in Puerto Rico. The brokered CDs market is very competitive and liquid, and the Corporation has been able to obtain substantial amounts of funding in short periods of time. This strategy enhances the Corporation’s liquidity position, since the brokered CDs are insured by the FDIC up to regulatory limits and can be obtained faster compared to regular retail deposits. Demand for brokered CDs has recently increased as a result of the move by investors from riskier investments, such as equities, to federally guaranteed instruments such as brokered CDs and the recent increase in FDIC deposit insurance from $100,000 to $250,000. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Corporation issued $8.3 billion in brokered CDs (including rollover of short-term broker CDs and replacement of brokered CDs called) compared to $9.8 billion for the 2008 year. The average term to maturity of the retail brokered CDs outstanding as of December 31, 2009 was approximately 1.08 years. Approximately 1.55% of the principal value of these certificates is callable at the Corporation’s option. Another source of funding is Advances from the Discount Window of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Currently, the Corporation has $800 million of borrowings outstanding with the Federal Reserve Bank. As part of the mechanisms to ease the liquidity crisis, during 2009 the Federal Reserve Bank encouraged banks to utilize the Discount Window as a source of funding. With the market conditions improving, the Federal Reserve announced in early 2010 its intention of withdrawing part of the economic stimulus measures, including replacing restrictions on the use of Discount Window borrowings, thereby returning to its function of lender of last resort. The Corporation’s funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits and support future growth. The Corporation’s banking subsidiary relies on customer deposits, brokered deposits and advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) to fund its operations. Although the Bank has historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, no assurance can be given that it would be able to replace these funds in the future if the Corporation’s financial condition or general market conditions were to change. The Corporation’s 33 Table of Contents financial flexibility will be severely constrained if the Bank is unable to maintain access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if the Corporation is required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, revenues may not increase proportionately to cover costs. In this case, profitability would be adversely affected. Although the Corporation considers such sources of funds adequate for its liquidity needs, the Corporation may seek additional debt financing in the future to achieve its long-term business objectives. There can be no assurance additional borrowings, if sought, would be available to the Corporation or, on what terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, growth and future prospects could be adversely affected. Adverse credit market conditions may affect the Corporation’s ability to meet liquidity needs. The Corporation needs liquidity to, among other things, pay its operating expenses, interest on its debt and dividends on its capital stock, maintain its lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, the Corporation may be forced to curtail its operations. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit and the Corporation’s credit ratings and credit capacity. The Corporation’s financial condition and cash flows could be materially affected by continued disruptions in financial markets. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, our risk management policies and procedures may be inadequate, and operational risk could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. The Corporation may fail to identify and manage risks related to a variety of aspects of its business, including, but not limited to, operational risk, interest-rate risk, trading risk, fiduciary risk, legal and compliance risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. The Corporation has adopted various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risk. While the Corporation currently believes that its risk management process is effective, the Corporation cannot provide assurance that those controls, procedures, policies and systems will always be adequate to identify and manage the risks in the various businesses. In addition, the Corporation’s businesses and the markets in which it operates are continuously evolving. The Corporation may fail to fully understand the implications of changes in its businesses or the financial markets and fail to adequately or timely enhance its risk framework to address those changes. If the Corporation’s risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to keep pace with changes in the financial markets or its businesses or for other reasons, the Corporation could incur losses, suffer reputational damage or find itself out of compliance with applicable regulatory mandates or expectations. The Corporation may also be subject to disruptions from external events that are wholly or partially beyond its control, which could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market settlement functions. In addition, our customers, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. Should these events affect us, or the customers, vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our consolidated results of operations could be negatively affected. When we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies related to operational losses, we may be unable to accurately estimate our potential exposure, and any reserves we establish to cover operational losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition for the periods in which we recognize the losses. Competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and/or retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and we may not be able to hire people or retain them, particularly in light of uncertainty concerning evolving compensation restrictions applicable to banks but not applicable to other financial services firms. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could adversely affect our business because the loss of their skills, knowledge of our markets, and years of industry experience and, in some cases, because of the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Similarly, the loss of key employees, either individually or as a group, can adversely affect our customers’ perception of our ability to continue to manage certain types of investment management mandates. 34 Table of Contents Banking regulators could take adverse action against the Corporation. The Corporation is subject to supervision and regulation by the FED. The Corporation is a bank holding company that qualifies as a financial holding corporation. As such, the Corporation is permitted to engage in a broader spectrum of activities than those permitted to bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. To continue to qualify as a financial holding corporation, each of the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries must continue to qualify as “well-capitalized” and “well-managed.” As of December 31, 2009, the Corporation and the Bank continue to satisfy all applicable capital guidelines. This, however, does not prevent banking regulators from taking adverse actions against the Corporation if they should conclude that such actions are warranted. If the Corporation were not to continue to qualify as a financial holding corporation, it might be required to discontinue certain activities and may be prohibited from engaging in new activities without prior regulatory approval. The Bank is subject to supervision and regulation by the FDIC, which conducts annual inspections, and, in Puerto Rico the OCIF. The primary regulators of the Corporation and the Bank have significant discretion and power to initiate enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties and may do so even if the Corporation and the Bank continue to satisfy all capital requirements. Adverse action against the Corporation and/or the Bank by their primary regulators may affect their businesses. Further increases in the FDIC deposit insurance premium may have a significant financial impact on the Corporation. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions up to certain limits. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”). Current economic conditions have resulted in higher bank failures and expectations of future bank failures. In the event of a bank failure, the FDIC takes control of a failed bank and ensures payment of deposits up to insured limits (which have recently been increased) using the resources of the DIF. The FDIC is required by law to maintain adequate funding of the DIF, and the FDIC may increase premium assessments to maintain such funding. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC determined that it would assess higher rates for institutions that relied significantly on secured liabilities or on brokered deposits but, for well-managed and well-capitalized banks, only when accompanied by rapid asset growth. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule imposing a 5 basis-point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule imposing a 13-quarter prepayment of FDIC premiums due on December 30, 2009. Although FirstBank obtained a waiver from the FDIC to make such prepayment, the FDIC may further increase our premiums or impose additional assessments or prepayment requirements on the Corporation in the future. The Corporation may not be able to recover all assets pledged to Lehman Brothers Special Financing, Inc. Lehman Brothers Special Financing, Inc. (“Lehman”) was the counterparty to the Corporation on certain interest rate swap agreements. During the third quarter of 2008, Lehman failed to pay the scheduled net cash settlement due to the Corporation, which constitutes an event of default under those interest rate swap agreements. The Corporation terminated all interest rate swaps with Lehman and replaced them with other counterparties under similar terms and conditions. In connection with the unpaid net cash settlement due as of December 31, 2009 under the swap agreements, the Corporation has an unsecured counterparty exposure with Lehman, which filed for bankruptcy on October 3, 2008, of approximately $1.4 million. This exposure was reserved in the third quarter of 2008. The Corporation had pledged collateral of $63.6 million with Lehman to guarantee its performance under the swap agreements in the event payment thereunder was required. The book value of pledged securities with Lehman as of December 31, 2009 amounted to approximately $64.5 million. The Corporation believes that the securities pledged as collateral should not be part of the Lehman bankruptcy estate given that the posted collateral constituted a performance guarantee under the swap agreements and was not part of a financing agreement, and that ownership of the securities was never transferred to Lehman. Upon termination of the interest rate swap agreements Lehman’s obligation was to return the collateral to the Corporation. During the fourth quarter of 2009, the Corporation discovered that Lehman Brothers, Inc., acting as agent of 35 Table of Contents Lehman, had deposited the securities in a custodial account at JP Morgan/Chase, and that, shortly before the filing of the Lehman bankruptcy proceedings, it had provided instructions to have most of the securities transferred to Barclay’s Capital in New York. After Barclay’s refusal to turn over the securities, the Corporation, during the month of December, 2009, filed a lawsuit against Barclay’s Capital in federal court in New York demanding the return of the securities. While the Corporation believes it has valid reasons to support its claim for the return of the securities, there are no assurances that it will ultimately succeed in its litigation against Barclay’s Capital to recover all or a substantial portion of the securities. Additionally, the Corporation continues to pursue its claim filed in January 2009 in the proceedings under the Securities Protection Act with regard to Lehman Brothers Incorporated in Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York. The Corporation can provide no assurances that it will be successful in recovering all or substantial portion of the securities through these proceedings. Our businesses may be adversely affected by litigation. From time to time, our customers, or the government on their behalf, may make claims and take legal action relating to our performance of fiduciary or contractual responsibilities. We may also face employment lawsuits or other legal claims. In any such claims or actions, demands for substantial monetary damages may be asserted against us resulting in financial liability or having an adverse effect on our reputation among investors or on customer demand for our products and services. We may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure to litigation risk when we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies. As a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements or judgments may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In the ordinary course of our business, we are also subject to various regulatory, governmental and law enforcement inquiries, investigations and subpoenas. These may be directed generally to participants in the businesses in which we are involved or may be specifically directed at us. In regulatory enforcement matters, claims for disgorgement, the imposition of penalties and the imposition of other remedial sanctions are possible. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal actions and regulatory matters, we cannot provide assurance as to the outcome of any pending matter or, if determined adversely against us, the costs associated with any such matter, particularly where the claimant seeks very large or indeterminate damages or where the matter presents novel legal theories, involves a large number of parties or is at a preliminary stage. The resolution of certain pending legal actions or regulatory matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations for the quarter in which such actions or matters are resolved or a reserve is established. Further information with respect to the foregoing and our other ongoing litigation matters is provided in Legal Proceedings included under Item 3 herein. Our businesses may be negatively affected by adverse publicity or other reputational harm. Our relationships with many of our customers are predicated upon our reputation as a fiduciary and a service provider that adheres to the highest standards of ethics, service quality and regulatory compliance. Adverse publicity, regulatory actions, litigation, operational failures, the failure to meet customer expectations and other issues with respect to one or more of our businesses could materially and adversely affect our reputation, ability to attract and retain customers or sources of funding for the same or other businesses. Preserving and enhancing our reputation also depends on maintaining systems and procedures that address known risks and regulatory requirements, as well as our ability to identify and mitigate additional risks that arise due to changes in our businesses, the market places in which we operate, the regulatory environment and customer expectations. If any of these developments has a material adverse effect on our reputation, our business will suffer. 36 Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect the Corporation’s financial statements. The Corporation’s financial statements are subject to the application of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (“GAAP”), which is periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time, the Corporation is required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by FASB. Market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to promulgate new requirements that further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in the Corporation’s annual and quarterly reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. An assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, the effects on the Corporation’s financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting standards that the Corporation is required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that the Corporation applies to its consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation may need additional capital resources in the future and these capital resources may not be available when needed or at all. Due to financial results during 2009 the Corporation may need to access the capital markets in order to raise additional capital in the future to absorb potential future credit losses due to the distressed economic environment, maintain adequate liquidity and capital resources or to finance future growth, investments or strategic acquisitions. The Corporation cannot provide assurances that such capital will be available on acceptable terms or at all. If the Corporation is unable to obtain additional capital, it may not be able to maintain adequate liquidity and capital resources or to finance future growth, make strategic acquisitions or investments. Unexpected losses in future reporting periods may require the Corporation to adjust the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. The Corporation evaluates the deferred tax assets for recoverability based on all available evidence. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws or variances between the future projected operating performance and the actual results. The Corporation is required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if the Corporation determines, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In determining the more-likely-than-not criterion, the Corporation evaluates all positive and negative evidence as of the end of each reporting period. Future adjustments, either increases or decreases, to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance will be determined based upon changes in the expected realization of the net deferred tax assets. The realization of the deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in either the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law. Due to significant estimates utilized in establishing the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is reasonably possible that the Corporation will be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance in future reporting periods. Such a charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and capital position. If the Corporation’s goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, it may adversely affect the operating results. If the Corporation’s goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired the Corporation may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, the Corporation reviews its amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicated the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of the goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in the industry. The goodwill impairment evaluation process requires the Corporation to make estimates and assumptions with regards to the fair value of the reporting units. Actual values may differ significantly from these estimates. Such differences could result in future impairment of goodwill that would, in turn, negatively impact the Corporation’s results of operations and the reporting unit where goodwill is recorded. The Corporation conducted its annual evaluation of goodwill during the fourth quarter of 2009. This evaluation is a two-step process. The Step 1 evaluation of goodwill allocated to the Florida reporting unit, which is one level below the United States business segment, indicated potential impairment of goodwill. The Step 1 fair value for the unit was below the carrying amount of its equity book value as of the December 31, 2009 valuation date, requiring the completion of Step 2. The Step 2 required a valuation of all assets and liabilities of the Florida unit, including any recognized and unrecognized intangible assets, to determine the fair value of net assets. To complete Step 2, the Corporation subtracted from the unit’s Step 1 fair value the determined fair value of the net assets to arrive at the implied fair value of goodwill. The results of the Step 2 analysis indicated that the implied fair value of goodwill exceeded the goodwill carrying value of $27 million, resulting in no goodwill impairment. If the Corporation is required to record a charge to earnings in the consolidated financial statements because an impairment of the goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, the Corporation’s results of operations could be adversely affected. 37 Table of Contents RISK RELATED TO BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND OUR INDUSTRY Difficult market conditions have affected the financial industry and may adversely affect the Corporation in the future. Given that almost all of our business is in Puerto Rico and the United States and given the degree of interrelation between Puerto Rico’s economy and that of the United States, the Corporation is particularly exposed to downturns in the U.S. economy. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past few years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial banks and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital from private and government entities, to merge with larger and stronger financial institutions and, in some cases, fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets in general and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, erosion of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity in general. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and erosion of confidence in the financial markets has already adversely affected our industry and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation does not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on the Corporation and other financial institutions. In particular, the Corporation may face the following risks in connection with these events: • The Corporation expects to face increased regulation of the financial industry resulting from the recent instability in capital markets, financial institutions and financial system in general. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • The Corporation’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite the loans become less predictive of future behaviors. • The models used to estimate losses inherent in the credit exposure require difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of the borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation and which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the models. • The Corporation’s ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in sales of mortgage loans to third parties (including mortgage loan securitization transactions with government-sponsored entities) on favorable terms, or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including deteriorating investor expectations. • Competitive dynamics in the industry could change as a result of consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. A prolonged economic slowdown or decline in the real estate market in the U.S. mainland could continue to harm the results of operations. The residential mortgage loan origination business has historically been cyclical, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of shrinking volumes and industry-wide losses. The market for residential mortgage loan originations is currently in decline and this trend could also reduce the level of mortgage 38 Table of Contents loans the Corporation may produce in the future and adversely affect our business. During periods of rising interest rates, refinancing originations for many mortgage products tend to decrease as the economic incentives for borrowers to refinance their existing mortgage loans are reduced. In addition, the residential mortgage loan origination business is impacted by home values. Over the past eighteen months, residential real estate values in many areas of the U.S. mainland have decreased significantly, which has led to lower volumes and higher losses across the industry, adversely impacting our mortgage business. The actual rates of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on loans have been higher during the current economic slowdown. Rising unemployment, higher interest rates or declines in housing prices have had a greater negative effect on the ability of borrowers to repay their mortgage loans. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could continue to harm the Corporation’s ability to sell loans, the prices the Corporation receives for loans, the values of mortgage loans held-for-sale or residual interests in securitizations, which could harm the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any material decline in real estate values would weaken the collateral loan-to-value ratios and increase the possibility of loss if a borrower defaults. In such event, the Corporation will be subject to the risk of loss on such real asset arising from borrower defaults to the extent not covered by third-party credit enhancement. The Corporation’s business concentration in Puerto Rico imposes risks. The Corporation conducts its operations in a geographically concentrated area, as its main market is Puerto Rico. This imposes risks from lack of diversification in the geographical portfolio. The Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on the economic conditions of Puerto Rico, where adverse political or economic developments, natural disasters, and other events could affect among others, the volume of loan originations, increase the level of non-performing assets, increase the rate of foreclosure losses on loans, and reduce the value of the Corporation’s loans and loan servicing portfolio. The Corporation’s credit quality may be adversely affected by Puerto Rico’s current economic condition. Beginning in March 2006 and continuing to today’s date, a number of key economic indicators have showed that the economy of Puerto Rico has been in recession during that period of time. Construction remained weak during 2009, as the Commonwealth’s fiscal situation and decreasing public investment in construction projects affected the sector. During the period from January to December 2009, cement sales, an indicator of construction activity, declined by 29.6% as compared to 2008. As of October 2009, exports decreased by 6.8%, while imports decreased by 8.9%, a negative trade, which continues since the first negative trade balance of the last decade was registered in November 2006. Tourism activity also declined during 2009. Total hotel registrations for January to October 2009 declined 0.8% as compared to the same period for 2008. During January to September 2009 new vehicle sales decreased by 23.7%. In 2009, unemployment in Puerto Rico reached 15.0%, up 3.5 points compared with 2008. On January 14, 2010 the Puerto Rico Planning Board announced the release of Puerto Rico’s macroeconomic data for fiscal year 2009, ended June 30, 2009, as well as projected figures for fiscal year ending on June 30, 2010. The fiscal year 2009 showed a reduction of real GNP of - -3.7%, while the projections for the fiscal year of 2010 point toward a positive growth of 0.7%. In general, the Puerto Rico economy continued its trend of decreasing growth, primarily due to weaker manufacturing, softer consumption and decreased government investment in construction. The above economic concerns and uncertainty in the private and public sectors may also have an adverse effect on the credit quality of the Corporation’s loan portfolios, as delinquency rates are expected to increase in the short-term, until the economy stabilizes. Also, a potential reduction in consumer spending may also impact growth in other interest and non-interest revenue sources of the Corporation. 39 Table of Contents Rating downgrades on the Government of Puerto Rico’s debt obligations may affect the Corporation’s credit exposure. Even though Puerto Rico’s economy is closely integrated to that of the U.S. mainland and its government and many of its instrumentalities are investment-grade rated borrowers in the U.S. capital markets, the current fiscal situation of the Government of Puerto Rico has led nationally recognized rating agencies to downgrade its debt obligations in the past. Between May 2006 and mid-2009, the Government’s bonds were downgraded as a result of factors such as the Government’s inability to implement meaningful steps to curb operating expenditures, improve managerial and budgetary controls, high debt levels, chronic deficits, and the government’s continued reliance on operating budget loans from the Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico. In October and December 2009 both S&P and Moody’s confirmed the Government’s bond rating at BBB- and Baa3 with stable outlook, respectively. At present, both rating agencies maintain the stable outlooks for the general obligation bonds. In May 2009, S&P and Moody’s upgraded the sales and use tax senior bonds from A+ to AA- and from A1 to Aa3, respectively due to a modification in its bond resolution. It is uncertain how the financial markets may react to any potential future ratings downgrade in Puerto Rico’s debt obligations. However, the fallout from the recent budgetary crisis and a possible ratings downgrade could adversely affect the value of Puerto Rico’s Government obligations. The failure of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Corporation. The Corporation’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. The Corporation has exposure to different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, investment companies and other institutional clients. In certain of these transactions the Corporation is required to post collateral to secure the obligations to the counterparties. In the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding involving one of such counterparties, the Corporation may experience delays in recovering the assets posted as collateral or may incur a loss to the extent that the counterparty was holding collateral in excess of the obligation to such counterparty. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, many of these transactions expose the Corporation to credit risk in the event of a default by our counterparty or client. In addition, the credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Corporation cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to the Corporation. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future as a result of the current crisis in the financial industry may impact our business, governance structure, financial condition or results of operations. Current economic conditions, particularly in the financial markets, have resulted in government regulatory agencies and political bodies placing increased focus and scrutiny on the financial services industry. The U.S. government has intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to what has been commonly referred to as the financial crisis, by temporarily enhancing the liquidity support available to financial institutions, establishing a commercial paper funding facility, temporarily guaranteeing money market funds and certain types of debt issuances and increasing insurance on bank deposits. These programs have subjected financial institutions, particularly those participating in the U.S. Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program (the “TARP”), to additional restrictions, oversight and costs. In addition, new proposals for legislation continue to be introduced in the U.S. Congress that could further substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry, impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within 40 Table of Contents the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices, including in the areas of compensation, interest rates, financial product offerings and disclosures, and have an effect on bankruptcy proceedings with respect to consumer residential real estate mortgages, among other things. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. The Corporation also faces increased regulation and regulatory scrutiny as a result of our participation in the TARP. In January 2009, the Corporation issued Series F Preferred Stock and warrants to purchase the Corporation’s Common Stock to the U.S. Treasury under the TARP. Pursuant to the terms of this issuance, the Corporation is prohibited from increasing the dividend rate on our Common Stock in an amount exceeding the last quarterly cash dividend paid per share, or the amount publicly announced (if lower), of Common Stock prior to October 14, 2008, which was $0.07 per share, without approval. Furthermore, as long as Series F Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including the Corporation’s Common Stock, are prohibited unless all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on Series F Preferred Stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. On January 21, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives approved legislation amending the TARP provisions of Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (“EESA”) to include quarterly reporting requirements with respect to lending activities, examinations by an institution’s primary federal regulator of the use of funds and compliance with program requirements, restrictions on acquisitions by depository institutions receiving TARP funds and authorization for the U.S. Treasury to have an observer at board meetings of recipient institutions, among other things. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”). The ARRA contains expansive new restrictions on executive compensation for financial institutions and other companies participating in the TARP. The ARRA amends the executive compensation and corporate governance provisions of EESA. In doing so, it continues all the same compensation and governance restrictions and adds substantially to restrictions in several areas. In addition, on June 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury issued regulations implementing the compensation requirements under the ARRA. The regulations became applicable to existing TARP recipients upon publication in the Federal Register on June 15, 2009. The aforementioned compensation requirements and restrictions may adversely affect our ability to retain or hire senior bank officers. The U.S. House of Representatives approved a regulatory reform package on December 11, 2009 (H.R. 4173). The U.S. Senate is also expected to consider financial reform legislation during 2010. H.R. 4173 and a “Discussion Draft” of legislation that may be introduced in the U.S. Senate contain provisions, which would, among other things, establish a Consumer Financial Protection Agency, establish a systemic risk regulator, consolidate federal bank regulators and give shareholders an advisory vote on executive compensation. Separate legislative proposals call for partial repeal of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (the “GLB Act”), which is discussed below. The Obama administration is also requesting Congressional action to limit the growth of the largest U.S. financial firms and to bar banks and bank-related companies from engaging in proprietary trading and from owning, investing in or sponsoring hedge funds or private equity funds. A separate legislative proposal would impose a new fee or tax on U.S. financial institutions as part of the 2010 budget plans in an effort to reduce the anticipated budget deficit and to recoup losses anticipated from the TARP. Such an assessment is estimated to be 15-basis points, levied against bank assets minus Tier 1 capital and domestic deposits. It appears that this fee or tax would be assessed only against the 50 or so largest financial institutions in the U.S., which are those with more than $50 billion in assets, and therefore would not directly affect First BanCorp. However, the large banks that are affected by the tax may choose to seek additional deposit funding in the marketplace, driving up the cost of deposits for all banks. The administration has also considered a transaction tax on trades of stock in financial institutions and a tax on executive bonuses. The U.S. Congress has also recently adopted additional consumer protection laws such as the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009, and the Federal Reserve has adopted numerous new regulations addressing banks’ credit card, overdraft and mortgage lending practices. Additional consumer protection legislation and regulatory activity is anticipated in the near future. Internationally, both the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”) and the Financial Stability Board (established in April 2009 by the Group of Twenty Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors to take action to strengthen regulation and supervision of the financial system with greater international consistency, 41 Table of Contents cooperation and transparency) have committed to raise capital standards and liquidity buffers within the banking system. Such proposals and legislation, if finally adopted, would change banking laws and our operating environment and that of our subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways. The Corporation cannot determine whether such proposals and legislation will be adopted, or the ultimate effect that such proposals and legislation, if enacted, or regulations issued to implement the same, would have upon its financial condition or results of operations. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, the earnings and growth of First BanCorp are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. Government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. On January 6, 2010, the member agencies of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (the “FFIEC”), which includes the Federal Reserve, issued an interest rate risk advisory reminding banks to maintain sound practices for managing interest rate risk, particularly in the current environment of historically low short-term interest rates. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be predicted. The Corporation faces extensive and changing government regulation, which may increase our costs of and expose us to risks related to compliance. Most of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by multiple regulatory bodies. These regulations may affect the manner and terms of delivery of our services. If we do not comply with governmental regulations, we may be subject to fines, penalties, lawsuits or material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which may adversely affect our business operations. Changes in these regulations can significantly affect the services that we are asked to provide as well as our costs of compliance with such regulations. In addition, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to attract and retain customers. In recent years, regulatory oversight and enforcement have increased substantially, imposing additional costs and increasing the potential risks associated with our operations. If this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our consolidated results of operations. We are subject to regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, and if we fail to meet these guidelines our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, and other regulatory requirements, the Corporation and the Bank must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators regarding components, risk weightings and other factors. If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our business and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to maintain well-capitalized status under the regulatory framework, or are deemed to be not well-managed under regulatory exam procedures, or if we experience certain regulatory violations, our status as a financial holding company and our related eligibility for a streamlined review process for acquisition proposals, and our ability to offer certain financial products will be compromised. 42 Table of Contents The imposition of additional property tax payments in Puerto Rico may further deteriorate our commercial, consumer and mortgage loan portfolios. On March 9, 2009, the Governor of Puerto Rico signed into law the Special Act Declaring a State of Fiscal Emergency and Establishing an Integral Plan of Fiscal Stabilization to Save Puerto Rico’s Credit, Act No. 7 the “Act”). The Act imposes a series of temporary and permanent measures, including the imposition of a 0.591% special tax applicable to properties used for residential (excluding those exempt as detailed in the Act) and commercial purposes, and payable to the Puerto Rico Treasury Department. This temporary measure will be effective for tax years that commenced after June 30, 2009 and before July 1, 2012. The imposition of this special property tax could adversely affect the disposable income of borrowers from the commercial, consumer and mortgage loan portfolios and may cause an increase in our delinquency and foreclosure rates. RISKS RELATING TO AN INVESTMENT IN THE CORPORATION’S SECURITIES The market price of the Corporation’s common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations and volatility. The stock markets have recently experienced high levels of volatility. These market fluctuations have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the trading price of the Corporation’s common stock. In addition, the market price of the Corporation’s common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations and volatility because of factors specifically related to its businesses and may continue to fluctuate or further decline. Factors that could cause fluctuations, volatility or further decline in the market price of the Corporation’s common stock, many of which could be beyond its control, include the following: • changes or perceived changes in the condition, operations, results or prospects of the Corporation’s businesses and market assessments of these changes or perceived changes; • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by the Corporation or its competitors; • changes in governmental regulations or proposals, or new governmental regulations or proposals, affecting the Corporation, including those relating to the recent financial crisis and global economic downturn and those that may be specifically directed to the Corporation; • the continued decline, failure to stabilize or lack of improvement in general market and economic conditions in the Corporation’s principal markets; • the departure of key personnel; • changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; and • operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to the Corporation. Our suspension of dividends could adversely affect our stock price and result in the expansion of our board of directors. In March of 2009, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued a supervisory guidance letter intended to provide direction to bank holding companies (“BHCs”) on the declaration and payment of dividends, capital redemptions and capital repurchases by BHCs in the context of their capital planning process. The letter reiterates the long-standing Federal Reserve supervisory policies and guidance to the effect that BHCs should only pay dividends from current earnings. More specifically, the letter heightens expectations that BHCs will inform and consult with the Federal Reserve supervisory staff on the declaration and payment of dividends that exceed earnings for the period for which a dividend is being paid. In consideration of the financial results reported for the second quarter ended June 30, 2009, the Corporation decided, as a matter of prudent fiscal management and following the Federal Reserve guidance, to suspend payment of common stock dividends and dividends on all series of preferred stock. The Corporation cannot anticipate if and when the payment of dividends might be reinstated. 43 Table of Contents This suspension could adversely affect the Corporation’s stock price. Further, in general, if dividends on our preferred stock are not paid for six quarterly dividend periods or more, the authorized number of directors of the board will be increased by two and the preferred stockholders will have the right to elect two additional members of the Corporation’s board of directors until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been declared and paid in full. Dividends on the Corporation’s common stock have been suspended and a holder may not receive funds in connection with its investment in our common stock without selling its shares of common stock. Holders of common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as the Corporation’s board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. The Corporation announced the suspension of dividend payments on its common stock. In general, so long as any shares of preferred stock remain outstanding and until the Corporation satisfies various Federal regulatory considerations, the Corporation cannot declare, set apart or pay any dividends on shares of the Corporation’s common stock unless all accrued and unpaid dividends on its preferred stock for the twelve monthly dividend periods ending on the immediately preceding dividend payment date have been paid or are paid contemporaneously and the full monthly dividend on its preferred stock for the then current month has been or is contemporaneously declared and paid or declared and set apart for payment. Furthermore, prior to January 16, 2012, unless the Corporation has redeemed all of the shares of Series F Preferred Stock (or any successor security) or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of Series F Preferred Stock (or any successor security) to third parties, the consent of the U.S. Treasury will be required for the Corporation to, among other things, increase the dividend rate per share of Common Stock above $0.07 per share or to repurchase or redeem equity securities, including the Corporation’s common stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. This could adversely affect the market price of the Corporation’s common stock. Also, the Corporation is a bank holding company and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain Federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. Moreover, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have issued policy statements stating that bank holding companies and insured banks should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. In the current financial and economic environment, the Federal Reserve has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy and has discouraged dividend pay-out ratios that are at the 100% or higher level unless both asset quality and capital are very strong. In addition, the terms of the Corporation’s outstanding junior subordinated debt securities held by trusts that issue trust preferred securities prohibit the Corporation from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on its capital stock, including its common stock and preferred stock, or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if the Corporation has given notice of its election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. Offerings of debt, which would be senior to the common stock upon liquidation and/or to preferred equity securities, which may be senior to the common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of the common stock. The Corporation may attempt to increase its capital resources or, if its or the capital ratios of FirstBank fall below the required minimums, the Corporation or FirstBank could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of the Corporation’s available assets prior to the holders of the common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of existing stockholders or reduce the market price of the common stock, or both. The Corporation’s board of directors is authorized to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock from time to time without any action on the part of the stockholders. The Corporation’s board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon the Corporation’s dissolution, winding up and liquidation and other terms. If the Corporation issues preferred shares in the future that have a preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, or if the Corporation issues preferred shares with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the 44 Table of Contents common stock, the rights of holders of the common stock or the market price of the common stock could be adversely affected. There may be future dilution of the Corporation’s common stock. In January 2009, in connection with the U.S. Treasury’s TARP Capital Purchase Program, established as part of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the Corporation issued to the U.S. Treasury 400,000 shares of its Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series F, $1,000 liquidation preference value per share. In connection with this investment, the Corporation also issued to the U.S. Treasury a warrant to purchase 5,842,259 shares of the Corporation’s common stock (the “Warrant”) at an exercise price of $10.27 per share. The Warrant has a 10-year term and is exercisable at any time. The exercise price and the number of shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant are subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments. In addition, in connection with its sale of 9,250,450 shares of common stock to the Bank of Nova Scotia (“BNS”), the Corporation agreed to give BNS an anti-dilution right and a right of first refusal when the Corporation sells shares of common stock to third parties. The possible future issuance of equity securities through the exercise of the Warrant or to BNS as a result of its rights could affect the Corporation’s current stockholders in a number of ways, including by: • diluting the voting power of the current holders of common stock (the shares underlying the Warrant represent approximately 6% of the Corporation’s outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2009 and BNS owns 10% of the Corporation’s shares of common stock); • diluting the earnings per share and book value per share of the outstanding shares of common stock; and • making the payment of dividends on common stock more expensive. Also, recent increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses resulted in a reduction in the amount of the Corporation’s tangible common equity. Given the focus on tangible common equity by regulatory authorities and rating agencies, the Corporation may be required to raise additional capital through the issuance of additional common stock in future periods to increase that tangible common equity. However, no assurance can be given that the Corporation will be able to raise additional capital. An increase in the Corporation’s capital through an issuance of common stock could have a dilutive effect on the existing holders of our Common Stock and may adversely affect its market price. 45 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 