Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Company An investment in our securities involves various risks. An investor should carefully consider the following risk factors in conjunction with the other information in this report before trading our securities. The oil & gas industry is highly competitive. Competition for leasehold interests, subcontractors and qualified employees are keen and we are competing against companies that are larger, more experienced and better capitalized than we are. Our governing documents contain anti-takeover provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. Our Articles of Incorporation contain provisions designed to discourage attempts to acquire control of the Company by a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or removal of incumbent management without the approval of our Board of Directors. As a result, a transaction which otherwise might appear to be in your best interests as a stockholder could be delayed, deferred or prevented altogether, and you may be deprived of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares over prevailing market rates. The provisions contained in our Articles of Incorporation include: • the requirement of an 80% vote to make, adopt, alter, amend, change or repeal our Bylaws or certain key provisions of the Articles of Incorporation that embody, among other things, the anti-takeover provisions; and • the so-called business combination “control act” requirements involving the Company and a person that beneficially owns 10% or more of the outstanding common stock except under certain circumstances; and • the requirement of holders of at least 80% of the outstanding Common Stock to join together to request a special meeting of stockholders. As of March 28, 2009, a group of entities owned and controlled approximately 69% of the Company’s outstanding common stock. This group has the power to block any attempted change in control – See Item 12 – Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholders Matters. - 7 - Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 