RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this annual report in evaluating us and our business. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of future operations could be significantly harmed. In that case, the trading price of our shares and ADSs could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. This annual report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this annual report. You should also refer to the other information in this annual report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Our Quarterly Results May Fluctuate Significantly and Be Unpredictable – This Could Adversely Affect the Market Price of Our Shares We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations. Our quarterly results may fluctuate because of a variety of factors. Such factors include: · the timing of entering into agreements with licensees; · the financial terms and delivery schedules of our agreements with licensees; · the demand for products that incorporate our technology; · the mixture of license fees, royalties, revenues from the sale of development systems and fees from services; · the introduction of new technology by us, our licensees or our competition; · the timing of orders from and shipments to systems companies of ARM-based microprocessors from our semiconductor partners; · sudden technological or other changes in the microprocessor industry; and · new litigation or developments in current litigation. In future periods, our operating results may not meet the expectations of public market analysts or investors. In such an event the market price of our shares could be materially adversely affected. A more detailed description of how we earn revenues from license fees and royalties is set forth in the sections entitled “Item 18. Financial Statements—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 1b. Summary of significant accounting policies—Revenue recognition” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results— Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” We Are Dependent on Both Our Semiconductor Partners and Major Physical IP Licensees We rely on our semiconductor partners to manufacture and market microprocessors based on our architecture in order to receive royalties in the future. We also depend on them to add value to our licensed architecture by providing complete ARM-based microprocessor solutions to meet the specific application needs of systems companies. However, the semiconductor partners are not contractually obliged to manufacture, distribute or sell microprocessors based on our technology or to market our microprocessor architecture on an exclusive basis. Some of our existing semiconductor partners design, develop and/or manufacture and market microprocessors based on competing architectures, including their own, and others may do so in the future. We also rely on our major physical IP licensees to manufacture and market physical IP based on our libraries. We anticipate that our revenue will continue to depend on these major customers for the foreseeable future, although the companies considered to be major customers and the percentage of revenue represented by each major customer may vary from period to period depending on the addition of new contracts, the timing of work performed by us and the number of designs utilizing our products. None of our major physical IP licensees are contractually obliged to license future generations of physical IP components or additional physical IP components from us, and we cannot be certain that any customer will license physical IP components from us in the future. Our revenue from these customers may be comprised of license fees and royalties. In addition, we cannot be certain that any of the 4 Table of Contents integrated circuit manufacturers will produce products incorporating our physical IP components or that, if production occurs, they will generate significant royalty revenue for us. If one or more of our semiconductor partners or major physical IP licensees stops licensing our microprocessors or physical IP components, reduces its orders, fails to pay license or royalty fees due or does not produce products containing our microprocessors or physical IP components, our operating results could be materially and negatively affected. We cannot assure you that our semiconductor partners or our major physical IP licensees will dedicate the resources necessary to promote and further develop products based on our architecture and physical IP libraries respectively, that they will manufacture products based on our microprocessors or physical IP libraries in quantities sufficient to meet demand, that we will be successful in maintaining our relationships with our semiconductor partners and major physical IP licensees or that we will be able to develop relationships with new semiconductor partners or major physical IP licensees. Although we believe that our strategy of selecting multiple semiconductor partners and major physical IP licensees will expand the market for our architecture and physical IP libraries respectively and lead to more rapid acceptance of our architecture and physical IP libraries by assuring multiple reliable sources of microprocessors and physical IP libraries at competitive prices, such a strategy may also result in distribution channel conflicts. This could create disincentives to market our architecture aggressively and make it more difficult to retain our existing semiconductor partners and major physical IP licensees and to attract new partners and licensees. Accurate prediction of the timing of inception of new licenses is difficult because the development of a business relationship with a potential licensee may frequently span a year or more. The fiscal period in which a new license agreement will be entered into, if at all, is difficult to predict, as are the financial terms of any such agreement. Engineering services are dependent upon the varying level of assistance desired by licensees and, therefore, the timing of revenue from these services is also difficult to predict. With increasing complexity in each successive generation of integrated circuit products, we face the risk that the rate of adoption of smaller process geometries for integrated circuit manufacturing may slow or cease. We also face the risk that licensing revenue may suffer if current or former customers collaborate with each other regarding design standards for particular generations of integrated circuit products. The royalties we receive on ARM-based microprocessors are based on the volumes and prices of microprocessors manufactured and sold by our semiconductor partners and the royalties we receive on physical IP libraries are based on volumes and prices of wafers, manufactured and sold by our major physical IP licensees. Our royalties are therefore influenced by many of the risks faced by the semiconductor market in general. These risks include reductions in demand for SoCs based on our microprocessors and physical IP libraries and reduced average selling prices. The semiconductor market is intensely competitive. It is also generally characterized by declining average selling prices over the life of a generation of microprocessors and physical IP libraries. The effect of these price decreases is compounded by the fact that royalty rates decrease as a function of volume. We cannot assure you that delays in licensing, poor demand for services, decreases in prices or in our royalty rates will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We Depend Largely on a Small Number of Customers and Products – This May Adversely Affect Our Revenues Our revenues depend largely on a small number of licensees and products. As regards revenues from licensees, our revenues in a particular period are generally concentrated in a small number of licensees. If we fail to achieve the performance required under a single license contract or if a single customer fails to make its milestone payments, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, any failure to develop successor products which offer significant competitive advantages to these customers in a timely manner or any decrease in demand for ARM microprocessors or for ARM’s range of physical IP libraries could materially adversely affect us. Our Success Depends Substantially on Systems Companies Our success depends substantially on the acceptance of our technology by systems companies, particularly those which develop and market high-volume electronic products in the wireless, consumer electronics and networking markets where demand may be highly cyclical. The reason for this dependence is that sales of ARM- 5 Table of Contents based microprocessors by our semiconductor partners to systems companies directly affect the amount of royalties we receive. We are subject to many risks beyond our control that may influence the success or failure of a particular systems company. These risks include: · competition faced by the systems company in its particular industry; · the engineering and marketing capabilities of the systems company; · market acceptance of the systems company’s products; · technical challenges unrelated to our technology faced by the systems company in developing its products; and · the financial and other resources of the systems company. It can take a long time to persuade systems companies to accept our technology and, even if accepted, we cannot assure you that our technology will be used in a product that is ultimately brought to market. Furthermore, even if our technology is used in a product brought to market, we cannot assure you that such product will be commercially accepted or result in significant royalties to us. Demand for our intellectual property may also be affected by consolidation in the integrated circuit and related industries, which may reduce the aggregate level of purchases of our intellectual property components and services by the combined companies. The revenue we generate from licensing activities depends in large part on the rate at which systems companies adopt new product generations, which, in turn, is affected by the level of demand for their integrated circuits and other products. Rapid Technological Changes in Our Industry Are Difficult to Predict – Our Business May Be Adversely Affected if We Cannot Develop New Products on a Timely Basis The market for our architecture is characterized by rapidly changing technology and end user needs. Our business, reputation and relationships with our partners could be adversely affected if we cannot develop technological improvements or adapt our architecture and physical IP libraries to technological changes on a timely basis. Whether we will be able to compete in the future will substantially depend on our ability to advance our technology to meet these changing market and user needs and to anticipate successfully or respond to technological changes in hardware, software and architecture standards on a cost-effective and timely basis. We will have to make significant expenditures to develop our products. The long lead time from the initial design of our technology until it is incorporated into new end user applications will place significant strain on our research and development resources. Certain of our products have suffered delays in the past. We cannot assure you that the design of future products will be completed as scheduled, that we will be successful in developing and licensing new products, that we will not experience difficulties that delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of new products or that any new products that we may introduce will achieve market acceptance. Our Architecture, Physical IP Libraries and Development Systems Tools May Not Continue to Be Accepted by the Market There are competing microprocessor architectures in the market. We cannot assure you that the market will continue to accept our architecture. Market acceptance of our architecture by semiconductor and systems companies for use in a variety of embedded applications is critical for our success. While our microprocessor architecture has already been licensed by many semiconductor and systems companies for use in a variety of high-volume applications in the wireless, consumer electronics and networking markets, other microprocessor architectures have a large installed base of embedded applications and are supported by a broad base of related software and development tools. A more detailed description of these competing architectures is set forth in the section entitled “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Competition” below. It may be difficult for our architecture to succeed against incumbent architectures as systems companies that have used other microprocessor architectures would need to invest in additional training and development tools and convert software for existing embedded applications in order to change to a new architecture. Moreover, some competing microprocessor 6 Table of Contents architectures have been developed by firms, including some of our semiconductor partners, that have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Our physical IP library products also face significant competition from the internal design groups of integrated circuit manufacturers that have expanded their manufacturing capabilities and portfolio of intellectual property components to participate in the system-on-a-chip market. Our physical IP library products also face competition from integrated circuit designers that have expanded their internal design capabilities and portfolio of intellectual property components to meet their internal design needs. Integrated circuit manufacturers and designers that license our physical IP components have historically had their own internal physical IP component design groups. These design groups continue to compete with ARM for access to the integrated circuit manufacturers’ or designers’ physical IP component requisitions and, in some cases, compete with ARM to supply physical IP components to third parties. Physical IP components developed by internal design groups of integrated circuit manufacturers are designed to utilize the qualities of their own manufacturing process, and may therefore benefit from capacity, informational, cost and technical advantages. Foundry partners may be reluctant to rely on a single vendor for a broad array of IP components and RISC microprocessors and could select another vendor to provide them with products formerly supplied by us. Alternatively, Physical IP Foundry partners could also name another vendor as their vendor of choice to their customers. Our development systems tools business faces significant competitors from both the open source community and third-party tools and software suppliers. In the event that market share is lost to such competitors, there could be a material adverse effect on our revenues. The High Cost of Building Advanced Semiconductor Manufacturing Facilities May Limit the Number of Foundries as Potential Customers for our Physical IP Libraries The cost of developing leading-edge manufacturing facilities and processes needed for building advanced chips is rising. Some of ARM’s current foundry customers may delay or cancel plans for developing new manufacturing processes. Without a new process, ARM will not have an opportunity to develop and sell Physical IP libraries for that process. This would reduce the licensing opportunity for ARM. In addition, the bargaining power of the remaining foundries with advanced manufacturing facilities would be increased. This could make it harder for ARM to win profitable licensing deals with these foundries, further reducing both licensing and royalty revenue. Competition – We May Not Be Able to Compete Successfully in the Future The markets for our products are intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. We cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources, technical expertise or marketing or support capabilities to compete successfully in the future. Competition is based on a variety of factors including price, performance, features, product quality, software availability, marketing and distribution capability, customer support, name recognition and financial strength. Further, given our reliance on our semiconductor partners, our competitive position is dependent on their competitive position. In addition, our semiconductor partners do not license our architecture exclusively, and several of them also design, develop, manufacture and market microprocessors based on their own architectures or on other non -ARM architectures. A more detailed description of the competition we face from new technologies or products is set forth in the section entitled “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Competition.” Our Architecture and Physical IP Libraries May Face Strong Competition from Well Resourced Competitors Some semiconductor companies have developed their own proprietary architecture for specific markets or applications. These companies may reuse their proprietary architecture to penetrate markets where ARM is currently the architecture of choice, or where ARM may be used in the future, making it harder for ARM to penetrate in the future. For example, Intel Corporation has developed the X86 architecture for use in PCs and laptops. With mobile phones becoming smarter, Intel is trying to capture the high-end smartphone market with a family of chips based on the X86 architecture. This could limit ARM’s market share in mobile phones and could prevent any further growth into mobile computing devices. Other semiconductor companies have proprietary architectures in other applications including, but not limited to, automotive, networking, digital television, electronic storage and mobile communications. These companies may have much larger engineering, marketing and sales resources than ARM, 7 Table of Contents and if successful in displacing or impeding ARM, could reduce licensing opportunities and royalties, negatively affecting operating results. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (“TSMC”), one of the largest integrated circuit manufacturing customers of ARM, has historically produced intellectual property components for use by third parties in designs to be manufactured at TSMC’s foundry. These components are designed to serve the same purpose as components produced by ARM. The intellectual property components developed by TSMC have competed and are expected to continue to compete with ARM’s products. We believe that TSMC is more aggressively developing and distributing these products to encourage its customers to use TSMC-developed IP rather than products containing ARM IP. TSMC has substantially greater financial, manufacturing and other resources, name recognition and market presence than the ARM business, and the internal design group at TSMC has greater access to technical information about TSMC’s manufacturing processes. Distribution partners selected by TSMC include Cadence Design Systems, Inc. (“Cadence”), Magma Design Automation, Inc., Synopsys, Inc. (“Synopsys”) and Virage Logic Corporation. Some of TSMC’s distribution partners, such as Cadence, may have greater resources, name recognition and distribution networks than we do. If TSMC is successful in its strategy, then we would lose TSMC license revenue and TSMC royalties, negatively affecting operating results. The Availability of Development Tools, Systems Software, EDA Tools and Operating Systems Is Crucial to the Market Acceptance of Our Products We believe that it is crucial for the market acceptance of our products that development tools, systems software, EDA software and operating systems compatible with our architecture be available. We currently work with systems software, EDA software and tools and development partners to offer development tools, systems software, EDA software and operating systems for our architecture. However, we cannot assure you that: · we will be able to attract additional tools and development, systems software and EDA tool partners; · our existing partners will continue to offer development tools, systems software, EDA tools and operating systems compatible with our architecture; or · the available development tools, systems software, EDA tools and operating systems will be sufficient to support customers’ needs. We May Incur Unanticipated Costs Because of Products That Could Have Technical Difficulties or Undetected Design Errors Our products or technology could have a substantial technical difficulty or an undetected design error. This could result in unanticipated costs, including product liability litigation. The discovery of any design defect or any ensuing litigation could damage our results and reputation and our relationships with partners could be adversely affected. We May Not Fully Realize the Anticipated Benefits (including Synergy Benefits) of the Artisan (now PIPD) Acquisition The acquisition of Artisan involved the integration of two companies that previously operated independently. There can be no assurance, however, regarding when or the extent to which the combined company will be able to realize the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition, including increased revenues, cost savings or other benefits. There May Be Risks Associated with any Strategic Investments or Acquisitions We May Make We envisage making strategic investments or acquisitions where there is an opportunity to further the establishment of the ARM architecture and physical IP libraries. Exploring and implementing any investments or acquisitions may place strain upon our ability to manage our future growth and may divert management attention from our core design and licensing business. There are also other risks associated with this strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to make investments or acquire businesses on satisfactory terms or that any business acquired by us or in which we invest will be integrated successfully into our operations or be able to operate profitably. 8 Table of Contents Our International Operations Expose Us to Risks We currently have operations in various jurisdictions around the world and may in the future expand our operations either within these jurisdictions or to new jurisdictions. Some risks associated with these international operations are exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, political, economic and financial conditions and unexpected changes in regulatory environments. Another risk we face is that, particularly with respect to intellectual property, we are exposed to different legal jurisdictions. In addition, we could face potentially adverse tax consequences and difficulties in staffing and managing operations. With respect to foreign exchange, a large proportion of our revenues are in US dollars, while our costs reflect the geographic spread of our operations with in excess of 50% of our costs being in pounds sterling. This mismatch will result in gains or losses with respect to movements in foreign exchange rates and may be material. To mitigate this effect, we engage in currency hedging transactions. A more detailed description of these hedging transactions is set forth in the section entitled “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects— Operating Results—Foreign Currency Fluctuations.” Although we have not to date experienced any material adverse effects with respect to our foreign operations arising from such factors, we cannot assure you that such problems will not arise in the future. Finally, managing operations in multiple jurisdictions will place further strain on our ability to manage overall growth. Our Business Will Be Adversely Affected if We Cannot Manage the Significant Changes in the Number of Our Employees and the Size of Our Operations Either through acquisition or organic growth, from time to time we may significantly increase the number of our employees and the size of our operations. These changes in head count may place a significant strain on our management and other resources. We will face challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs in different jurisdictions. If we are unable to manage growth in our head count, expenses, technological integration and the scope of operations effectively, the cost and quality of our products may suffer and we may be unable to attract and retain key personnel and develop and market new products. Further, the inability to successfully manage the substantially larger and geographically more diverse organization could have a material adverse effect on the Company and, as a result, on the market prices of our ADSs and our ordinary shares. We May Not Continue to Operate and Develop Systems Which Comply Fully with the Requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Attestation under section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as at December 31, 2009 has been successfully completed. Full details appear in “Item 15. Controls and Procedures.” There can be no guarantee, however, that in the future the detailed testing of internal controls required as part of the attestation process will not identify significant control deficiencies or material weaknesses that impact on our assessment or the auditors’ opinion on internal controls over financial reporting and/or require disclosure, which could result in damage to our reputation, diversion of management’s attention and resources and a material adverse effect on the market prices of our ADSs and our ordinary shares. We May Not Operate Disaster Recovery Plans Which Adequately Mitigate the Effects of an Event Over Which We Do Not Have Direct Control Our business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications software and hardware systems and other information technology. If such systems were to fail for any reason or if we were to experience any unscheduled downtimes, even for only a short period, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Our systems could be damaged or interrupted by earthquake, fire, flood, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins or similar events. We have formal disaster recovery plans in place. However, these plans may not be entirely successful in preventing delays or other complications that could arise from information systems failure, and, if they are not successful, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur, negatively affecting operating results. 9 Table of Contents We Are Dependent on Our Senior Management Personnel and on Hiring and Retaining Both Qualified Engineers and Experienced Sales and Marketing Personnel If we lose the services of any of our senior management personnel or a significant number of our engineers or sales and marketing personnel, it could be disruptive to our development efforts or business relationships and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As our future success depends on whether we can continue to enhance and introduce new generations of our technology, we are particularly dependent upon our ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified engineers with the requisite educational background and industry experience. Competition for qualified engineers, particularly those with significant industry experience, is intense. We are also dependent upon our senior management personnel. In addition, whether we can successfully expand geographically will depend on our ability to attract and retain sales and marketing personnel. In certain geographic regions, there is fierce competition for such personnel. Our Business and Future Operating Results May Be Adversely Affected by General Economic Conditions and Other Events Outside of Our Control We are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in global economic conditions. Due to economic uncertainties in many of our key markets, many industries may delay or reduce technology purchases and investments. The impact of this on us is difficult to predict, but if businesses defer licensing our technology, require fewer services or development tools, or if consumers defer purchases of new products which incorporate our technology, our revenue could decline. A decline in revenue would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Our business and operating results will also be vulnerable to interruption by other events outside of our control, such as earthquakes, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, political instability, pandemics, military conflict and uncertainties arising out of terrorist attacks, including a global economic slowdown, the economic consequences of additional military action or additional terrorist activities and associated political instability, and the effect of heightened security concerns on domestic and international travel and commerce. Claims May Be Made for Which We Do Not Have Adequate Insurance Since 2001, the insurance industry has faced unprecedented and escalating global events compounded by international economic uncertainty. As a result of these and other pressures, many insurers have withdrawn from certain market sectors. We have continued with our philosophy of only placing coverage with secure underwriters with programs arranged individually to suit our needs. We currently have global insurance policies including coverage for the following significant risks: business interruption, public and products liability, directors and officers liability. We do not insure against claims concerning patent litigation, because we are of the view that any limited coverage that could be obtained is prohibitively expensive. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the occurrence of a catastrophic event, to the extent that any resulting loss or claim is not covered under the terms of our then existing insurance policies. We May Be Unable to Protect and Enforce Our Proprietary Rights Our ability to compete may be affected by whether we can protect and enforce our proprietary rights. We take great care to protect our technology and innovations with patents, agreements with licensees, employees and consultants and other security measures. We also rely on copyright, trademarks and trade secret laws to protect our technology and innovations. However, despite our efforts, we cannot assure you that others will not gain access to our trade secrets, or that we can meaningfully protect our technology and innovations. In addition, effective trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. Although we intend to protect our technology and innovations vigorously, there can be no assurance that such measures will be successful. A more detailed description of how we protect our intellectual property is set forth in the section entitled “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Patent and Intellectual Property Protection.” 10 Table of Contents We May Have to Defend Ourselves Against Third Parties Who Claim That We Have Infringed Their Proprietary Rights We take great care to establish and maintain the proprietary integrity of our products. We focus on designing and implementing our products in a “cleanroom” fashion, without the use of intellectual property belonging to other third parties, except under strictly maintained procedures and express license rights. In the event we discover that a third party has intellectual property rights covering a product that we are interested in developing, we will take steps to either purchase a license to use the technology or work around the technology by developing our own solution so as to avoid infringement of that third party’s intellectual property rights. Notwithstanding such efforts, third parties may yet make claims that we have infringed their proprietary rights. An Infringement Claim or a Significant Damage Award Would Adversely Impact Our Operating Results Substantial litigation and threats of litigation regarding intellectual property rights exist in the industries in which we operate. From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, may assert patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. We cannot be certain that we would ultimately prevail in any dispute or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. Any infringement claim brought against us, regardless of the duration, outcome or size of the damage award, could: · result in substantial cost to us; · divert management’s attention and resources; · be time-consuming to defend; · result in substantial damage awards; · cause product shipment delays; or · require us to seek to enter into royalty or other licensing agreements. Any infringement claim or other litigation against or by us could have a material negative affect on our business. In any potential dispute involving our intellectual property, our customers and strategic partners could also become the target of litigation. This could trigger our indemnification obligations in our license agreements, which could result in substantial expense to us. In addition to the time and expense required for us to supply support or indemnification to our customers and strategic partners, any litigation could severely disrupt or shut down the business of our customers and strategic partners, which in turn would hurt our relations with them and harm our operating results. From time to time, we may be subject to claims by our customers or customers of the companies we have acquired that our intellectual property components or products of acquired companies that have been incorporated into electronic products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Our Future Capital Needs May Require Us to Seek Debt Financing or Additional Equity Funding Which, if Not Available, Could Cause Our Business to Suffer From time to time, we may be required to raise additional funds for our future capital needs through public or private financing, strategic relationships or other arrangements. There can be no assurance that the funding, if needed, will be available on attractive terms, or at all. Furthermore, any additional financing arrangements may be dilutive to shareholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. Strategic arrangements, if necessary to raise additional funds, may require us to relinquish our rights to certain of our technologies or products. Our failure to raise capital when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business. 11 Table of Contents 