Item 1A. Risk Factors The economic environment in the U.S. and globally could affect our future operating results. Beginning in late 2007 and throughout 2008 and 2009, the economic environment had varying degrees of impact on our business, reflected primarily in longer sales cycles, decreased sales and higher customer disconnections that dampened our revenue growth. Although there are indications that a slow economic recovery has begun to occur and we have experienced a decline in customer disconnections (see—“Several customers account for a significant portion of our revenue, and some of our customers may disconnect their services due to price competition, customer consolidations, financial difficulties or other factors”) and increased demand for our services resulting in slightly higher revenue growth in 2010 compared to 2009, there is no assurance that this recent trend will continue. If the economic recovery slows or stalls, there is risk that customer disconnections may increase along with bad debts, and prices and new sales may decline or sales may be delayed due to decreased demand for our services, customer cash flow constraints, customer credit deteriorations and other factors. Our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if there were to be a material adverse change in any of these factors. Our revenue, margins and cash flow are subject to fluctuations in the ordinary course of business due to the timing of sales and installations, disputes and dispute resolutions, pricing declines upon contract renewals, expense and capital expenditures, and seasonality in sales and usage-based services. An extended economic recovery or a return to recession could amplify the effect of those normal fluctuations on our results. A slower economic recovery could also impact key vendors that supply critical equipment and software or other goods and services that we rely upon in the provision of our services. There is no assurance that we could replace key products or services with alternate providers on a timely and cost efficient basis if our key vendors experience a financial crisis. We may be unable to sustain our revenue growth and increase our cash flow despite the implementation of several initiatives designed to do so. We must grow our business and revenue in order to generate cash flow that, together with cash on hand and funds available under our credit facility, will be sufficient to fund our capital expenditures and our debt service requirements. We have pursued several growth initiatives, including: • Increasing network investments in existing markets to expand our network reach; • Launching new products and services, especially products and services that support customers’ data and IP needs; • Targeting customer care initiatives to improve customer retention; 18 Table of Contents • Enhancing our ability to compete for multi-location customers; • Increasing our network reach through acquisitions; • Increasing sales force productivity; and • Advancing our network and systems to create increased efficiencies, capabilities and customer control over their services. Our ability to manage and achieve the intended benefits of this expansion depends on many factors, including our ability to: • Attract new customers and sell new services to existing customers; • Acquire and install transmission facilities and related equipment at reasonable costs; • Employ new technologies; • Obtain required permits and rights-of-way; • Enhance our financial, operating, and information systems to achieve the benefits of increased scale; • Manage the cost and timing of our capital expenditure programs; • Remain competitive against much larger, better-funded incumbent carriers; and • Acquire facilities from other carriers at a reasonable price with acceptable service quality to serve customers that are not directly connected to our network. There is no assurance that our growth initiatives will continue to result in an improvement in our results of operations. Factors such as customer disconnections and pricing declines upon contract renewals could adversely affect our ability to sustain revenue growth unless we can sell and install growing volumes of services to outpace those impacts. Prior to 2009, we incurred net losses even during periods of increasing revenue. Although we had net income in 2009 and 2010, certain factors could cause losses to occur in future periods including, among others, economic conditions, industry consolidations, decreased demand, customers disconnecting services, competition, regulatory and contractual rate reductions, revenue disputes, significant increases in our special access costs due to adverse regulatory changes or otherwise, other cost increases, catastrophic losses, increases in federal or state tax expense or changes in accounting standards or the impact of other risk factors. Several customers account for a significant portion of our revenue, and some of our customers may disconnect their services due to price competition, customer consolidations, financial difficulties, or other factors. We have substantial business relationships with a few large customers, especially other carriers. Our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 20% of our total revenue in 2010. The highly competitive environment in the long haul carrier sector, including interexchange carriers, and changes in the local services market have challenged the financial condition and growth prospects of some of our carrier customers and could lead to reductions in our revenue in the future. Our service agreements with customers that have already satisfied their initial terms are subject to termination by the customer on short notice and do not require the customer to maintain the services at current levels. After expiration of their current agreements, customers may not choose to continue to purchase the same services or level of services. Increasing consolidation in the telecommunications industry has occurred in recent years, and if any of our customers are acquired we may lose a significant portion of their business. Our revenue churn, defined as the average lost recurring monthly billing from customers’ partial or complete service disconnections (excluding pricing declines upon contract renewals and lost usage revenue), was 1.0%, 1.3%, and 1.2% of total monthly revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We experience customer and service disconnections in the normal course of business primarily associated with price competition from 19 Table of Contents other providers, customer network optimization, customers moving facilities to other locations, cost cutting, business contractions, customer financial difficulties and industry consolidation. We believe that the economic downturn contributed to an increase in churn beginning in late 2007. While we experienced an improvement in churn in 2010, we do not know whether the favorable churn results are sustainable and cannot predict the total impact on revenue from future customer disconnections or the timing of such disconnections. Replacing this revenue with new revenue from other customers may be difficult and more costly. In addition, competitive pricing pressure on our services, as well as customers’ heightened cost cutting initiatives due to the economy, may challenge our ability to grow our revenue. Further, we expect revenue will continue to be impacted by pricing declines to current market levels for existing customers that renew services with expired terms. The market for our services is highly competitive, and many of our competitors have significant advantages that may adversely affect our ability to compete with them. We operate in an increasingly competitive environment, and some companies may have competitive advantages over us. Most ILECs offer substantially the same services that we offer, in some cases at higher prices and in some cases at lower prices. ILECs benefit from: • Their name recognition; • Greater financial and technical resources; • Larger networks and broader network coverage; • The ability to leverage a customers’ total expenditures with them by providing lower prices for bundled service offerings and subsidizing services that compete with ours; and • Regulatory decisions that decrease regulatory oversight of ILECs. Consolidations involving ILECs, CLECs and others may result in fewer, but much larger and more effective competitors. We also face competition from other CLECs and cable companies. While the cable companies are primarily competing for smaller business customers currently, they may be expanding their network coverage and product offerings to serve larger customers which could result in additional competition for the customers that we target. Price cutting or other aggressive attempts by other carriers to retain customers in the dampened economic environment may pressure our pricing or require us to reduce prices for existing services upon contract renewals, thereby reducing our revenue and margins. In some of the markets in which we operate, we may experience intense competition for particular customers, which could adversely affect our revenue and margins. If we do not adapt to rapid changes in the telecommunications industry and continue to offer services that satisfy customers’ needs, we could lose customers or market share. The telecommunications industry continues to experience rapid and significant changes in technologies and architectures to deliver new services to customers. We expect that new technologies will continue to enable advances in our customers’ IT environments that create new demand drivers. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to the rapidly changing needs and demands of our customers on a timely basis. Our failure to obtain and integrate new technologies and applications, and develop new service offerings to meet those customer needs or to keep pace with or exceed the service capabilities of our competitors could impact the breadth of our service portfolio, resulting in less competitive and compelling offerings to customers that could impair our ability to attract and retain customers. In addition to investing in new technologies, we must replace some of the equipment that supports our traditional services as that equipment ages, even though the revenue base from those services is not growing. If we do not properly manage this process, including the migration of customers to our newer technologies, we may lose customers and market share, and our margins and returns could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents We use the facilities of other carriers to reach some of our customer locations, and our ability to compete for those customers could be adversely affected by the cost of those facilities or by such carriers’ service issues. Although we provide a substantial portion of our services entirely on our own network facilities, we must use the facilities of other carriers to connect our local markets, serve customer locations within our markets not served by our network and serve customer locations in U.S. markets outside of our service areas or outside of the U.S. Many of these carriers are also our competitors and if they cause delays in provisioning services, provide poor service quality or the cost of those facilities is unreasonable, our revenue and margins could be adversely affected. We have experienced service issues with some of these carriers from time to time. We may be adversely affected by changes in the regulation of special access services. We purchase special access circuits and other services from ILECs to expand the reach of our network. We also provide special access services to our customers over our fiber facilities in competition with the ILECs. If ILEC special access prices increase, our costs may increase but we may experience less pricing pressure on the special access services that we sell. We may not be able to pass those costs on to customers that have term contracts or due to competitive pressures. If ILEC price reductions were to occur, we would likely experience downward pressure on the prices we charge our customers for special access services. A change in the regulations governing special access services could also reduce the likelihood that ILECs will sell us special access on reasonable terms and conditions. The FCC is currently reviewing its regulation of special access in a pending proceeding opened in 2005. We have advocated that the FCC modify its special access pricing flexibility rules to return these services to price-cap regulation to protect against unreasonable price increases. We do not know when or if the FCC will act on interstate special access regulation and how that action would impact us. The FCC has also granted petitions for forbearance from regulation of certain special access services, including Ethernet services offered by ILECs as special access with the result that prices for the Ethernet and OC-n high capacity data services of the petitioning carriers are no longer regulated. We continue to pursue commercial arrangements with the ILECs for these services on acceptable terms and conditions, but there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain reasonable pricing, terms and conditions for these services that will allow us to competitively price our services that utilize unregulated ILEC services without some regulation of ILEC access services. We expect that the ILECs will continue to advocate deregulation of all forms of special access services, and we cannot predict the outcome of the FCC’s proceedings in this regard. As a result, we cannot assure that we will continue to be able to obtain special access services at reasonable rates or on a timely basis or that the service quality we receive will be acceptable. If we experience difficulties in obtaining high-quality, reliable, and reasonably priced service from the ILECs, and are unable to obtain the same services from other carriers, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or our margins may be adversely affected. Our substantial existing debt and debt service requirements could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations under our debt. As of December 31, 2010, our total long term debt and capital lease obligations were approximately $1.3 billion. Our level of debt may affect our operations and our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness. Subject to certain covenants in our credit agreement and the indentures for our outstanding senior notes, we may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness could, for example: • Limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other corporate purposes; • Make us more vulnerable to the current and future economic downturns or other adverse developments than less leveraged competitors; and • Decrease our ability to withstand competitive pressures. 21 Table of Contents Our revolving credit facility, Term Loan B and the indenture relating to our senior notes contain restrictive covenants that may limit our flexibility, and breach of those covenants may cause us to be in default under those agreements. The credit agreement for our revolving credit facility (“Revolver”) and Term Loan B (“Term Loan”) and the indenture relating to our senior notes limit, and in some circumstances prohibit, our ability to, among other things: • Incur additional debt; • Pay dividends; • Make capital expenditures, investments or other restricted payments; • Guarantee debts; • Create liens; • Sell assets; • Repurchase our common stock; and • Engage in mergers and acquisitions. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand future economic downturns, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. In addition, if we do not comply with these restrictions and financial covenants in our credit agreement that require us to maintain certain minimum financial ratios if we draw on our Revolver, the indebtedness outstanding under our credit agreement, and by reason of cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions, our senior notes and any other outstanding indebtedness we may then have, could become immediately due and payable. If we are unable to repay those amounts, our lenders or bondholders could initiate a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding or the secured lenders could foreclose on the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If our lenders or bondholders were to accelerate the repayment of outstanding indebtedness, we may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. We will require substantial capital to expand our operations and may not be able to obtain additional financing. The development and expansion of our network requires substantial capital investment. If this capital is not available when needed, our business could be adversely affected. Our 2010 capital expenditures were $321.8 million and our estimate of our 2011 capital expenditures is $310 million to $330 million. We also expect to have substantial capital expenditures thereafter. Based on current assumptions, we expect to generate sufficient cash from operations along with available cash on hand, including cash equivalents, investments and borrowing capacity under our Revolver to provide sufficient funds to meet our expected capital expenditure and liquidity needs to operate our business and service our debt for the foreseeable future. However, we may be required to seek financing in addition to the unused $80 million Revolver if: • Our business plans and cost estimates are inaccurate; • We are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, fund our capital expenditures and finance our business operations; • We experience a significant reduction in demand for our products or an acceleration of customer disconnections; • We decide to significantly accelerate the expansion of our business and existing network; or • We wish to consummate acquisitions or joint ventures or other strategic transactions that require incremental capital. 22 Table of Contents Disruptions in the commercial credit market caused a tightening of credit markets in 2008 worldwide, making it more difficult and costly to obtain new lines of credit and access the equity markets. Although the debt and equity markets began to improve in 2009 and 2010 and we completed two refinancings in 2010, it is difficult to predict whether this trend will continue and whether we will be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, on terms acceptable to us or at all. Depending upon market conditions, any additional financing we might seek could be with rates and terms significantly less favorable than those contained in our current Revolver, Term Loan or other outstanding debt instruments. Other factors, such as a rating downgrade could further impact our potential access to financing sources. The failure to raise sufficient funds if needed on reasonable terms may require us to modify or significantly curtail our business plan. This could have a material adverse impact on our growth, ability to compete and ability to service our debt. In addition, the lenders under our Revolver could refuse to lend funds if we are not in compliance with our financial covenants, such as leverage and interest coverage ratios that are primarily derived from the financial measure that we define as M-EBITDA (see note 6 to Item 6. “Selected Financial Data”), debt levels and interest expense. A lack of revenue growth, revenue losses, pricing declines or rising costs could negatively impact our M-EBITDA margins and cause our failure to meet the minimum required ratios. Even if we meet the conditions for borrowing under the Revolver, we may be unable to draw upon the entire commitment if any of our lenders are unable to perform their obligations to advance funds due to their own financial difficulties. We may be adversely impacted by deterioration in the financial condition of financial institutions or mutual funds that hold our investments. As of December 31, 2010, our cash, cash equivalents and investments are held in financial institutions, U.S. Treasury money market mutual funds, debt securities issued by U.S. government agencies and corporate debt securities, some of which are guaranteed by the federal government’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. From time to time, we also invest in U.S. Treasury securities. We are exposed to risks resulting from deterioration in the financial condition or failure of financial institutions holding our cash deposits, decisions of our investment advisors and the investment managers of the money market funds and defaults in securities underlying the funds and investments, which could adversely impact our ability to access these cash balances. We actively monitor the depository institutions and the performance and quality of our investments and the mutual funds that hold our cash and cash equivalents and adjust the cash balances in our accounts as appropriate. We prioritize safety over investment return in choosing the investment vehicles for cash and cash equivalents and investments and have diversified these investments to the extent practical to minimize our exposure to any one investment vehicle or financial institution. This strategy generally results in lower interest income from investments included in cash and cash equivalents and investments. We may change the nature of our cash, cash equivalent and short-term investments as market conditions change. Balances in our accounts with financial institutions in the U.S. exceed the FDIC insurance limit when it is impractical to spread these amounts over multiple institutions. We cannot assure that access to our cash, cash equivalents and investments will not be impacted by additional and yet unforeseeable adverse conditions in the financial markets. In 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $7.8 million on commercial paper investments with exposure to sub-prime mortgages that were past their maturity dates. We may complete a significant business combination or other transaction that could increase our shares outstanding, and may result in a change in control, and increase our debt. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other arrangements that would extend our geographic markets, expand our services, enlarge the capacity of our network or expand the types of services provided through our network. If we enter into a definitive agreement for any acquisition, joint venture or other arrangement, we may require additional financing that could result in an increase in our debt, result in a change of control, increase the number of outstanding shares or all of these effects. A substantial transaction may 23 Table of Contents require the consent of our lenders and a change of control with a ratings decline could trigger prepayment obligations under our debt agreements. There can be no assurance that we will enter into any transaction or, if we do, on what terms. In addition, the success of any significant acquisition or business combination is dependent, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate the acquired business into ours, which also carries substantial risks. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future tax payments could be negatively impacted if there is an “ownership change” as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and our Section 382 stockholder rights plan, which is intended to help preserve our NOLs, may not be effective. We have substantial NOLs for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, under the Internal Revenue Code, we may “carry forward” these NOLs in certain circumstances to offset any current and future taxable income and thus reduce our federal income tax liability, subject to certain requirements and restrictions. If we experience an “ownership change,” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and related Treasury regulations at a time when our market capitalization is below a certain level, our ability to use the NOLs could be substantially limited. This limit could impact the timing of the usage of the NOLs, thus accelerating cash tax payments or causing NOLs to expire prior to their use, which could affect the ultimate realization of that asset. In January 2009, we adopted a rights plan (the “Rights Plan”) that was approved by our stockholders at our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders. The Rights Plan is intended to protect our NOLs from the potential negative consequence of an ownership change as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The Rights Plan is designed to deter acquisitions of our common stock that would (i) result in a stockholder owning 4.9% or more of our outstanding shares, or (ii) increase an existing 4.9% or greater stockholder’s percentage ownership of our stock as of January 20, 2009 by greater than 0.5% of our outstanding shares, by diluting the ownership interest of a stockholder whose ownership after the adoption of the Rights Plan exceeds those thresholds, unless the stockholder obtains an exemption from our Board of Directors. Although the Rights Plan is intended to reduce the likelihood of an ownership change that could adversely affect us, we cannot assure that it would prevent all transfers that could result in such an ownership change. In particular, it would not protect against ownership changes resulting from sales by certain greater than 5% stockholders that may trigger limitations on our use of NOLs under Section 382. Because the Rights Plan may restrict a stockholder’s ability to acquire our stock, the liquidity and market value of our stock might be affected. The Rights Plan will terminate upon the earliest of (1) our Board of Directors’ determination that the Rights Plan is no longer needed for the preservation of NOLs due to the implementation of legislative changes, or any other reason; (2) January 20, 2012 or (3) certain other events described in the Rights Plan, including our Board of Directors’ determination that termination is in our best interest. Our Board of Directors could determine to extend the term of the Rights Plan upon the expiration of its current term or adopt another Rights Plan, subject to subsequent ratification by our stockholders, if it determines that our substantial NOLs are at risk of limitation under Section 382 or that such action otherwise is in the best interests of our stockholders. We have experienced reductions in switched access and reciprocal compensation revenue as a result of regulatory rate reform, and we may experience further such reductions in the future. Over time, FCC and state regulations have had the result of reducing our switched access and reciprocal compensation revenue. The FCC has been considering proposals for an integrated intercarrier compensation regime under which all traffic exchanged between carriers would be subject to a unified rate or to “bill and keep,” meaning that the exchange of traffic would generate no revenue or expense. Such changes could materially reduce our intercarrier compensation revenue. We cannot predict the outcome of the pending FCC rule-making related to intercarrier compensation. In addition, some states have adopted, and other states are considering, rules that cap CLECs’ switched access rates. Switched access and reciprocal compensation have both been declining over time and together represented 3% of our total revenue in each of the years ended 2008, 2009 and 2010. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compensate for the reduction in intercarrier compensation revenue with other revenue sources. 24 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by the exhaustion of IP Version 4 (“IPv4”) IP addresses. The Internet Protocol is designed to interconnect networks and transmit data back and forth over various telecommunications infrastructures by routing data packets from end-to-end across disparate networks. Routing of these packets is based on the destination IP address. IPv4 is the Internet Protocol presently in use by most providers and has space for over 4 billion unique IP addresses. Providers of Internet services and VoIP like us must assign IP addresses to customers in connection with the services they provide. The proliferation of these services with their associated endpoint devices has increased demand for IP addresses, and numbering registries that manage the available IPv4 addresses have announced that allocations of publicly available IPv4 addresses are no longer available. To offset this exhaustion and add new capacity for service expansion, the industry has developed IPv6 that provides vastly increased IP address space. The transition from IPv4 to IPv6 can be cumbersome which could prevent customers from migrating to this new addressing format, and there is no fixed date by which it must be achieved. While we currently have enough IPv4 addresses for the foreseeable future, depending on the length of time it takes for customers to adopt an IPv6 addressing format, we may not be able to obtain sufficient IPv4 addresses to meet our customers’ demand for our Internet access services that require IP addresses, which may adversely impact our ability to sell certain of our services, our revenue and other financial results. We are increasingly dependent on automation and systems. As we grow our business we have increased our dependency on automation and systems in order to scale our business. If our key systems become impaired for any significant period of time, our ability to service our customers at current levels or provision or bill for our services could be adversely affected. We depend on key personnel for our current and future performance. Our senior management team has performed effectively as a team over a considerable period of time. Our current and future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel. We have not experienced significant turnover among these employees. The loss or unavailability of members of our senior management team or key employees could cause disruption to our business. We cannot assure that we would be able to successfully implement our succession plans or identify or employ qualified replacements for senior management or key employees on acceptable terms if their services are no longer available. Unanticipated turnover may also adversely affect the performance of our senior management team or other internal organizations. We must obtain access to rights-of-way and pole attachments on reasonable terms and conditions; IRUs of fiber and capacity that are important to our operations may not be renewed. The development, expansion, and maintenance of our network depend, in part, on our ability to obtain rights-of-way and pole attachments as well as certain governmental authorizations and permits. In order to compete effectively, we must obtain such rights, authorizations and permits in a timely manner, at reasonable costs, and on satisfactory terms and conditions. Any increase in the difficulty or cost of obtaining these rights, authorizations or permits could adversely affect us, particularly in areas where we must compete with companies that already have the necessary permits and access. In certain cities and municipalities where we provide network services over our own fiber optic facilities, we pay license or franchise fees for the use of public rights-of-way. The 1996 Act permits municipalities to charge these fees only if they are competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory, but certain municipalities may not conform their practices to the requirements of the 1996 Act in a timely manner or without legal challenge. We also face the risk that other cities may start imposing new fees, existing fees will be increased or franchises will not be renewed. Some of our franchise agreements also provide for increases or renegotiation of fees at certain intervals. Increases in fees may have a negative impact on our financial condition. If any of our existing franchise 25 Table of Contents or license agreements for a particular metropolitan area are terminated prior to their expiration date and we are forced to remove our fiber optic cables from the streets or abandon our network in place, even with compensation, such termination could have a material adverse effect on us. A portion of our services are provided on network fiber facilities licensed or leased from cable companies and other CLECs through IRUs or similar arrangements. Most of the facilities under these agreements have terms of over 20 years and can be terminated earlier by the grantors if we materially breach the agreements or other events of default occur as defined in the agreements. Prior to expiration of the terms of these IRUs, we likely will have to negotiate for their renewal. We cannot assure that the parties will agree on the terms of any renewal or that the terms of any renewal will be favorable to us. If these agreements are not renewed or are terminated for default, we will have no further interest in the fiber capacity covered by those agreements and will likely need to build, lease or otherwise obtain alternative fiber network capacity. Recently enacted health care reform legislation and state and local tax charges may increase our costs. Congress recently enacted sweeping health care reform legislation that will be implemented on a staggered basis over the next eight years. Health care reform as mandated and implemented under the legislation and any future federal or state mandated health care reform may increase the costs of our employer-sponsored medical plans either directly or as a result of providers passing through their increased costs. If the cost increase is material, our financial condition could be adversely affected. Our tax burden has increased and could continue to increase, possibly to a significant degree, due to changes in state and local tax laws imposed by these jurisdictions in an attempt to reduce their budget deficits. These changes could include rate increases, removal of exemptions, suspension of the use of NOLs and other measures to raise their revenue. We cannot predict the degree to which these tax changes will affect our net income, M-EBITDA and cash flow. Terrorism or other business disruptions could affect our future operating results. Our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if there is a catastrophic event such as a terrorist attack on the United States, or a major earthquake, fire, hurricane, flood or similar event that affects our central offices, corporate headquarters, network operations centers or other facilities. Although we have implemented measures that are designed to mitigate the effects of a catastrophic event, we cannot predict the impact of such events. Our ability to offer residential and content services is limited by our Capacity License Agreements. Our Capacity License Agreements with the Cable Operations prohibit us from using facilities licensed under those agreements until 2028 to (i) engage in the business of providing, offering, packaging, marketing, promoting, or branding (alone or jointly with or as an agent for other parties) any residential services, or (ii) produce or otherwise provide entertainment, information, or other content services. Although we do not believe that these restrictions will materially affect our business and operations in the immediate future, we cannot predict the effect of such restrictions in the rapidly changing telecommunications industry. We do not currently have plans to offer residential or content services in any of our service areas. We depend on third party vendors for information systems and other operational functions. We have agreements with vendors that provide for the development and operation of IT systems such as billing systems and operational functions such as centralized equipment and spares management. The failure of these vendors to perform their services in a timely and effective manner at acceptable costs could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to monitor costs, bill customers, provision services, deploy equipment and achieve operating efficiencies. 26 Table of Contents We may be required to record impairment charges in the future. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to review the carrying amounts of our assets, including goodwill, to determine whether current events or circumstances warrant adjustments to those amounts. These determinations are based in part on our judgments regarding the cash flow potential of various assets, and involve projections that are inherently subject to change based on future events. If we determine in the future that the cash flow potential of any of our assets, including acquired assets, is significantly less than we believed at the time of purchase, and that conclusion is based on a long-term rather than short-term trend, we may need to record an impairment charge. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 