Item 1A. Risk Factors The current economic environment in the U.S. and globally could affect our future operating results. Beginning in late 2007 and throughout 2008 and 2009, the economic downturn had some impact on our business, reflected primarily in longer sales cycles, decreased sales and revenue growth and higher customer disconnections mostly by customers in our acquired customer base, other smaller customers, mortgage-related customers and carriers, that dampened our revenue growth. If current conditions persist or worsen, there is risk that customer disconnections may accelerate, bad debt could increase, prices and new sales may decline or sales may be delayed due to decreased demand for our services, customer cash flow constraints, customer credit deteriorations and other factors. Our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if there were to be a material adverse change in any of these factors. The economic downturn could also amplify the effect on our results of normal fluctuations in our revenue, margins and cash flow due to the timing of sales and installations, disputes and dispute resolutions and pricing declines upon contract renewals and seasonality in sales and usage-based services. In addition, the economic downturn could also impact key vendors that supply critical equipment and software or other goods and services that we rely upon in the provision of our services. There is no assurance that we could replace key products or services with alternate providers on a timely basis if our key vendors face a financial crisis. We may be unable to sustain our revenue and cash flow growth despite the implementation of several initiatives designed to do so. We must grow our business and revenue in order to generate sufficient cash flow that, together with funds available under our credit facility, will be sufficient to fund our capital expenditures and our debt service requirements. We have pursued several growth initiatives, including: • Increasing network investments in existing markets to expand our network reach; • Launching new products and services, especially products and services that support customers’ data and IP needs; • Customer care initiatives targeted at customer retention activities; • Enhancing our ability to compete for multi-location customers; • Increasing our network reach through acquisitions; • Increasing sales force productivity; and • Advancing our network and systems to create increased efficiencies, capabilities and customer control over their services. Our ability to manage this expansion depends on many factors, including our ability to: • Attract new customers and sell new services to existing customers; • Acquire and install transmission facilities and related equipment at reasonable costs; • Employ new technologies; • Obtain required permits and rights-of-way; • Enhance our financial, operating, and information systems to effectively manage our growth; • Accurately predict and manage the cost and timing of our capital expenditure programs; and • Remain competitive against much larger, better-funded incumbent carriers. There is no assurance that our growth initiatives will continue to result in an improvement in our financial position or our results of operations. Prior to 2009, we incurred net losses even during periods of increasing revenue. Although we had net income in 2009, certain factors could cause losses including, among others, economic conditions, industry consolidations, decreased demand, customers disconnecting services, regulatory and contractual rate reductions, revenue disputes, significant increases in our special access costs due to adverse 17 Table of Contents regulatory changes or otherwise, increases in federal or state tax expense and changes in accounting standards (see Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements”). Our revenue, margins and cash flow are subject to fluctuations that may be magnified by impact of the current or a future economic downturn. We have historically experienced and expect to continue to experience fluctuations in our revenue, margins, and cash flow in the normal course of business from customer and service disconnections, the timing of sales and installations, including seasonality of sales and usage, customer and carrier disputes and dispute resolutions, repricing of services upon contract renewals, and expenses and capital expenditures. The current economic climate may magnify the impacts of these factors. However, we cannot predict the total impact on revenue, margins, and cash flows from these items. Several customers account for a significant portion of our revenue, and some of our customers may disconnect their services due to customer consolidations, financial difficulties or other factors. We have substantial business relationships with a few large customers, especially other carriers. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 21% of our total revenue. The highly competitive environment in the long haul carrier sector, including interexchange carriers, has challenged the financial condition and growth prospects of some of our carrier customers and could lead to reductions in our revenue in the future. Our service agreements with customers that have already satisfied their initial terms are subject to termination by the customer on short notice and do not require the customer to maintain the services at current levels. After expiration of their current agreements, customers may not choose to continue to purchase the same services or level of services. Increasing consolidation in the telecommunications industry has occurred in recent years, and if any of our customers are acquired we may lose a significant portion of their business. Average lost recurring monthly billing from customers’ partial or complete service disconnections was 1.3%, 1.2%, and 1.1% of total monthly revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We continue to experience customer and service disconnections in the normal course of business primarily associated with industry consolidation, customer network optimization, cost cutting, business contractions, customer financial difficulties, discontinuance of certain acquired products or price competition from other providers. We believe that the economic downturn contributed to an increase in churn beginning in late 2007 and throughout 2008 and 2009. We expect revenue churn to remain elevated at least until the economy recovers and to continue to pressure revenue growth. While we expect that some customers will continue to disconnect services for the reasons mentioned above, we cannot predict the total impact on revenue from these disconnections or the timing of such disconnections. Replacing this revenue with new revenue from other customers may be difficult. Among other factors, individual enterprise customers tend to place smaller service orders than some of our larger carrier customers. In addition, pricing pressure on some of our services, particularly with respect to smaller bandwidth customers with single-site needs and very large customers, as well customers’ heightened cost cutting initiatives due to the economy, may challenge our ability to grow our revenue. In addition, we expect revenue will continue to be impacted by pricing declines to current levels for some existing customers that renew services with expired terms. The market for our services is highly competitive, and many of our competitors have significant advantages that may adversely affect our ability to compete with them. We operate in an increasingly competitive environment and some companies may have competitive advantages over us. Most ILECs offer substantially the same services as we offer, in some cases at higher prices and in some cases at lower prices. ILECs benefit from: • Their name recognition; • Greater financial and technical resources; 18 Table of Contents • Broader network coverage; • The ability to bundle and subsidize services that compete with ours from other services; and • Regulatory decisions that decrease regulatory oversight of ILECs. Consolidations involving ILECs, CLECs and others may result in fewer, but much larger and more effective competitors. We also face competition from other CLECs and cable television companies. Our revenue and margins may also be reduced from price cutting by other telecommunications service providers that may pressure our pricing or require us to adjust prices for existing services upon contract renewals. In the past year, our revenue was impacted by competitive pricing pressure from other telecommunications service providers on certain products such as integrated service bundles for small customers, high capacity Internet access and inter-city POP to POP dedicated services. In some of the markets in which we operate we may experience intense competition for particular customers, which could adversely affect our future revenue and margins. If we do not adapt to rapid changes in the telecommunications industry and continue to offer services that satisfy customers’ needs, we could lose customers or market share. The telecommunications industry continues to experience rapid and significant changes in technologies and architectures to deliver new services to customers. We expect that trend to continue into the foreseeable future. Additionally, we expect that these new technologies will enable new applications that will facilitate new services both in our networks as well as at customers’ premises. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate or adapt to these changes and integrate them into the infrastructure and operations of our business, in order to offer services that meet customer needs and demands on a timely basis. Our failure to obtain and integrate new technologies and applications and other factors could impact the breadth of our service portfolio resulting in gaps, a less differentiated service suite and a less compelling offering to customers, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial existing debt and debt service requirements could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations under our debt. As of December 31, 2009, our total long term debt and capital lease obligations were approximately $1.3 billion. Our level of debt may affect our operations and our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness. Subject to certain covenants in our credit agreement and the indentures for our outstanding senior notes, we may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness could, for example: • Limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other corporate purposes; • Make us more vulnerable to the current and future economic downturns or other adverse developments than less leveraged competitors; and • Decrease our ability to withstand competitive pressures. Our revolving credit facility, Term Loan B and the indenture relating to our senior notes contain restrictive covenants that may limit our flexibility, and breach of those covenants may cause us to be in default under those agreements. The credit agreement for our revolving credit facility, Term Loan B (“Term Loan”), and the indenture relating to our senior notes limit, and in some circumstances prohibit, our ability to, among other things: • Incur additional debt; • Pay dividends; 19 Table of Contents • Make capital expenditures, investments or other restricted payments; • Engage in sale-leaseback transactions; • Engage in transactions with stockholders and affiliates; • Guarantee debts; • Create liens; • Sell assets; • Repurchase our common stock; and • Engage in mergers and acquisitions. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand the current or future economic downturns, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. In addition, if we do not comply with these restrictions and financial covenants in our credit agreement that require us to maintain certain minimum financial ratios if we draw on our revolving credit facility, the indebtedness outstanding under our credit agreement, and by reason of cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions, our senior notes and any other outstanding indebtedness we may then have, could become immediately due and payable. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the credit agreement could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation proceeding or proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the lenders under our credit agreement were to accelerate the repayment of outstanding borrowings, we might not have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness. In addition, the lenders under our revolving credit facility could refuse to lend funds if we are not in compliance with our financial covenants, such as leverage and interest coverage ratios that are primarily derived from EBITDA (see note 6 to Item 6. “Selected Financial Data”), debt levels and interest expense. A lack of revenue growth or an inability to control costs could negatively impact our EBITDA margins and cause our failure to meet the minimum required ratios. We could fail to comply with the covenants in the future due to many factors, including losses of revenue due to customer disconnects or other factors, or reduction in margins due to pricing pressures or rising costs. Even if we meet the conditions for borrowing under the revolving credit facility, we may be unable to draw upon the entire commitment if any of our lenders are unable to perform their obligations to advance funds due to their own financial difficulties. We will require substantial capital to expand our operations and may not be able to obtain additional financing due to recent and possible future disruptions in the financial markets. The development and expansion of our networks requires substantial capital investment. If this capital is not available when needed, our business will be adversely affected. Our 2009 capital expenditures were $274.9 million and our estimate of our 2010 capital expenditures is $275 million to $300 million. We also expect to have substantial capital expenditures thereafter. Based on current assumptions, we expect to generate sufficient cash from operations along with available cash on hand, including cash equivalents, investments and borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility to provide sufficient funds to meet our expected capital expenditure and liquidity needs to operate our business and service our debt for the foreseeable future. However, we may be required to seek financing in addition to our wholly-owned subsidiary’s unused $80 million senior secured revolving credit facility if: • Our business plans and cost estimates are inaccurate; • We are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, fund our capital expenditures and finance our business operations; • We experience a significant reduction in demand for our products or an acceleration of customer disconnects; 20 Table of Contents • We decide to significantly accelerate the expansion of our business and existing networks; or • We wish to consummate acquisitions or joint ventures or other strategic transactions that require incremental capital. Widely-reported disruptions in the commercial credit market have resulted in a tightening of credit markets worldwide, making it more difficult and costly to obtain new lines of credit and access the equity markets. Although the debt and equity markets improved somewhat in 2009, it is difficult to predict whether this trend will continue and whether we would be able to obtain additional financing, if we need it, on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the current credit environment, any additional financing we might seek could be with rates and terms significantly less favorable than those contained in our current Term Loan or revolving credit facility. Other risks, such as a rating downgrade could further impact our potential access to financing sources. The failure to raise sufficient funds if needed and on reasonable terms may require us to modify or significantly curtail our business plan. This could have a material adverse impact on our growth, ability to compete, and ability to service our debt. We may be adversely impacted by deterioration in the financial condition of financial institutions or mutual funds that hold our investments. Our cash, cash equivalents and investments are held in financial institutions, U.S. treasury money market funds, U.S. treasury securities and corporate debt securities guaranteed by the federal government’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. We are exposed to risks resulting from deterioration in the financial condition of financial institutions holding our cash deposits, decisions of the investment managers of the money market funds and defaults in securities underlying the funds. We actively monitor the depository institutions and the performance of the mutual funds that hold our cash, cash equivalents and investments. Since the beginning of the current financial downturn, we have entirely prioritized safety over investment return in choosing the investment vehicles for cash and cash equivalents and diversified these investments to the extent practical to minimize our exposure to any one mutual fund or financial institution. However, this strategy has also resulted in a significant decline in our interest income from cash and equivalent investments. We may change the nature of our investments, including those in cash equivalents, as market conditions change. Our daily cash sweeps are managed through a banking institution that we believe is not presently at risk of failure. Balances in our accounts with financial institutions in the U.S. may exceed the FDIC insurance limit when it is impractical to spread these amounts over multiple institutions. Although we have prioritized the safety of our cash, cash equivalents and investments, we cannot assure that access to our cash, cash equivalents and investments will not be impacted by additional and yet unforeseeable adverse conditions in the financial markets. While we monitor and adjust the cash balances in our accounts as appropriate, our ability to access these cash balances could be impacted if the financial institutions fail, if there are defaults in the securities that are held in money market funds, if the investment managers of the mutual funds fail, or there are other unforeseen adverse conditions in the financial markets. In 2008 and 2007, we recorded impairment charges of $7.8 million and $7.3 million, respectively, on commercial paper investments with exposure to sub-prime mortgages that were past their maturity dates. In 2009, we did not record any additional impairment charges related to these investments. The carrying value of these securities is $3.0 million at December 31, 2009. Any additional impairment charges would have a negative impact on our earnings. We may complete a significant business combination or other transaction that could increase our shares outstanding, and may result in a change in control, and increase our debt. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other arrangements that would extend our geographic markets, expand our services, enlarge the capacity of our networks or expand the types of services provided through our networks. If we enter into a definitive agreement for any acquisition, joint venture or other arrangement, we may require additional financing that could result in an increase in our debt, result in a change of control, increase the number of outstanding shares, or all of these effects. A substantial transaction may require the consent of our lenders. There can be no assurance that we will enter into any transaction or, if we do, on what terms. In addition, the success of any significant acquisition or business combination is dependent, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate the acquired business into ours, which also carries substantial risks. 21 Table of Contents Our ability to use net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards to reduce future tax payments could be negatively impacted if there is an “ownership change” as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and our Section 382 stockholder rights plan, which is intended to help preserve our NOLs, may not be effective. We have substantial NOLs for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and under the Internal Revenue Code, we may “carry forward” these NOLs, in certain circumstances to offset any current and future taxable income and thus reduce our federal income tax liability, subject to certain requirements and restrictions. If we experience an “ownership change,” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and related Treasury regulations at a time when our market capitalization is below a certain level, our ability to use the NOLs could be substantially limited. This limit could impact the timing of the usage of the NOLs, thus accelerating cash tax payments and/or causing NOLs to expire prior to their use, which could affect the ultimate realization of that asset. On January 20, 2009, we adopted a rights plan (the “Rights Plan”), that was approved by our stockholders at our June 4, 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The Rights Plan is intended to protect our NOLs from the potential negative consequence of an ownership change as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The Rights Plan is designed to deter acquisitions of our common stock that would result in a stockholder owning 4.9% or more of our outstanding shares or increase an existing 4.9% or greater stockholder’s percentage ownership of our stock as of January 20, 2009 by greater than 0.5% of our outstanding shares by diluting the ownership interest of a stockholder whose ownership after the adoption of the Rights Plan exceeds those thresholds, unless the stockholder obtains an exemption from our Board of Directors. Although the Rights Plan is intended to reduce the likelihood of an ownership change that could adversely affect us, we cannot assure that it would prevent all transfers that could result in such an ownership change. In particular, it would not protect against ownership changes resulting from sales by certain greater than 5% stockholders that may trigger limitations on our use of NOLs under Section 382. Because the Rights Plan may restrict a stockholder’s ability to acquire our stock, the liquidity and market value of our stock might be affected. The Rights Plan will terminate upon the earliest of (1) our Board of Directors’ determination that the Rights Plan is no longer needed for the preservation of NOLs due to the implementation of legislative changes, or any other reason; (2) January 20, 2012 or (3) certain other events described in the Rights Plan, including our Board of Directors’ determination that termination is in our best interest. We have experienced reductions in switched access and reciprocal compensation revenue as a result of regulatory rate reform, and we may experience further such reductions in the future. Over the past several years, FCC and state regulations have reduced our switched access and reciprocal compensation revenue. The FCC has been considering proposals for an integrated intercarrier compensation regime under which all traffic exchanged between carriers would be subject to a unified rate. Such changes could materially reduce our switched access revenue from other carriers. We cannot predict the outcome of pending FCC rule makings related to inter-carrier compensation. In addition some states have adopted, and other states are considering, rules that cap CLECs’ switched access rates. Switched access and reciprocal compensation together have been declining over time and represented 4%, 3% and 3% of our 2007, 2008 and 2009 revenue, respectively. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compensate for the reduction in intercarrier compensation revenue with other revenue sources or increased volume. We may be adversely affected by changes in the regulation of special access services. We purchase special access circuits and other services from ILECs to expand the reach of our networks and also provide special access services over our fiber facilities in competition with the ILECs. A significant change in the regulations governing special access services could result in either significant reductions in the special access prices charged by our ILEC competitors or in the elimination of regulations that increase the likelihood that ILECs will sell us special access on reasonable terms and conditions. 22 Table of Contents The FCC is currently reviewing its regulation of special access in a pending proceeding opened in 2005. We have advocated that the FCC modify its special access pricing flexibility rules to return these services to price–cap regulation to protect against unreasonable price increases. The FCC has recently asked for public comment on a framework for analysis of the special access market, but we do not know when or if the FCC will act on interstate special access regulation in 2010 and how that action would impact us. The FCC’s order that approved the merger of BellSouth Corporation into AT&T included a number of conditions that provided us with rate stability and modest cost savings for special access and UNEs through mid-2010. We cannot predict whether and the extent to which AT&T’s special access pricing will increase after the expiration of these merger conditions. We are currently negotiating a new contract with AT&T to take effect in mid-2010 that would replace an existing agreement that expires at that time. This new agreement could result in higher prices for some of the special access services that we purchase from AT&T. If the prices that we must pay for special access increase materially, our margins could be adversely affected. The ILECs have filed numerous petitions with the FCC for forbearance from regulation of their broadband special access services, including Ethernet services offered as special access. The FCC has generally granted these petitions with the result that prices for Ethernet and OC-n high capacity data services of these carriers, which we have purchased in limited quantities, are no longer price regulated. We and several of our competitors appealed these FCC rulings, but the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals recently upheld the FCC’s decision. These FCC actions did not impact the availability of the tariffed TDM special access circuits that we use for off-net building access. We expect that the ILECs will continue to advocate deregulation of all forms of special access services, and we cannot predict the outcome of the FCC’s proceedings in this regard. As a result, we cannot assure that we will continue to be able to obtain special access services at reasonable rates, on a timely basis or that the quality of service we receive will be acceptable. If we experience difficulties in obtaining high-quality, reliable, and reasonably priced service from the ILECs, and are unable to obtain the same services from other carriers, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or our margins could be adversely affected. We depend on key personnel for our current and future performance. Our current and future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel. The loss or unavailability of members of our senior management team or key employees could significantly harm us. We cannot assure that we would be able to locate or employ qualified replacements on acceptable terms for senior management or key employees if their services are no longer available. We may be required to record impairment charges in the future. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP, we are required to review the carrying amounts of our assets, including goodwill, to determine whether current events or circumstances warrant adjustments to those amounts. These determinations are based in part on our judgments regarding the cash flow potential of various assets, and involve projections that are inherently subject to change based on future events. If we conclude in the future that the cash flow potential of any of our assets, including those acquired in the Xspedius transaction, is significantly less than we believed at the time of purchase, and that conclusion is based on a long-term rather than short-term trend, we may need to record an impairment charge. Terrorism or other business disruptions could affect our future operating results. Our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected in the event of a catastrophic event such as a terrorist attack on the United States, or a major earthquake, fire, hurricane or similar event that affects our central offices, corporate headquarters, network operations center or other facilities. Although we have implemented measures that are designed to mitigate the effects of a catastrophic event, we cannot predict the impact of such events. 23 Table of Contents We depend on third party vendors for information systems. We have entered into agreements with vendors that provide for the development and operation of information technology systems such as billing systems. The failure of those vendors to perform their services in a timely and effective manner at acceptable costs could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to monitor costs, bill customers, provision customer orders, and achieve operating efficiencies. We must obtain access to rights-of-way and pole attachments on reasonable terms and conditions; capacity license agreements are important to our operations. The development, expansion, and maintenance of our networks depend, in part, on our ability to obtain rights-of-way and pole attachments as well as certain governmental authorizations and permits. In order to compete effectively, we must obtain such rights, authorizations and permits in a timely manner, at reasonable costs, and on satisfactory terms and conditions. Any increase in the difficulty or cost of obtaining these rights, authorizations or permits could adversely affect us, particularly in areas where we must compete with companies that already have the necessary permits and access. In certain cities and municipalities where we provide network services over our own fiber optic facilities, we pay license or franchise fees for the use of public rights-of-way. The 1996 Act permits municipalities to charge these fees only if they are competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory, but certain municipalities may not conform their practices to the requirements of the 1996 Act in a timely manner or without legal challenge. We also face the risk that other cities may start imposing fees, fees will be increased, or franchises will not be renewed. Some of our franchise agreements also provide for increases or renegotiation of fees at certain intervals. Increases in fees may have a negative impact on our financial condition. If any of our existing franchise or license agreements for a particular metropolitan area are terminated prior to their expiration date and we are forced to remove our fiber optic cables from the streets or abandon our network in place, even with compensation, such termination could have a material adverse effect on us. We currently license fiber optic capacity from the Cable Operations in 23 of our markets, and we must reimburse the Cable Operations for pole attachment fees associated with the fiber optic capacity we license from them. The Cable Operations may terminate our Capacity License Agreements before expiration upon: • A material impairment of the licensor’s ability to provide the license by law; • A material breach of the capacity license by us; or • The institution of any proceedings to impose any public utility or common carrier status or obligations on the licensor, or any other proceedings challenging the licensor’s operating authority as a result of the services provided to us under the capacity license. If the Capacity License Agreements are terminated prior to their scheduled expiration in 2028 or are not renewed, we would likely have to build, lease, or otherwise obtain replacement fiber optic capacity. The terms of those arrangements may be materially less favorable to us than the terms of our existing capacity license. In addition, the Capacity License Agreements prohibit us from offering residential services or content services utilizing the licensed capacity. Our ability to offer residential and content services is limited by our Capacity License Agreements. Our Capacity License Agreements with the Cable Operations prohibit us from using facilities licensed under those agreements until 2028 to (i) engage in the business of providing, offering, packaging, marketing, promoting, or branding (alone or jointly with or as an agent for other parties) any residential services, or (ii) produce or otherwise provide entertainment, information, or other content services. Although we do not believe that these restrictions will materially affect our business and operations in the immediate future, we cannot predict the effect of such restrictions in the rapidly changing telecommunications industry. We do not currently have plans to offer residential or content services in any of our service areas. 24 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 