Item 1A. Risk Factors Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results In addition to the factors discussed in the “Overview” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” sections of Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation,” the following additional factors may affect our future results. Many of these factors are beyond our control, including business cycles and seasonal trends of the computing, semiconductor and related industries. Matters related to the internal review of our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our financial statements may result in additional litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. Our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. For more information regarding our current litigation and related inquiries, please see the discussion included in Part I, Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings,” of this Report as well as the other risk factors related to litigation set forth in this section. We have provided the results of our internal review to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and the United States Attorney’s Office for the 18 Northern District of California, and in that regard we have responded to formal and informal requests for documents and additional information. The SEC is conducting a formal inquiry into our historical stock option granting practices and we received a grand jury subpoena from the United States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of California requesting documents relating to our historical stock option granting practices. No assurance can be given regarding the outcomes of litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions relating to our past stock option practices. The resolution of these matters will be time consuming and expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. Further, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed against us, our directors, executive officers or other officers, or employees, which could harm our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, while we believe that we have, in completing the restatement of our financial statements, made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates and disclosures relating to our stock option investigation, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we reported the results of the investigation or accounted for and reported, or did not report, the corresponding financial impact. Accordingly, it is possible that we will be required to restate further our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. A number of our current and former executive officers and directors have been named as parties to several derivative action lawsuits arising from our internal option review, and there is a possibility of additional lawsuits, all of which could require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses. We are subject to a number of lawsuits purportedly on behalf of us against certain of our current and former executive officers and board members, and we may become the subject of additional private lawsuits. Subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees in connection with the investigation of our historical stock option practices and such lawsuits. The expenses associated with these lawsuits may be significant, the amount of time to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable and defending these lawsuits may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business, results of operations and cash flows. Recent changes in our management may cause uncertainty in, or be disruptive to, our business. We have recently experienced significant changes in our management and our board of directors. In May 2007, our former Chief Financial Officer resigned and our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, who is one of our co-founders, resigned from those positions and as a member of our board of directors and will continue in a non-management role. Also, the general counsel of our U.S. operating subsidiary was terminated in March 2007. We are conducting a search for a permanent Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel. We have also commenced a search for three new independent directors to fill existing vacancies on our board of directors, one of whom will succeed Dr. Sehat Sutardja as Chairman of the Board. We cannot assure you that we will find qualified candidates in a timely manner. These changes in our management and board of directors may be disruptive to our business, and, during the transition period, there may be uncertainty among customers, investors, vendors, employees and others concerning our future direction and performance. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the ability of our management team to work together effectively. The loss of any of our management or other key personnel could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. Moreover, our success will depend on our ability to attract, hire and retain management and other key personnel and on the abilities of the new management personnel to function effectively, both individually and as a group, going forward. If we are unable to attract and retain effective permanent replacements for our key 19 executives in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected and our ability to execute our business model could be impaired. Competition for qualified senior employees can be intense. We may experience difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled individuals with appropriate qualifications to support our growth and expansion. For example, both our interim Chief Financial Officer and interim General Counsel may choose not to participate as candidates in our search to fill these positions. If we fail to attract, hire and retain qualified management individuals, it could lead to dissatisfaction among our customers, which could slow our growth or result in a loss of business. We have been named as a party to several purported class action and derivative lawsuits relating to our past option granting practices, and we may be named in additional litigation, all of which could cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to suffer. We have been named as a nominal defendant in purported shareholder derivative actions that name a number of our current and former directors and officers as defendants and that seek to recover damages purportedly sustained by us in connection with our option granting practices. Further, putative class actions have been filed against us and certain of our officers and directors that allege violations of the federal securities laws and seek to recover damages. We may in the future be subject to additional litigation relating to our past option granting practices. Regardless of the outcome, this litigation, and any other litigation that may be brought against us or our directors and officers, could be time consuming, result in significant expense, and divert the attention and resources of our management and other key employees. An unfavorable outcome in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The matters relating to the internal review of our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our financial statements may otherwise adversely impact our business. As a result of our delayed filing of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended July 29, 2006, October 28, 2006, and April 27, 2007 and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2007, we will be ineligible to register our securities on Form S-3 for sale by us or resale by others. We may use Form S-1 to raise capital or complete acquisitions, but doing so could increase transaction costs and adversely impact our ability to raise capital or complete acquisitions of other companies in a timely manner. Employees who were awarded options that were granted at a discount from fair market value and were all or partially unvested as of December 31, 2004, which we refer to as discount options, may be subject to income tax liability on the vesting date of those discount options in addition to a 20% excise tax under Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) section 409A. California has adopted IRC 409A and therefore a 20% excise tax will be levied on all California employees. In considering actions that we believe would be in the best interests of our shareholders and employees and might substantially reduce or eliminate section 409A exposure and adverse state tax liability for our employees, we have elected to comply with the Franchise Tax Board Notice 2007-1 program in California. The program allows us to pay the additional 20% tax and interest due to the exercise of certain discounted stock options in 2006 pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code §17501. There is no guarantee that this measure to address employees’ adverse tax consequences will be effective or successful. Any such measures may cause us to incur additional cash or noncash compensation expense. In addition, these measures, or the failure of these measures, may require us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, could cause employee satisfaction and retention issues, and may divert our management’s attention from our business, which could in the future harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 20 We have had material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. We have determined that we have had material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm our business. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management and our auditors to evaluate and assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In assessing the findings of our internal review with respect to our historical stock option practices and related accounting matters, our management concluded that there were material weaknesses, as defined in Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Auditing Standard No. 2, in our internal control over financial reporting. See the discussion included in Part II, Item 9A — “Controls and Procedures,” of this Report for additional information regarding our internal control over financial reporting, including planned remediation. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and interim Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, involving us have been, or will be, detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake, and errors discovered by personnel within control systems may not be properly disclosed and addressed. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We cannot assure you that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. We may not be able to effectively and timely implement necessary control changes and employee training to ensure continued compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other regulatory and reporting requirements. Our rapid growth and numerous acquisitions in recent periods, and our possible future expansion through additional acquisitions, present challenges to maintain the internal control and disclosure control standards applicable to public companies. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. If we fail to maintain effective 21 internal controls we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and sanctions and investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fully comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or that management or our auditors will conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in future periods. We have not been in compliance with SEC periodic reporting requirements and NASDAQ listing requirements and may continue to face compliance issues with both, which could result in the delisting of our common shares from The NASDAQ Stock Market. As a result of our failure to timely file our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended July 29, 2006 and October 28, 2006 (the “Fiscal 2007 10-Qs”), this annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2007 (the “10-K”) and the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 28, 2007 (“Q1 Fiscal 2008 10-Q”) (together with the Fiscal 2007 10-Qs, the “delayed Forms 10-Q”), we have not been in full compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) which requires us to make, on a timely basis, all filings with the SEC required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. With the filing of this 10-K and the Fiscal 2007 10-Qs, which have been filed concurrently, we still must file our Q1 Fiscal 2008 10-Q to regain compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14). We expect to file our Q1 Fiscal 2008 10-Q as soon as practicable. If the SEC disagrees with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of past stock option grants, there could be further delays in filing subsequent SEC reports or other actions that might result in delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. If we are unable to maintain compliance with the conditions for continued listing required by NASDAQ, then our shares of common stock may be subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. If our shares of common stock are delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market, they may not be eligible to trade on any national securities exchange or the over-the counter market. If our common stock is no longer traded through a market system, the liquidity of our common stock may be greatly reduced, which could negatively affect its price. In addition, we may be unable to obtain future equity financing, or use our common stock as consideration for mergers or other business combinations. A delisting from the NASDAQ Global Select Market may also have other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest, and fewer business development opportunities. We are obligated to purchase and pre-pay for specified volumes of wafers from Intel Corporation which will adversely affect our cash flow and could lead to inventory write-downs and related charges to our earnings, but Intel is not obligated to increase supply if we encounter unexpected demand. In connection with our acquisition of Intel’s communications and application processor business, we entered into a supply agreement with Intel in an effort to secure supplies of the products and wafers that we will need to sell the acquired product lines. Under the terms of the supply agreement we have committed to purchase and Intel has agreed to supply, through June 2008, a minimum number of wafers at fixed prices. If at the end of any Intel fiscal quarter, there is a shortfall between the quantity of supply ordered by us and the quantities of supply required under the supply agreement commitment, Intel can invoice us for the shortfall and will deliver the corresponding quantity upon receipt of payment from us. The agreement requires us to prepay for certain wafers six months in advance of delivery and issue non cancellable purchase orders at least six months in advance of requested delivery dates for all purchases under the supply agreement. The supply agreement contractually commits us to purchase supply from Intel regardless of future end customer demand for these products. The amount of wafers we committed to purchase was largely based on our forecasted demand over an extended period of time. Forecasting demand over such a period of time is difficult and is subject to many risks. If the level of demand does not materialize to consume the 22 product we are obligated to purchase from Intel, we may record additional charges for excess inventory purchases and commitments which could be material. The supply agreement also requires us to purchase inventory earlier than anticipated product shipments to our customers. As a result, we expect our inventory balances for these products to increase, resulting in higher inventory balances and the associated carrying costs. Additionally, these higher levels of inventory increase our risk of holding excess and obsolete inventory. This could harm our business, results of operations and cash flows by leading to inventory write-downs and related charges to our earnings. The supply agreement also limits the amount of product that Intel is required to supply to us. If we experience an increase in demand, we might not be able to secure enough supply from Intel to meet that demand. This would lead to lost sales in the short term as well as the long term due to possible customer dissatisfaction. If we are unable to successfully transition and secure production capacity for our communications and application processor business, we could lose a significant portion of that business. Our supply agreement with Intel was entered into to secure a supply of wafers and products during a transition period while we arranged for our independent foundries and other contractors to begin fabrication, assembly and test for these products. Intel is only obligated to supply specified quantities of product for a limited amount of time, no later than June 2008. Some of these products are at earlier stages in their new product introduction processes, where manufacturing yields are not yet consistent and changes to the design and processes may still have to be made. This can make the transition of the manufacture of these products to independent foundries and other contractors more complicated and expensive. If we do not successfully transition the production of the wafers and products to independent foundries and other contractors, we will be unable to meet customer demand for these products. This could result in a material decline in revenues, net income, and cash flow. Additionally, our customers could become dissatisfied with us and not continue to use our products if and when we were able to resume providing them with products or if the newly transitioned products would require extended customer re-qualification. Our recent acquisitions and any future acquisitions could harm our operating results and share price. In 2005, we acquired the hard disk and tape drive controller semiconductor business of QLogic Corporation and the semiconductor design business division of UTStarcom, Inc. In May 2006, we acquired the printer semiconductor division of Avago Technologies, Pte. as well as certain intellectual property and property and equipment from another company. In November 2006, we purchased the communications and application processor business from Intel Corporation. Any of these acquisitions, as well as acquisitions in the future, could materially harm our operating results or liquidity as a result of possible concurrent issuances of dilutive equity securities or payment of cash. In addition, the purchase price of any acquired businesses may exceed the current fair values of the net tangible assets of the acquired businesses. As a result, we would be required to record material amounts of goodwill, and acquired in-process research and development charges and other intangible assets, which could result in significant impairment and acquired in-process research and development charges and amortization expense in future periods. These charges, in addition to the results of operations of such acquired businesses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we acquire a business that is operating at a loss or at lower overall gross margins than our businesses, as is the case with the communications and application processor business we acquired from Intel, our profitability will be harmed unless we can improve its performance. We cannot forecast the number, timing or size of future acquisitions, or the effect that any such acquisitions might have on our operating or financial results. 23 Under generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to review our intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. In addition, we are required to review our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on an annual basis. If presently unforeseen events or changes in circumstances arise which indicate that the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets may not be recoverable, we will be required to perform impairment reviews of these assets, which have carrying values of approximately $2.6 billion as of January 27, 2007. An impairment review could result in a write-down of all or a portion of these assets to their fair values. We intend to perform an annual impairment review during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if we believe indicators of impairment exist. In light of the large carrying value associated with our goodwill and intangible assets, any write-down of these assets may result in a significant charge to our statement of operations in the period any impairment is determined and could cause our stock price to decline. Past acquisitions and any future acquisitions or transactions may not be successful. We expect to continue to make acquisitions of, and investments in, businesses that offer complementary products, services and technologies, augment our market segment coverage, or enhance our technological capabilities. We may also enter into strategic alliances or joint ventures to achieve these goals. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment, alliance, or joint venture opportunities or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions or relationships on terms and conditions acceptable to us, or that such transactions or relationships will be successful. Any transactions or relationships will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered with those matters. Risks that could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition include, among other things: · the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses; · the potential disruption of our ongoing business; · the distraction of management from our business; · the potential inability of management to maximize our financial and strategic position as a result of an acquisition; · the potential for costs and delays in implementing, and the potential difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, including the integration of different information systems; · the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; · the risk of entering market segments in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such market segments have stronger market segment positions; · the risk that there could be deficiencies in the internal control of any acquired company or investments that could result in a material weakness in our overall internal controls taken as a whole; · the potential loss of key employees of an acquired company; and · the potential dilution of earnings through acquisitions and options granted to employees of acquired companies or businesses. Our ability to realize the expected benefits of our acquisition of the communications and application processor business of Intel Corporation and to eliminate the operating losses of that business will depend 24 in large part on our ability to transition the manufacturing of that business’ products from Intel to third-party foundries, increase the gross margin of those products, and retain the business’ relationship with its principal customers, as well as the factors described above relating to our ability to integrate effectively the acquired business and its technologies, operations and personnel. A significant portion of our business is dependent on the hard disk drive industry, which is highly cyclical, experiences rapid technological change, and is facing increased competition from alternate technologies. The hard disk drive industry is intensely competitive, and the technology changes rapidly. As a result, this industry is highly cyclical, with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction. These cycles may affect us because our customers are suppliers to this industry. Hard disk drive manufacturers tend to order more components than they may need during growth periods, and sharply reduce orders for components during periods of contraction. In addition, advances in existing technologies and the introduction of new technologies may result in lower demand for disk drive storage devices, thereby reducing demand for our products. Rapid technological changes in the hard disk drive industry often result in significant and rapid shifts in market share among the industry’s participants. If the hard disk drive manufacturers using our products do not retain or increase their market share, our sales may decrease. Future changes in the nature of information storage products may reduce demand for traditional hard disk drives. For instance, products using alternative technologies, such as semiconductor memory, optical storage, and other storage technologies could become a significant source of competition to manufacturers of hard disk drives. Flash memory has typically been more costly than disk drive technologies. However, flash memory manufacturers have been reducing the prices for their products, which could enable them to complete more effectively with very small form factor hard disk drive products. Demand for hard disk drives could be reduced if alternative storage technologies such as flash memory can meet customers’ cost and capacity requirements. We depend on a small number of large customers for a significant portion of our sales. The loss of, or a significant reduction or cancellation in sales to, any key customer would significantly reduce our revenues. In fiscal 2007, approximately 39% of our net revenue was derived from sales to three customers, each of which individually accounted for 10% or more of our net revenue during this period. Of these customers, Western Digital accounted for approximately 16%, Toshiba accounted for approximately 12% and Samsung accounted for approximately 11%. No distributor accounted for 10% of our net revenue during fiscal 2007. Sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer, as well as the continued diversification of our customer base as we expand into new markets, and will likely continue to fluctuate dramatically in the future. The loss of any of our largest customers, a significant reduction in sales we make to them, or any problems we encounter collecting amounts due from them would likely seriously harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our products. In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: · substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty; · our customers may develop their own solutions; · our customers may purchase integrated circuits from our competitors; or 25 · our customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products. If we are unable to accurately predict our future sales and to appropriately budget for our expenses, our operating results could suffer. The rapidly changing nature of the markets in which we sell our products limits our ability to accurately forecast quarterly and annual sales. Additionally, because many of our expenses are fixed in the short term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall of sales. We are currently expanding our staffing and increasing our expense levels in anticipation of future sales growth. If our sales do not increase as anticipated, significant losses could result due to our higher expense levels. Because we expect to experience continued lower sequential growth rates in future periods, investors should not rely on our historical growth rates when evaluating our business. From fiscal year 2003 to fiscal year 2005, we reported significant sequential quarterly growth in revenues; however, our revenues have been inconsistent and have generally grown at a slower sequential rate in the ten quarters ending with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 compared to the double digit sequential growth rate of the previous eleven quarters. This slower growth rate is due, among other things, to the larger base of revenue and market share we now enjoy, which makes continuation of double digit revenue growth on a sequential quarterly basis unlikely in the current market. Accordingly, investors should not rely on the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future performance. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may cause adverse unexpected revenue and expense fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices by regulators may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued its final standard on accounting for share-based payments, FASB Statement No. 123R (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (FAS 123R), which required us, starting January 29, 2006, to measure compensation costs for all stock-based compensation (including stock options) at fair value and to recognize these costs as expenses in our statements of operations. The recognition of these expenses in our statements of operations will reduce our earnings per share, which could negatively impact our future stock price. If we are unable to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner, our operating results and competitive position will be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability, in a timely and cost-effective manner, to develop and introduce new products and enhancements to our existing products. We must also achieve market acceptance for these products and enhancements. If we do not successfully develop and achieve market acceptance for new and enhanced products, our ability to maintain or increase revenues will suffer. The development of our products is highly complex. We occasionally have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and product enhancements, and we could experience 26 delays in the future. Even if new and enhanced products are introduced to the market, we may not be able to achieve market acceptance of them in a timely manner. In addition, our longstanding relationships with some of our larger customers may also deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain customers favorable prices on our products. If these prices are lower than the prices paid by our existing customers, we would have to offer the same lower prices to certain of our customers who have contractual “most favored nation” pricing arrangements. In that event, our average selling prices and gross margins would decline. The loss of a key customer, a reduction in sales to any key customer or our inability to attract new significant customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to appropriately scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products and services or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, our business could be materially and adversely affected. To achieve our business objectives, we anticipate that we will need to continue to expand. We have experienced rapid growth and expansion in the past. Through internal growth and acquisitions, we significantly increased the scope of our operations and expanded our workforce from 1,205 employees, as of January 31, 2003, to 5,249 employees, as of January 27, 2007. Nonetheless, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products and services or to the demand for new products requested by our customers. In that event, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. Conversely, if we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and such demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expected, the rate of increase in our operating expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, which would adversely affect our operating results. Our past growth has placed, and any future growth is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To implement our current business and product plans, we will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort. Although we have implemented an enterprise resource planning system to help us improve our planning and management processes and are implementing a new human resources management system, we anticipate that we will also need to continue to implement and improve a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, as well as additional procedures and other internal management systems. These processes can be time consuming and expensive, increase management responsibilities, and divert management attention. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, we may be unable to scale our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, or conversely, we may scale our business too quickly and the rate of increase in our expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, either of which would materially and adversely affect our current or future business. We rely on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our integrated circuit products, and the failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our growth. We do not have our own manufacturing or assembly facilities and have very limited in-house testing facilities. Therefore, we rely on third-party vendors to manufacture, assemble and test the products we design. We currently rely on several third-party foundries to produce substantially all of our integrated circuit products. We also currently rely on several third-party assembly and test subcontractors to assemble, package and test our products. The resurgence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, the 27 outbreak of avian flu and any similar future outbreaks in Asia, where these foundries are located, could affect the production capabilities of our manufacturers by resulting in quarantines or closures. In the event of such a quarantine or closure, if we were unable to quickly identify alternate manufacturing facilities, our revenues, cost of revenues and results of operations would be negatively impacted. If these vendors do not provide us with high-quality products and services in a timely manner, or if one or more of these vendors terminates its relationship with us, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacements to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis, our relationships with our customers could suffer, our sales could decrease and harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. With limited exceptions, our vendors are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. These vendors may allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products while reducing deliveries to us on short notice. In particular, some foundry customers may have long-term agreements with these foundries that may cause these foundries to reallocate capacity to those customers, decreasing the capacity available to us. If we need another integrated circuit foundry or assembly and test subcontractor because of increased demand, or we are unable to obtain timely and adequate deliveries from our providers at the required time, we might not be able to develop relationships with other vendors who are able to satisfy our requirements. Even if other integrated circuit foundries or assembly and test subcontractors are available at that time to satisfy our requirements, it would likely take several months to qualify a new provider. Such a change may also require the approval of our customers, which would take time to effect and could cause our customers to cancel orders or fail to place new orders. A number of our subsidiaries are incorporated under the laws of, and their principal offices are located in, the State of Israel and, therefore, their business operations may be harmed by adverse political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Each of Marvell Semiconductor Israel Ltd. (MSIL), Marvell T.I. Ltd. (MTIL), Marvell Software Solutions Israel Ltd. (MSSI) and Marvell DSPC Ltd. (DSPC) is incorporated under the laws of and has its principal offices in Israel. In addition, MSIL, MSSI and DSPC maintain their research and development operations in Israel. Thus, MSIL, MTIL, MSSI and DSPC are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Major hostilities involving or within Israel could disrupt MSIL, MTIL, MSSI and DSPC’s operations. For example, continued hostilities between Israel and the Palestinian authority in recent months have caused substantial political unrest, which could lead to a potential economic downturn in Israel. Additionally, the ongoing situation in Iraq could lead to more economic instability and uncertainty in the State of Israel and the Middle East. Also, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could negatively impact the business operations and financial results of each of MSIL, MTIL, MSSI and DSPC. We rely on third-party distributors and manufacturers’ representatives and the failure of these distributors and manufacturers’ representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future sales. We sell many of our products to customers through distributors and manufacturers’ representatives. Our relationships with some of our distributors and manufacturers’ representatives have been established within the last two years, and we are unable to predict the extent to which our distributors and manufacturers’ representatives will be successful in marketing and selling our products. Moreover, many of our manufacturers’ representatives and distributors also market and sell competing products. Our representatives and distributors may terminate their relationships with us at any time. Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional distributors or manufacturers’ representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. If we cannot retain our current distributors or 28 manufacturers’ representatives or recruit additional or replacement distributors or manufacturers’ representatives, our sales and operating results will be harmed. The loss of one or more of our distributors or manufacturers’ representatives could harm our sales and results of operations. We generally realize a higher gross margin on direct sales and from sales through manufacturers’ representatives than on sales through distributors. Accordingly, if our distributors were to account for an increased portion of our net sales, our gross margins may decline. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties, and if we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margin, or, conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potentially in loss of market share and damaged customer relationships. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Customers can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. In the recent past, some of our customers have developed excess inventories of their own products and have, as a consequence, deferred purchase orders for our products. We cannot accurately predict what or how many products our customers will need in the future. Anticipating demand is difficult because our customers face volatile pricing and unpredictable demand for their own products and are increasingly focused more on cash preservation and tighter inventory management. In addition, as an increasing number of our chips are being incorporated into consumer products, we anticipate greater fluctuations in demand for our products, which makes it more difficult to forecast customer demand. We place orders with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. If we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect to, if at all. As a result, we would hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would forgo revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, any future significant cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products could materially and adversely affect our profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. Furthermore, we generally recognize revenue upon shipment of products to a customer. If a customer refuses to accept shipped products or does not timely pay for these products, we could incur significant charges against our income. The international nature of our business exposes us to financial and regulatory risks that may adversely impact our revenues and profitability. International operations are subject to a number of risks that may limit our ability to design, develop, test or market certain technologies and products, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, including: · international terrorism and anti-American sentiment, particularly in the emerging markets; · security concerns, including crime, political instability, armed conflict and civil or military unrest; · local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices in the United States; · regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; · laws and business practices favoring local companies; · differing employment practices and labor issues; 29 · withholding tax obligations on revenues that we may not be able to offset fully against our U.S. tax obligations, including the further risk that foreign tax authorities may increase tax rates, which could result in increased tax withholdings and penalties; · less effective protection of intellectual property than is afforded to us in the United States or other developed countries; and · limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities or telecommunications providers and natural disasters. These conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic recovery, worldwide, or in our served markets. If the worldwide economy or our served markets in which we operate were to experience any of the conditions above, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are a mid-sized company with limited resources compared to some of our current and potential competitors, and we may not be able to compete effectively and increase or maintain revenue and market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or potential competitors. If we do not compete successfully, our market share and revenues may not increase or may decline. In addition, some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources and name recognition, and a larger base of customers than we do. As a result, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing and potential customers. Moreover, our competitors may foresee the course of market developments more accurately than we do. They also may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do, which would allow them to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. In addition, new competitors or alliances among existing competitors could emerge. We expect to face competition in the future from our current competitors, other manufacturers and designers of integrated circuits, and innovative start-up integrated circuit design companies. Many of our customers are also large, established integrated circuit suppliers. Our sales to and support of such customers may enable them to become a source of competition to us, despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights. Our future success depends in significant part on strategic relationships with customers. If we cannot maintain these relationships or if these customers develop their own solutions or adopt a competitor’s solutions instead of buying our products, our operating results would be adversely affected. In the past, we have relied in significant part on our strategic relationships with customers that are technology leaders in our target markets. We intend to pursue and continue to form these strategic relationships in the future but we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. These relationships often require us to develop new products that may involve significant technological challenges. Our customers frequently place considerable pressure on us to meet their tight development schedules. Accordingly, we may have to devote a substantial amount of our limited resources to our strategic relationships, which could detract from or delay our completion of other important development projects. Delays in the development could impair our relationships with our strategic customers and negatively impact sales of the products under development. Moreover, it is possible that our customers may develop their own solutions or adopt a competitor’s solution for products that they currently buy from us. If that happens, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. 30 If our foundries do not achieve satisfactory yields or quality, our relationships with our customers and our reputation will be harmed. The fabrication of integrated circuits is a complex and technically demanding process. Our foundries have from time to time experienced manufacturing defects and reduced manufacturing yields. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by our foundries could result in lower than anticipated manufacturing yields or unacceptable performance. Many of these problems are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct. Poor yields from our foundries, or defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, harm our financial results and result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. In addition, defects in our existing or new products could result in significant warranty, support and repair costs, and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts. When demand for foundry capacity is high, we may take various actions to try to secure sufficient capacity, which may be costly and harm our operating results. Availability of foundry capacity has in the recent past been constrained due to strong demand. The ability of each foundry to provide us with semiconductor devices is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations. Although we have entered into contractual commitments to supply specified levels of products to some of our customers, we may not have sufficient levels of production capacity with all of our foundries, despite signing a long-term guaranteed production capacity agreement with one of our foundries. Despite this agreement, foundry capacity may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. We place our orders on the basis of our customers’ purchase orders or our forecast of customer demand, and the foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and better financed than we are or that have long-term agreements with our main foundries, may induce our foundries to reallocate capacity to those customers. This reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of components that we need. Although we use several independent foundries to manufacture substantially all of our semiconductor products, most of our components are not manufactured at more than one foundry at any given time, and our products typically are designed to be manufactured in a specific process at only one of these foundries. Accordingly, if one of our foundries is unable to provide us with components as needed, we could experience significant delays in securing sufficient supplies of those components. We cannot assure you that any of our existing or new foundries will be able to produce integrated circuits with acceptable manufacturing yields, or that our foundries will be able to deliver enough semiconductor devices to us on a timely basis, or at reasonable prices. These and other related factors could impair our ability to meet our customers’ needs and have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. In order to secure sufficient foundry capacity when demand is high and mitigate the risks described in the foregoing paragraph, we may enter into various arrangements with suppliers that could be costly and harm our operating results, such as nonrefundable deposits with or loans to foundries in exchange for capacity commitments, and contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of integrated circuits over extended periods. We may not be able to make any such arrangement in a timely fashion or at all, and any arrangements may be costly, reduce our financial flexibility, and not be on terms favorable to us. For example, amounts payable under our foundry capacity are non-refundable regardless of whether we are able to utilize all of any of the guaranteed wafer capacity under the terms of the agreement. Moreover, if we are able to secure 31 foundry capacity, we may be obligated to use all of that capacity or incur penalties. These penalties may be expensive and could harm our financial results. The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or expenses or undetected defects or bugs, which could adversely affect the market acceptance of new products, damage our reputation with current or prospective customers, and materially and adversely affect our operating costs. Highly complex products, such as the products that we offer, frequently contain defects and bugs when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, these defects and bugs. Historically, we have been able to design workarounds to fix these defects and bugs with minimal to no disruption to our business or our customers’ business. If any of our products contain defects or bugs, or have reliability, quality, or compatibility problems, we may not be able to successfully design workarounds. Consequently, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers, and our financial results. In addition, these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales to our customers. To resolve these problems, we may have to invest significant capital and other resources. Although our products are tested by our suppliers, our customers and ourselves, it is possible that our new products will contain defects or bugs. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new product, we may be required to incur additional development costs and product recall, repair or replacement costs. These problems may also result in claims against us by our customers or others. In addition, these problems may divert our technical and other resources from other development efforts. Moreover, we would likely lose, or experience a delay in, market acceptance of the affected product or products, and we could lose credibility with our current and prospective customers. As a result, our financial results could be materially harmed. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that the foundries that we use will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If any of our foundry subcontractors or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short-term adverse impact on our operating results, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip. 32 We have a large amount of debt and our debt service obligations may prevent us from taking actions that we would otherwise consider to be in our best interests. As of January 27, 2007, the aggregate principal amount of our total consolidated debt was $398.8 million. Covenants in the agreements governing our existing debt, and debt we may incur in the future, may materially restrict our operations, including our ability to incur debt, pay dividends, make certain investments and payments, make acquisitions, and encumber or dispose of assets. In addition, financial covenants contained in agreements relating to our existing and future debt could lead to a default in the event our results of operations do not meet our plans and we are unable to amend those financial covenants. A default and acceleration under one debt instrument may also trigger cross-acceleration under our other debt instruments. An event of default under any debt instrument, if not cured or waived, could result in the lenders requiring us to repay the debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the level of our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences for our future operations, including: · increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital and research and development expenditures, and general corporate purposes; · requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow or our existing cash to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash available for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and research and development expenditures; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; or · placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. We are subject to the risks of owning real property. Our U.S. headquarters located in Santa Clara, CA, land in Singapore, building in Malaysia, building in Switzerland and buildings in Shanghai, China subject us to the risks of owning real property, including: · the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems; · adverse changes in the value of these properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the neighborhood in which the property is located, or other factors; · the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic and other legal or regulatory requirements; · the potential disruption of our business and operations arising from or connected with a relocation due to moving to or renovating the facility; · increased cash commitments for improvements to the buildings or the property or both; · increased operating expenses for the buildings or the property or both; · possible disputes with tenants or other third parties related to the buildings or the property or both; and 33 · the risk of financial loss in excess of amounts covered by insurance, or uninsured risks, such as the loss caused by damage to the buildings as a result of an earthquake. We depend on key personnel with whom we do not have employment agreements to manage our business, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel and hire additional personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering and sales and marketing personnel. The loss of any key employees or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineers and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of and harm our ability to sell our products. We do not have employment contracts with our key personnel, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. There is currently a shortage of qualified technical personnel with significant experience in the design, development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of integrated circuits. In particular, there is a shortage of engineers who are familiar with the intricacies of the design and manufacture of products based on analog technology, and competition for these engineers is intense. Our key technical personnel represent a significant asset and serve as the source of our technological and product innovations. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of technical personnel to support our anticipated growth. Our officers and directors own a large percentage of our voting stock, and two of them, together with another employee, are also significant shareholders and are related by blood or marriage. These factors may allow the officers and directors as a group or the three related employees to greatly influence the election of directors and the approval or disapproval of significant corporate actions. As of March 31, 2007, our executive officers and directors beneficially owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, approximately 20% of the outstanding shares our common stock. Additionally, Dr. Sehat Sutardja, our Chief Executive Officer, and Weili Dai, who now serves as our Director of Strategic Marketing and Business Development, are husband and wife and Dr. Sehat Sutardja and Dr. Pantas Sutardja are brothers. Together, these three individuals held approximately 20% of our outstanding common stock as of March 31, 2007. As a result, if the directors and officers as a group or any of Dr. Sehat Sutardja, Weili Dai and Dr. Pantas Sutardja act together, they will significantly influence the election of our directors and the approval or disapproval of our significant corporate actions. This influence over our affairs might be adverse to the interests of other shareholders. For instance, the voting power of these officers, directors and others could have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of our company on terms that other shareholders may desire. Furthermore, we have a classified board, which could also further delay or prevent an acquisition, under certain circumstances. Under Bermuda law all of our officers, in exercising their powers and discharging their duties, must act honestly and in good faith with a view to our best interests and exercise the care, diligence and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. Majority shareholders do not owe fiduciary duties to minority shareholders. As a result, the minority shareholders will not have a direct claim against the majority shareholders in the event the majority shareholders take actions that damage the interests of minority shareholders. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of Bermuda, except that Bermuda courts would be expected to follow English case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to bring an action in our name if the directors or officers are alleged to be acting beyond our corporate power, committing illegal acts or violating our Memorandum of Association or Bye-laws. In addition, minority shareholders would be able to challenge a corporate action that allegedly constituted a fraud against them or required the approval of a greater 34 percentage of our shareholders than actually approved it. The winning party in such an action generally would be able to recover a portion of attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with the action. We face foreign business, political and economic risks, which may harm our results of operations, because a majority of our products and our customers’ products are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. A substantial portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States and, as a result, we are subject to foreign business, political and economic risks. All of our products are manufactured outside of the United States. Our current qualified integrated circuit foundries are located in the same region within Taiwan, and our primary assembly and test subcontractors are located in the Pacific Rim region. In addition, many of our customers are located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, which further exposes us to foreign risks. Sales to customers located in Asia represented approximately 89% of our net revenue in fiscal 2007, 94% of our net revenue in fiscal 2006, and 93% of our net revenue in fiscal 2005. We anticipate that our manufacturing, assembly, testing and sales outside of the United States will continue to account for a substantial portion of our operations and revenue in future periods. Accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with international operations, including: · difficulties in obtaining domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; · compliance with foreign laws; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; · trade restrictions or higher tariffs; · transportation delays; · difficulties of managing distributors, especially because we expect to continue to increase our sales through international distributors; · political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, other hostilities and political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; and · inadequate local infrastructure. Because substantially all of our sales to date have been denominated in United States dollars, increases in the value of the United States dollar will increase the price of our products so that they become relatively more expensive to customers in the local currency of a particular country, potentially leading to a reduction in sales and profitability for us in that country. A portion of our international revenue may be denominated in foreign currencies in the future, which will subject us to risks associated with fluctuations in exchange rates for those foreign currencies. Our third-party foundries and subcontractors are concentrated in Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pan-Pacific region, an area subject to significant earthquake risks. Any disruption to the operations of these foundries and subcontractors resulting from earthquakes or other natural disasters could cause significant delays in the production or shipment of our products. Substantially all of our products are manufactured by third-party foundries located in Taiwan. Currently our only alternative manufacturing sources are located in Taiwan, China and Singapore. In addition, substantially all of our assembly and testing facilities are located in Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia and the Philippines. The risk of an earthquake in Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim region is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines to the facilities of our foundries and assembly and test subcontractors. In September 1999, a major earthquake in Taiwan affected the facilities of several of these third-party contractors. As a consequence of this earthquake, these contractors suffered power outages and disruptions that impaired their production capacity. Major earthquakes also occurred 35 in Taiwan in 2002 and 2003. Although our foundries and subcontractors did not suffer any significant damage as a result of these most recent earthquakes, the occurrence of additional earthquakes or other natural disasters could result in the disruption of our foundry or assembly and test capacity. Any disruption resulting from such events could cause significant delays in the production or shipment of our products until we are able to shift our manufacturing, assembling or testing from the affected contractor to another third-party vendor. We may not be able to obtain alternate capacity on favorable terms, if at all. The average selling prices of products in our markets have historically decreased rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenues and gross profits. The products we develop and sell are used for high volume applications. As a result, the prices of those products have historically decreased rapidly. Our gross profits and financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing our costs, or developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross profits. We expect that our gross profits on our products are likely to decrease over the next fiscal year below levels we have historically experienced due to pricing pressures from our customers, an increase in sales of storage SOCs, which typically have lower margins than standalone read channel devices, and an increase in sales of wireless and other products into consumer application markets, which are highly competitive and cost sensitive. Additionally, because we do not operate our own manufacturing, assembly or testing facilities, we may not be able to reduce our costs as rapidly as companies that operate their own facilities, and our costs may even increase, which could also reduce our margins. In the past, we have reduced the average selling prices of our products in anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and other factors. We expect that we will have to do so again in the future. We have a lengthy and expensive product sales cycle that does not assure product sales, and that if unsuccessful, may harm our operating results. The sales cycle for many of our products is long and requires us to invest significant resources with each potential customer without any assurance of sales to that customer. Our sales cycle typically begins with an extended evaluation and test period, also known as qualification, during which our products undergo rigorous reliability testing by our customers. Qualification is typically followed by an extended development period by our customers and an additional three to six month period before a customer commences volume production of equipment incorporating our products. This lengthy sales cycle creates the risk that our customers will decide to cancel or change product plans for products incorporating our integrated circuits. During our sales cycle, our engineers assist customers in implementing our products into the customers’ products. We incur significant research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses as part of this process, and this process may never generate related revenues. We derive revenue from this process only if our design is selected. Once a customer selects a particular integrated circuit for use in its product, the customer generally uses solely that integrated circuit for a full generation of its product. Therefore, if we do not achieve a design win for a product, we will be unable to sell our integrated circuit to a customer until that customer develops a new product or a new generation of its product. Even if we achieve a design win with a customer, the customer may not ultimately ship products incorporating our products or may cancel orders after we have achieved a sale. In addition, we will have to begin the qualification process again when a customer develops a new generation of a product for which we were the successful supplier. Also, during the final production of a mature product, our customers typically exhaust their existing inventory of our integrated circuits. Consequently, orders for our products may decline in those circumstances, even if our products are incorporated into both our customers’ mature and replacement 36 products. A delay in a customer’s transition to commercial production of a replacement product may cause the customer to lose sales, which would delay our ability to recover the lost sales from the discontinued mature product. In addition, customers may defer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements from our competitors or us. We must keep pace with rapid technological change and evolving industry standards in the semiconductor industry to remain competitive. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards and our customers’ changing demands. We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometries. Our past sales and profitability have resulted, to a large extent, from our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products incorporating the new standards and technologies. Our ability to adapt to these changes and to anticipate future standards, and the rate of adoption and acceptance of those standards, will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and prospects for growth. If new industry standards emerge, our products or our customers’ products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards. In addition, our target markets continue to undergo rapid growth and consolidation. A significant slowdown in any of these markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success will also depend on the ability of our customers to develop new products and enhance existing products for the markets we serve and to introduce and promote those products successfully. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete. We believe one of our key competitive advantages results from our collection of proprietary technologies that we have developed since our inception. If we fail to protect these intellectual property rights, competitors could sell products based on technology that we have developed which could harm our competitive position and decrease our revenues. We believe that the protection of our intellectual property rights is and will continue to be important to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. We have been issued several United States patents and have a number of pending United States patent applications. However, a patent may not be issued as a result of any applications or, if issued, claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Despite our efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or proprietary technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and the steps that we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We may become involved with costly and lengthy litigation, which could subject us to liability, require us to stop selling our products or force us to redesign our products. Litigation involving patents and other intellectual property is widespread in the high-technology industry and is particularly prevalent in the integrated circuit industry, where a number of companies aggressively bring numerous infringement claims to protect their patent portfolios. From time to time we receive, and may continue to receive in the future, notices that claim we have infringed upon, 37 misappropriated or misused the proprietary rights of other parties. These claims could result in litigation, which, in turn, could subject us to significant liability for damages. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: · stop selling products or using technology that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property; · pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement that could adversely impact our liquidity or operating results; · attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and · attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property. In addition, many of our contracts with our customers require us to indemnify our customers against claims alleging infringement of the proprietary rights of other parties. Customers have requested us to indemnify them in connection with a patent infringement lawsuit by Australia’s Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO). We have also filed an action against CSIRO seeking a declaratory judgment that CSIRO’s patent is invalid and unenforceable and that we and our customers do not infringe the CSIRO patent. We are also party to other claims and litigation proceedings arising in the normal course of business. The impact on us as a result of such claims and litigation cannot currently be ascertained. Any litigation, regardless of the outcome, is time-consuming and expensive to resolve, may require us to pay significant monetary damages and can divert management time and attention. An unfavorable ruling in litigation could require us to pay damages or one-time license fees or royalty payments, which could adversely impact gross margins in future periods, or could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products or limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for us. There can be no assurance that these matters will be resolved in a manner that is not adverse to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are incorporated in Bermuda, and, as a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. We are organized under the laws of Bermuda. As a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders to effect service of process within the United States upon us, or to enforce against us in United States courts judgments based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. Most of our executive officers and directors are residents of the United States. However, there is significant doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state or hear actions brought in Bermuda against us or those persons based on those laws. The United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on United States federal or state securities laws, would not be automatically enforceable in Bermuda. Our Bye-laws contain a waiver of claims or rights of action by our shareholders against our officers and directors, which will severely limit our shareholders’ right to assert a claim against our officers and directors under Bermuda law. Our Bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers and directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the 38 performance of his or her duties with or for us, other than with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver will limit the rights of our shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act complained of involves actual fraud or dishonesty. Thus, so long as acts of business judgment do not involve actual fraud or dishonesty, they will not be subject to shareholder claims under Bermuda law. For example, shareholders will not have claims against officers and directors for a breach of trust, unless the breach rises to the level of actual fraud or dishonesty. Tax benefits we receive may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs. Under current Bermuda law, we are not subject to tax on our income and capital gains. We have obtained from the Minister of Finance of Bermuda under the Exempt Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, an undertaking that, in the event that Bermuda enacts any legislation imposing tax computed on income and capital gains, those taxes should not apply to us until March 28, 2016. However, it is possible that this exemption would not be extended beyond that date. The Economic Development Board of Singapore granted Pioneer Status to our wholly-owned subsidiary in Singapore in July 1999. Initially, this tax exemption was to expire after ten years, but the Economic Development Board in June 2006 agreed to extend the term to fifteen years. As a result, we anticipate that a significant portion of the income we earn in Singapore during this period will be exempt from the Singapore income tax. We are required to meet several requirements as to investment, headcount and activities in Singapore to retain this status. If our Pioneer Status is terminated early, our financial results could be harmed. As a result of the Pioneer Status, there was a tax savings of $7.4 million in fiscal 2007 in an earnings per share benefit of $0.01. The Israeli government has granted Approved Enterprise Status to two of our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Israel, which provides a tax holiday on undistributed income derived from operations within certain “development regions” in Israel. In order to maintain our qualification, we must continue to meet specified conditions, including the making of investments in fixed assets in Israel. As our tax holidays expire, we expect that we will start paying income tax on our operations within these development regions. In fiscal 2007, the Israeli subsidiaries were not profitable and did not have any benefit from the tax incentive. During fiscal 2007, our Switzerland subsidiary received from both Federal and Cantonal purposes a ten-year tax holiday on design and research centre and wafer supply trading activity revenues earned in Switzerland. Each jurisdiction has separate requirements that need to be met such as the ten-year business requirement and investment in head count, intellectual property, office equipment, software and other expense items. If the requirements are not met, there would be tax dollars to be paid which may affect our financial results. As a result of the Swiss holiday, our Switzerland subsidiary benefited from an income tax savings of $1.3 million, which did not have a significant earnings per share benefit. Class action litigation due to stock price volatility or other factors could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. On September 5, 2001, a putative class action was filed in the Southern District of New York relating to our initial public offering, or IPO. In this action, the plaintiffs named several defendants including Marvell and two of our officers, one of whom is also a director. This complaint relating to our IPO has been consolidated with hundreds of other lawsuits by plaintiffs against approximately 40 underwriters and approximately 300 issuers across the United States. Plaintiffs allege that defendants violated various provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In these actions, plaintiffs seek, among other items, unspecified damages, pre-judgment interest and reimbursement of attorneys’ and experts’ fees. A Consolidated Amended Class Action Complaint against Marvell and two of our officers 39 was filed on April 19, 2002. Subsequently, defendants in the consolidated proceedings moved to dismiss the actions. In February 2003, the trial court issued its ruling on the motions, granting the motions in part, and denying them in part. Thus, the cases may proceed against the underwriters and us as to alleged violations of section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933 and section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Claims against the individual officers have been voluntarily dismissed with prejudice by agreement with plaintiffs. On June 26, 2003, the plaintiffs announced that a settlement among plaintiffs, the issuer defendants and their directors and officers, and their insurers had been structured, a part of which the insurers for all issuer defendants would guarantee up to $1 billion to investors who are class members, depending upon plaintiffs’ success against non-settling parties. Our board of directors has approved the proposed settlement, which, if approved by the court would result in the plaintiffs’ dismissing the case against us and granting releases that extend to all of our officers and directors. The court issued an order preliminarily approving the settlement in August 2005 and held a public hearing on its fairness in April 2006. The court has not yet ruled following the public hearing. These claims and any resulting litigation could result in substantial costs and could divert the attention and resources of our management. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Companies in the integrated circuit industry and other technology industries are particularly vulnerable to this kind of litigation due to the high volatility of their stock prices. Accordingly, we may in the future be the target of securities litigation. Any securities litigation could result in substantial costs and could divert the attention and resources of our management. Our Bye-laws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in corporate control, even if the change in corporate control would benefit our shareholders. Our Bye-laws contain change in corporate control provisions, which include: · authorizing the issuance of preferred stock without shareholder approval; · providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; and · requiring a vote of two-thirds of the outstanding shares to approve any change of corporate control. These changes in corporate control provisions could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so would be a benefit to our shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 