Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties, as well as other information in this report and our SEC filings, before you invest in our common stock. Investing in our common stock involves risk. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The following risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or that we currently believe are immaterial could also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In any case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. See also the Forward-looking Statements discussion in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 17 Table of Contents Factors That May Affect Future Results Company Risks We had an accumulated deficit of $20 million as of December 31, 2007, have a history of losses, may experience losses in the future, and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Since 1997, we have incurred losses in all but the four most recent quarters. We need to generate significant ongoing revenue to maintain profitability. We anticipate that our expenses will increase in the foreseeable future as we: • continue to develop our technologies; • increase our sales and marketing efforts; • attempt to expand the market for touch-enabled technologies and products; • protect and enforce our intellectual property; • pursue strategic relationships; • acquire intellectual property or other assets from third-parties; and • invest in systems and processes to manage our business. If our revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, we may not achieve or maintain profitability. Microsoft Corporation (“Microsoft”) disputes our assessment that we are not obligated to make any payment under our agreement with them relating to the conclusion of our litigation with Sony Computer Entertainment. Defending our position may be expensive, disruptive, and time consuming, and regardless of whether we are successful, could adversely affect our business. In 2003, we executed a series of agreements with Microsoft as described in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements that provided for settlement of our lawsuit against Microsoft as well as various licensing, sublicensing, and equity and financing arrangements under the Microsoft agreements. In accordance with the sublicense agreement, in the event that we elected to settle the action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, entitled Immersion Corporation v. Sony Computer Entertainment of America, Inc., Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. and Microsoft Corporation, Case No. C02-00710 CW (WDB), as such action pertains to Sony Computer Entertainment, and grant certain rights, we would be obligated to pay Microsoft a minimum of $15.0 million for amounts up to $100.0 million received from Sony Computer Entertainment, plus 25% of amounts over $100.0 million up to $150.0 million, and 17.5% of amounts over $150.0 million. In March 2007, we announced the conclusion of our patent infringement litigation against Sony Computer Entertainment at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Sony Computer Entertainment satisfied the District Court judgment against it. As of March 19, 2007, we and Sony Computer Entertainment entered into a new business agreement. We have determined that we are not obligated under our agreements with Microsoft to make any payment to it relating to the conclusion of our litigation with Sony Computer Entertainment. However, in a letter sent to us dated May 1, 2007, Microsoft disputed our position and stated that it believes we owe Microsoft at least $27.5 million, which it increased to $35.6 million at a court ordered mediation meeting on December 11, 2007. Further, on June 18, 2007, Microsoft filed a complaint against us in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington alleging we are in breach of our contract with Microsoft, and that it is entitled to a share of the judgment monies and other sums we received from Sony Computer Entertainment. We dispute Microsoft’s allegations and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in the lawsuit. The results of any litigation are inherently uncertain, and there can be no assurance that our position will prevail. 18 Table of Contents Our current litigation undertakings are expensive, disruptive, and time consuming, and will continue to be, until resolved, and regardless of whether we are ultimately successful, could adversely affect our business. We are involved in litigation with Internet Services, LLC (ISLLC) involving claims for breach of contract and rescission against ISLLC in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. We are also involved in litigation against Microsoft, as noted above. We are involved in legal proceedings relating to a class action lawsuit filed on November 9, 2001, related to In re Initial Public Offering Securities Litigation. The named defendants are Immersion and three of our current or former officers or directors and certain underwriters of our November 12, 1999 IPO. Subsequently, two of the individual defendants stipulated to a dismissal without prejudice. We and most of the issuer defendants had settled with the plaintiffs. However, the settlement offer has subsequently been withdrawn. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we cannot accurately predict how these cases will ultimately be resolved. We anticipate that the litigation will continue to be costly, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful or able to recover the costs we incur in connection with the litigation. We expense litigation costs as incurred, and only accrue for costs that have been incurred but not paid to the vendor as of the financial statement date. Litigation has diverted, and is likely to continue to divert, the efforts and attention of some of our key management and personnel. As a result, until such time as it is resolved, litigation could adversely affect our business. Further, any unfavorable outcome could adversely affect our business. For additional background on litigation, please see Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements and the section titled Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” Litigation regarding intellectual property rights could be expensive, disruptive, and time consuming; could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property; and could adversely affect our business. Intellectual property litigation, whether brought by us or by others against us, has caused us to expend, and may cause us to expend in future periods, significant financial resources as well as divert management’s time and efforts. From time to time, we initiate claims against third parties that we believe infringe our intellectual property rights. We intend to enforce our intellectual property rights vigorously and may initiate litigation against parties that we believe are infringing our intellectual property rights if we are unable to resolve matters satisfactorily through negotiation. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming, and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. In addition, any litigation in which we are accused of infringement may cause product shipment delays, require us to develop non-infringing technologies, or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements even before the issue of infringement has been decided on the merits. If any litigation were not resolved in our favor, we could become subject to substantial damage claims from third parties and indemnification claims from our licensees. We could be enjoined from the continued use of the technologies at issue without a royalty or license agreement. Royalty or license agreements, if required, might not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If a third party claiming infringement against us prevailed, and we may not be able to develop non-infringing technologies or license the infringed or similar technologies on a timely and cost-effective basis, our expenses could increase and our revenues could decrease. We attempt to avoid infringing known proprietary rights of third parties. However, third parties may hold, or may in the future be issued, patents that could be infringed by our products or technologies. Any of these third parties might make a claim of infringement against us with respect to the products that we manufacture and the technologies that we license. From time to time, we have received letters from companies, several of which have significantly greater financial resources than we do, asserting that some of our technologies, or those of our licensees, infringe their intellectual property rights. Certain of our licensees may receive similar letters from these or other companies from time to time. Such letters or subsequent litigation may influence our licensees’ decisions whether to ship products incorporating our technologies. In addition, such letters may cause a dispute between our licensees and us over indemnification for the infringement claim. Any of these notices, or additional notices that we or our licensees could receive in the future from these or other companies, could lead to litigation against us, either regarding the infringement claim or the indemnification claim. 19 Table of Contents We have acquired patents from third parties and also license some technologies from third parties. We must rely upon the owners of the patents or the technologies for information on the origin and ownership of the acquired or licensed technologies. As a result, our exposure to infringement claims may increase. We generally obtain representations as to the origin and ownership of acquired or licensed technologies and indemnification to cover any breach of these representations. However, representations may not be accurate and indemnification may not provide adequate compensation for breach of the representations. Intellectual property claims against our licensees, or us, whether or not they have merit, could be time-consuming to defend, cause product shipment delays, require us to pay damages, harm existing license arrangements, or require us or our licensees to cease utilizing the technologies unless we can enter into licensing agreements. Licensing agreements might not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Furthermore, claims by third parties against our licensees could also result in claims by our licensees against us for indemnification. The legal principles applicable to patents and patent licenses continue to change and evolve. Legislation and judicial decisions that make it easier for patent licensees to challenge the validity, enforceability, or infringement of patents, or make it more difficult for patent licensors to obtain a permanent injunction, obtain enhanced damages for willful infringement, or to obtain or enforce patents, may adversely affect our business and the value of our patent portfolio. Furthermore, our prospects for future revenue growth through our royalty and licensing based businesses could be diminished. We are subject to the risk of additional litigation in connection with the restatement of our consolidated financial statements and the potential liability from any such litigation could materially and adversely affect our business. We have announced that we will be restating our consolidated financial statements for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2007, June 30, 2007, and September 30, 2007. This restatement is reflected in the presentation of quarterly financial information contained in this report. We plan to restate the 2007 first, second, and third quarter condensed consolidated financial statements prospectively when we file our 2008 first, second, and third quarter condensed consolidated financial statements on Form 10-Q. As a result of the restatement of our consolidated financial statements, we could become subject to purported class action, derivative, or other securities litigation. As of the date hereof, we are not aware of any such litigation having been commenced against us related to these matters, but we cannot predict whether any such litigation will be commenced or, if it is, the outcome of any such litigation. The initiation of any such securities litigation may harm our business and financial condition. The terms in our agreements may be construed by our licensees in a manner that is inconsistent with the rights that we have granted to other licensees, or in a manner that may require us to incur substantial costs to resolve conflicts over license terms. We have entered into, and we expect to continue to enter into, agreements pursuant to which our licensees are granted rights under our technology and intellectual property. These rights may be granted in certain fields of use, or with respect to certain market sectors or product categories, and may include exclusive rights or sublicensing rights. We refer to the license terms and restrictions in our agreements, including, but not limited to, field of use definitions, market sector, and product category definitions, collectively as “License Provisions.” Due to the continuing evolution of market sectors, product categories, and licensee business models, and to the compromises inherent in the drafting and negotiation of License Provisions, our licensees may, at some time during the term of their agreements with us, interpret License Provisions in their agreements in a way that is different from our interpretation of such License Provisions, or in a way that is in conflict with the rights that we have granted to other licensees. Such interpretations by our licensees may lead to claims that we have granted rights to one licensee which are inconsistent with the rights that we have granted to another licensee. In addition, after we enter into an agreement, it is possible that markets and/or products, or legal and/or regulatory environments, will evolve in a manner that we did not foresee or was not foreseeable at the time we entered into the agreement. As a result, in any agreement, we may have granted rights that will preclude or restrict our exploitation of new opportunities that arise after the execution of the agreement. 20 Table of Contents Product liability claims could be time-consuming and costly to defend and could expose us to loss. Our products or our licensees’ products may have flaws or other defects that may lead to personal or other injury claims. If products that we or our licensees sell cause personal injury, property injury, financial loss, or other injury to our or our licensees’ customers, the customers or our licensees may seek damages or other recovery from us. Any claims against us would be time-consuming, expensive to defend, and distracting to management, and could result in damages and injure our reputation, the reputation of our technology and services, and/or the reputation of our products, or the reputation of our licensees or their products. This damage could limit the market for our and our licensees’ products and harm our results of operations. In the past, manufacturers of peripheral products including certain gaming products such as joysticks, wheels, or gamepads, have been subject to claims alleging that use of their products has caused or contributed to various types of repetitive stress injuries, including carpal tunnel syndrome. We have not experienced any product liability claims to date. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could limit or invalidate the provisions. If our facilities were to experience catastrophic loss, our operations would be seriously harmed. Our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss such as fire, flood, earthquake, power outage, or terrorist activity. A substantial portion of our research and development activities, manufacturing, our corporate headquarters, and other critical business operations are located near major earthquake faults in San Jose, California, an area with a history of seismic events. An earthquake at or near our facilities could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments of our products or technologies, and result in large expenses to repair and replace the facility. While we believe that we maintain insurance sufficient to cover most long-term potential losses at our facilities, our existing insurance may not be adequate for all possible losses. In addition, California has experienced problems with its power supply in recent years. As a result, we have experienced utility cost increases and may experience unexpected interruptions in our power supply that could have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations, and financial condition. Industry and Technology Risks We have little or no control or influence on our licensees’ design, manufacturing, promotion, distribution, or pricing of their products incorporating our touch-enabling technologies, upon which we generate royalty revenue. A key part of our business strategy is to license our intellectual property to companies that manufacture and sell products incorporating our touch-enabling technologies. Sales of those products generate royalty and license revenue for us. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, 34%, 26% and 37%, respectively, of our total revenues were royalty and license revenues. However, we do not control or influence the design, manufacture, quality control, promotion, distribution, or pricing of products that are manufactured and sold by our licensees, nor can we control consolidation within an industry which could either reduce the number of licensing products available or reduce royalty rates for the combined licensees. In addition, we generally do not have commitments from our licensees that they will continue to use our technologies in current or future products. As a result, products incorporating our technologies may not be brought to market, meet quality control standards, achieve commercial acceptance, or generate meaningful royalty revenue for us. For us to generate royalty revenue, licensees that pay us per-unit royalties must manufacture and distribute products incorporating our touch-enabling technologies in a timely fashion and generate consumer demand through marketing and other promotional activities. Products incorporating our touch-enabling technologies are generally more difficult to design and manufacture, which may cause product introduction delays or quality control problems. If our licensees fail to stimulate and capitalize upon market demand for products that generate royalties for us, or if products are recalled because of quality control problems, our revenues will not grow and could decline. Alternatively, if a product that incorporates our touch- enabling technologies achieves widespread market acceptance, the product manufacturer may elect to stop paying 21 Table of Contents us, attempt to design around our intellectual property, challenge our intellectual property, or stop making it rather than pay us royalties based on sales of the product. Peak demand for products that incorporate our technologies, especially in the video console gaming and computer gaming peripherals market, typically occurs in the fourth calendar quarter as a result of increased demand during the year-end holiday season. If our licensees do not ship products incorporating our touch-enabling technologies in a timely fashion or fail to achieve strong sales in the fourth quarter of the calendar year, we may not receive related royalty and license revenue. A significant portion of our gaming royalty revenues come from third-party peripheral makers who make licensed gaming products designed for use with popular video game console systems from Microsoft, Sony, and Nintendo. Video game console systems are closed, proprietary systems, and video game console system makers typically impose certain requirements or restrictions on third-party peripheral makers who wish to make peripherals that will be compatible with a particular video game console system. These requirements and restrictions could be in the form of hardware technical specifications, software technical specifications, security specifications or other security mechanisms, component vendor specifications, licensing fees and/or terms and conditions, or other forms. If third-party peripheral makers cannot or are not allowed to obtain or satisfy these requirements or restrictions, our gaming royalty revenues could be significantly reduced. Furthermore, should a significant video game console maker choose to omit touch-enabling capabilities from its console system or somehow restrict or impede the ability of third parties to make touch-enabling peripherals, it may very well lead our gaming licensees to stop making products with touch-enabling capabilities, thereby significantly reducing our gaming royalty revenues. Under the terms of our agreement with Sony, Sony receives a royalty-free license to our worldwide portfolio of patents. This license permits Sony to make, use, and sell hardware, software, and services covered by our patents in its PS1, PS2, and PS3 systems for a fixed license payment. The PS3 console system was launched in late 2006 in the United States and Japan without force feedback capability. Sony has since released an update to the PS3 that offers limited vibration and force feedback support for some older PS1 and PS2 games and PS1 and PS2 rumble and force feedback controllers only. Sony also announced in September 2007 that it will fully restore the same vibration feedback features for the PS3 console system, PS3 games, and a new PS3 controller that were standard in the PS2 console system, PS2 games, and PS2 controllers. The new PS3 controllers with vibration feedback were released in Japan in November 2007 and are expected to be released in Europe and the United States in the spring of 2008. We do not know to what extent Sony will allow third-party peripheral makers to make licensed PS3 gaming products with vibration feedback to interface with the PS3 console. To the extent Sony does not license market-leading third-party controller makers to make PS3 controllers with vibration feedback, our licensing revenue from third-party PS3 peripherals will continue to be severely limited. Sony continues to sell the PS2, and our third party licensees continue to sell licensed PS2 peripherals. However, sales of PS2 peripherals continue to decline as more consumers switch to the PS3 console system and other next-generation console systems like the Nintendo Wii and Microsoft Xbox 360. Both the Microsoft Xbox 360 and Nintendo Wii include touch-enabling capabilities. For the Microsoft Xbox 360 video console system launched in November 2005, Microsoft has, to date, not yet broadly licensed third parties to produce peripherals for its Xbox 360 game console. To the extent Microsoft does not fully license third parties, Microsoft’s share of all aftermarket Xbox 360 game controller sales will likely remain high or increase, which we expect will limit our gaming royalty revenue. Additionally, Microsoft is now making touch-enabled steering wheel products covered by their royalty-free, perpetual, irrevocable license to our worldwide portfolio of patents that could compete with our licensees’ current products for which we earn per unit royalties. Because we have a fixed payment license with Microsoft, our royalty revenue from licensing in the gaming market and other consumer markets has declined and may further do so if Microsoft increases its volume of sales of touch-enabled gaming products and consumer products at the expense of our other licensees. Under the terms of our present agreement with Microsoft, Microsoft receives a royalty-free, perpetual, irrevocable license to our worldwide portfolio of patents. This license permits Microsoft to make, use, and sell hardware, software, and services, excluding specified products, covered by our patents. We will not receive any further revenues or royalties from Microsoft under our current agreement with Microsoft. Microsoft has a significant share of the market for touch-enabled console gaming computer peripherals and is pursuing other 22 Table of Contents consumer markets such as mobile phones, PDAs, and portable music players. Microsoft has significantly greater financial, sales, and marketing resources, as well as greater name recognition and a larger customer base than some of our other licensees. In the event that Microsoft increases its share of these markets, our royalty revenue from other licensees in these market segments might decline. We generate revenues from touch-enabling components that are sold and incorporated into third-party products. We have little or no control or influence over the design, manufacture, promotion, distribution, or pricing of those third-party products. Part of our business strategy is to sell components that provide touch feedback capability in products that other companies design, manufacture, and sell. Sales of these components generate product revenue. However, we do not control or influence the design, manufacture, quality control, promotion, distribution, or pricing of products that are manufactured and sold by those customers that buy these components. In addition, we generally do not have commitments from customers that they will continue to use our components in current or future products. As a result, products incorporating our components may not be brought to market, meet quality control standards, or achieve commercial acceptance. If the customers fail to stimulate and capitalize upon market demand for their products that include our components, or if products are recalled because of quality control problems, our revenues will not grow and could decline. Laerdal Medical Corporation (“Laerdal”) accounts for a significant portion of our revenues and a reduction in sales to Laerdal may reduce our total revenue. Laerdal accounts for a significant portion of our revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, 11%, 7%, and 0%, respectively, of our total revenues were derived from Laerdal. If our product sales to Laerdal decline, then our total revenue may decline. Medtronic accounts for a significant portion of our revenues and a reduction in sales to Medtronic, or a reduction in development work for Medtronic, may reduce our total revenue. Medtronic accounts for a significant portion of our revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, 11%, 18%, and 11%, respectively, of our total revenues were derived from Medtronic. If our product sales to Medtronic decline, and/or Medtronic reduces the development activities we perform, then our total revenue may decline. Touch interface product royalties will be reduced if BMW were to abandon its iDrive system or remove our technology from the iDrive. Our largest royalty stream from touch interface products is currently from BMW for its iDrive controller. Press reviews of this system have been largely negative and critical of the system’s complex user interface, which we did not design. Nevertheless, this negative press may cause BMW to abandon the iDrive controller or to redesign it and/or remove our technology from it at any time. If our technology is not incorporated in BMW vehicles our business may suffer. We depend on third-party suppliers, and our revenue and/or results of operations could suffer if we fail to manage supplier issues properly. Our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components and products for a wide variety of systems, products, and services, and on our suppliers’ ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products, and services at reasonable prices in time for us to meet critical schedules. We may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain supplies as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, disputes with suppliers, political instability, other problems experienced by suppliers, or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. If shortages or delays persist, the price of these supplies may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues, or the supplies may not be available at all. We may not be able to secure enough supplies at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities or according to the specifications needed. We could lose time-sensitive sales, incur 23 Table of Contents additional freight costs, or be unable to pass on price increases to our customers. If we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some products or service offerings, resulting in further costs and delays. We purchase certain products from a limited source in China. If the supply of these products is delayed or constrained, or is of insufficient quality, our ability to ship these products could be delayed, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. Additionally, our use of single source suppliers for certain components could exacerbate our supplier issues. We obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality, or other considerations. In addition, new products that we introduce may use custom components obtained from only one source initially, until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. The performance of such single source suppliers may affect the quality, quantity, and price of supplies to us. Accordingly, our revenue and/or results of operations could be adversely impacted by such events. Compliance with new directives that restrict the use of certain materials may increase our costs and limit our revenue opportunities. On July 1, 2006, the European Union’s RoHS Directive became effective. This Directive eliminates most uses of lead, cadmium, hexavalent-chromium, mercury, and certain fire retardants in electronics placed on the market after the effective date. Since the introduction of the European Union’s RoHS Directive, other regions of the world have announced or implemented similar regulations. In order to sell products into regions that adopt these or similar regulations, we have to assess each product and determine whether they comply with the requirements of the regulations or whether they are exempt from meeting the requirements of the regulations. If we determine that a product is not exempt and does not comply with adopted regulations, we will have to make changes to the product or its documentation if we want to sell that product into the region once the regulations become effective. Making such changes may be costly to perform and may have a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the national enforcement bodies of the regions adopting such regulations will agree with our assessment that certain of our products and documentation comply with or are exempt from the regulations. If products are determined not to be compliant or exempt, we will not be able to ship them in the region that adopts such regulations until such time that they are compliant, and this may have a negative impact on our revenue and results of operations. In addition, our products or packaging may not meet all safety, electrical, labeling, marking, or other requirements of all countries into which we ship products or our resellers sell our products. We attempt to comply with all known laws and regulations governing product sales into the countries we ship products. However, if products are determined not to be compliant or exempt, we will not be able to ship them in the region that has such regulations until such time that they are compliant, and this may have a negative impact on our revenue and results of operations. There is also the possibility of fines and legal costs as well as costs associated with a product recall if products or packaging are found not to meet the requirements. Because personal computer peripheral products that incorporate our touch-enabling technologies currently must work with Microsoft’s operating system software, our costs could increase and our revenues could decline if Microsoft modifies its operating system software. Our hardware and software technologies for personal computer peripheral products that incorporate our touch-enabling technologies are currently compatible with Microsoft’s Windows 2000, Windows Me, and Windows XP operating systems, including DirectX, Microsoft’s entertainment API. Modifications and new versions of Microsoft’s operating system and APIs (including DirectX and Windows Vista launched in early 2007) may require that we and/or our licensees modify the touch-enabling technologies to be compatible with Microsoft’s modifications or new versions, and this could cause delays in the release of products by our licensees. If Microsoft modifies its software products in ways that limit the use of our other licensees’ products, our costs could increase and our revenues could decline. 24 Table of Contents Reduced spending by corporate or university research and development departments may adversely affect sales of our three-dimensional products. Any economic downturn could lead to a reduction in corporate or university budgets for research and development in sectors, including the automotive and aerospace sectors, which use our three-dimensional and professional products. Sales of our three-dimensional and professional products, including our CyberGlove line of whole-hand sensing products and our MicroScribe line of digitizers, could be adversely affected by cuts in corporate research and development budgets. Competition between our products and our licensees’ products may reduce our revenue. Rapid technological change, short product life cycles, cyclical market patterns, declining average selling prices, and increasing foreign and domestic competition characterize the markets in which we and our licensees compete. We believe that competition in these markets will continue to be intense and that competitive pressures will drive the price of our products and our licensees’ products downward. These price reductions, if not offset by increases in unit sales or productivity, will cause our revenues to decline. We face competition from unlicensed products as well. Our licensees or other third parties may seek to develop products using our intellectual property or develop alternative designs that attempt to circumvent our intellectual property or that they believe do not require a license under our intellectual property. These potential competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we do, and the costs associated with asserting our intellectual property rights against such products and such potential competitors could be significant. Moreover, if such alternative designs were determined by a court not to require a license under our intellectual property rights, competition from such unlicensed products could limit or reduce our revenues. The market for certain touch-enabling technologies and touch-enabled products is at an early stage and if market demand does not develop, we may not achieve or sustain revenue growth. The market for certain of our touch-enabling technologies and certain of our licensees’ touch-enabled products is at an early stage. If we and our licensees are unable to develop demand for touch-enabling technologies and touch-enabled products, we may not achieve or sustain revenue growth. We cannot accurately predict the growth of the markets for these technologies and products, the timing of product introductions, or the timing of commercial acceptance of these products. Even if our touch-enabling technologies and our licensees’ touch-enabled products are ultimately widely adopted, widespread adoption may take a long time to occur. The timing and amount of royalties and product sales that we receive will depend on whether the products marketed achieve widespread adoption and, if so, how rapidly that adoption occurs. We expect that we will need to pursue extensive and expensive marketing and sales efforts to educate prospective licensees, component customers, and end users about the uses and benefits of our technologies and to persuade software developers to create software that utilizes our technologies. Negative product reviews or publicity about our products, our licensees’ products, haptic features, or haptic technology in general could have a negative impact on market adoption, our revenue, and/or our ability to license our technologies in the future. If we fail to increase sales of our medical simulation devices, our financial condition and operations may suffer. Many medical institutions do not budget for simulation devices. To increase sales of our simulation devices, we must, in addition to convincing medical institution personnel of the usefulness of the devices, persuade them to include a significant expenditure for the devices in their budgets. If these medical institutions are unwilling to budget for simulation devices or reduce their budgets as a result of cost-containment pressures or other factors, we may not be able to increase or maintain sales of medical simulators at a satisfactory rate. A decrease in sales or any failure to increase sales of our medical simulation products will harm our business. 25 Table of Contents If we are unable to enter into new licensing arrangements with our existing licensees, and with additional third-party manufacturers for our touch-enabling technologies, our royalty revenue may not grow. Our revenue growth is significantly dependent on our ability to enter into new licensing arrangements. Our failure to enter into new or renewal of licensing arrangements will cause our operating results to suffer. We face numerous risks in obtaining new licenses on terms consistent with our business objectives and in maintaining, expanding, and supporting our relationships with our current licensees. These risks include: • the lengthy and expensive process of building a relationship with potential licensees; • the competition we may face with the internal design teams of existing and potential licensees; • difficulties in persuading product manufacturers to work with us, to rely on us for critical technology, and to disclose to us proprietary product development and other strategies; • difficulties with persuading potential licensees who may have developed their own intellectual property or licensed intellectual property from other parties in areas related to ours to license our technology versus continuing to develop their own or license from other parties; • challenges in demonstrating the compelling value of our technologies in new applications like mobile phones, portable devices, and touchscreens; • difficulties in persuading existing and potential licensees to bear the development costs and risks necessary to incorporate our technologies into their products; • difficulties in obtaining new automotive licensees for yet-to-be commercialized technology because their suppliers may not be ready to meet stringent quality and parts availability requirements; • inability to sign new gaming licenses if the video console makers choose not to license third parties to make peripherals for their new consoles; and • reluctance of content developers, mobile phone manufacturers, and service providers to sign license agreements without a critical mass of other such inter-dependent supporters of the mobile phone industry also having a license, or without enough phones in the market that incorporate our technologies. If we fail to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, our ability to license our technologies and generate revenues would be impaired. Our business depends on generating revenues by licensing our intellectual property rights and by selling products that incorporate our technologies. We rely on our significant patent portfolio to protect our proprietary rights. If we are not able to protect and enforce those rights, our ability to obtain future licenses or maintain current licenses and royalty revenue could be impaired. In addition, if a court or the patent office were to limit the scope, declare unenforceable, or invalidate any of our patents, current licensees may refuse to make royalty payments, or they may choose to challenge one or more of our patents. It is also possible that: • our pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents; • our patents may not be broad enough to protect our proprietary rights; and • effective patent protection may not be available in every country in which we or our licensees do business. We also rely on licenses, confidentiality agreements, other contractual agreements, and copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights. It is possible that: • laws and contractual restrictions may not be sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technologies or deter others from developing similar technologies; and • policing unauthorized use of our patented technologies, trademarks, and other proprietary rights would be difficult, expensive, and time-consuming, within and particularly outside of the United States of America. 26 Table of Contents Certain terms or rights granted in our license agreements or our development contracts may limit our future revenue opportunities. While it is not our general practice to sign license agreements that provide exclusive rights for a period of time with respect to a technology, field of use, and/or geography, or to accept similar limitations in product development contracts, we have entered into such agreements and may in the future. Although additional compensation or other benefits may be part of the agreement, the compensation or benefits may not adequately compensate us for the limitations or restrictions we have agreed to as that particular market develops. Over the life of the exclusivity period, especially in markets that grow larger or faster than anticipated, our revenue may be limited and less than what we could have achieved in the market with several licensees or additional products available to sell to a specific set of customers. If we are unable to continually improve and reduce the cost of our technologies, companies may not incorporate our technologies into their products, which could impair our revenue growth. Our ability to achieve revenue growth depends on our continuing ability to improve and reduce the cost of our technologies and to introduce these technologies to the marketplace in a timely manner. If our development efforts are not successful or are significantly delayed, companies may not incorporate our technologies into their products and our revenue growth may be impaired. If we fail to develop new or enhanced technologies for new applications and platforms, we may not be able to create a market for our technologies or our technologies may become obsolete, and our ability to grow and our results of operations might be harmed. Our initiatives to develop new and enhanced technologies and to commercialize these technologies for new applications and new platforms may not be successful. Any new or enhanced technologies may not be favorably received by consumers and could damage our reputation or our brand. Expanding our technologies could also require significant additional expenses and strain our management, financial, and operational resources. Moreover, technology products generally have relatively short product life cycles and our current products may become obsolete in the future. Our ability to generate revenues will be harmed if: • we fail to develop new technologies or products; • the technologies we develop infringe on third-party patents or other third-party rights; • our new technologies fail to gain market acceptance; or • our current products become obsolete or no longer meet new regulatory requirements. We have limited engineering, customer service, quality assurance and manufacturing resources to design and fulfill favorable product delivery schedules and sufficient levels of quality in support of our different product areas. Products and services may not be delivered in a timely way, with sufficient levels of quality, or at all, which may reduce our revenue. Engineering, customer service, quality assurance, and manufacturing resources are deployed against a variety of different projects and programs to provide sufficient levels of quality necessary for channels and customers. Success in various markets may depend on timely deliveries and overall levels of sustained quality and customer service. Failure to provide favorable product and program deliverables and quality and customer service levels, or provide them at all, may disrupt channels and customers and reduce our revenues. The higher cost of products incorporating our touch-enabling technologies may inhibit or prevent their widespread adoption. Personal computer and console gaming peripherals, mobile devices, touchscreens, and automotive and industrial controls incorporating our touch-enabling technologies can be more expensive than similar competitive products that are not touch-enabled. Although major manufacturers, such as ALPS Electric Co., BMW, LG Electronics, Logitech, Microsoft, Nokia, Samsung, and Sony have licensed our technologies, the greater expense of 27 Table of Contents development and production of products containing our touch-enabling technologies may be a significant barrier to their widespread adoption and sale. Third-party validation studies may not demonstrate all the benefits of our medical training simulators, which could affect customer motivation to buy. In medical training, validation studies are generally used to confirm the usefulness of new techniques, devices, and training methods. For medical training simulators, several levels of validation are generally tested: content, concurrent, construct, and predictive. A validation study performed by a third party, such as a hospital, a teaching institution, or even an individual healthcare professional, could result in showing little or no benefit for one or more types of validation for our medical training simulators. Such validation study results published in medical journals could impact the willingness of customers to buy our training simulators, especially new simulators that have not previously been validated. Due to the time generally required to complete and publish additional validation studies (usually more than a year), the negative impact on sales revenue could be significant. Medical licensing and certification authorities may not recommend or require use of our technologies for training and/or testing purposes, significantly slowing or inhibiting the market penetration of our medical simulation technologies. Several key medical certification bodies, including the American Board of Internal Medicine (“ABIM”) and the American College of Cardiology (“ACC”), have great influence in recommending particular medical methodologies, including medical training and testing methodologies, for use by medical professionals. In the event that the ABIM and the ACC, as well as other, similar bodies, do not endorse medical simulation products in general, or our products in particular, as a training and/or testing tool, market penetration for our products could be significantly and adversely affected. We have limited distribution channels and resources to market and sell our medical simulators, touch interface products, and three-dimensional simulation and digitizing products, and if we are unsuccessful in marketing and selling these products, we may not achieve or sustain product revenue growth. We have limited resources for marketing and selling medical simulation, touch interface, or three-dimensional simulation and digitizing products, either directly or through distributors. To achieve our business objectives, we must build a balanced mixture of sales through a direct sales channel and through qualified distribution channels. The success of our efforts to sell medical simulation, touch interface, and three-dimensional simulation products will depend upon our ability to retain and develop a qualified sales force and effective distribution channels. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel necessary to sell and market our products. A number of our distributors represent small, specialized companies and may not have sufficient capital or human resources to support the complexities of selling and supporting our products. There can be no assurance that our direct selling efforts will be effective, distributors or OEMs will market our products successfully or, if our relationships with distributors or OEMs terminate, that we will be able to establish relationships with other distributors or OEMs on satisfactory terms, if at all. Any disruption in the distribution, sales, or marketing network for our products could have a material adverse effect on our product revenues. Competition in the medical market may reduce our revenue. If the medical simulation market develops as we anticipate, we believe that we will have increased competition. As in many developing markets, acquisitions, or consolidations may occur that could lead to larger competitors with more resources or broader market penetration. This increased competition may result in the decline of our revenue and may cause us to reduce our selling prices. Competition in the mobility or touchscreen markets may increase our costs and reduce our revenue. If the mobility or touchscreen markets develop as we anticipate, we believe that we will face a greater number of competitors, possibly including the internal design teams of existing and potential OEM customers. These potential competitors may have significantly greater financial and technical resources than we do, and the costs associated with 28 Table of Contents competing with such potential competitors could be significant. Additionally, increased competition may result in the reduction of our market share and/or cause us to reduce our prices, which may result in a decline in our revenue. Automobiles incorporating our touch-enabling technologies are subject to lengthy product development periods, making it difficult to predict when and whether we will receive automotive royalties. The product development process for automobiles is very lengthy, sometimes longer than four years. We may not earn royalty revenue on our automotive technologies unless and until automobiles featuring our technologies are shipped to customers, which may not occur until several years after we enter into an agreement with an automobile manufacturer or a supplier to an automobile manufacturer. Throughout the product development process, we face the risk that an automobile manufacturer or supplier may delay the incorporation of, or choose not to incorporate, our technologies into its automobiles, making it difficult for us to predict the automotive royalties we may receive, if any. After the product launches, our royalties still depend on market acceptance of the vehicle or the option packages if our technology is an option (for example, a navigation unit), which is likely to be determined by many factors beyond our control. We have experienced significant change in our business, and our failure to manage the complexities associated with the changing economic environment and technology landscape could harm our business. Any future periods of rapid economic and technological change may place significant strains on our managerial, financial, engineering, or other resources. Further economic weakness, in combination with our complex technologies, may demand an unusually high level of managerial effectiveness in anticipating, planning, coordinating, and meeting our operational needs as well as the needs of our licensees. Our failure to effectively manage these resources during periods of rapid economic or technological change may harm our business. We might be unable to retain or recruit necessary personnel, which could slow the development and deployment of our technologies. Our ability to develop and deploy our technologies and to sustain our revenue growth depends upon the continued service of our management and other key personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. Management and other key employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time upon short notice. The loss of management or key personnel could delay product development cycles or otherwise harm our business. We believe that our future success will also depend largely on our ability to attract, integrate, and retain sales, support, marketing, and research and development personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, integrating, and retaining such personnel. Given the protracted nature of if, how, and when we collect royalties on new design contracts, it may be difficult to craft compensation plans that will attract and retain the level of salesmanship needed to secure these contracts. Our stock option program is a long-term retention program that is intended to attract, retain, and provide incentives for talented employees, officers and directors, and to align stockholder and employee interests. Additionally some of our executive officers and key employees hold stock options with exercise prices above the current market price of our common stock. Each of these factors may impair our ability to retain the services of our executive officers and key employees. Our technologies are complex and we rely upon the continued service of our existing personnel to support licensees, enhance existing technologies, and develop new technologies. Investment Risks Our quarterly revenues and operating results are volatile, and if our future results are below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, the price of our common stock is likely to decline. Our revenues and operating results are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. 29 Table of Contents These factors include: • the establishment or loss of licensing relationships; • the timing and recognition of payments under fixed and/or up-front license agreements; • the timing of work performed under development agreements; • the timing of our expenses, including costs related to litigation, stock-based awards, acquisitions of technologies, or businesses; • litigation or claims regarding our restatement, internal controls, or other matters; • the timing of introductions and market acceptance of new products and product enhancements by us, our licensees, our competitors, or their competitors; • our ability to develop and improve our technologies; • our ability to attract, integrate, and retain qualified personnel; • seasonality in the demand for our products or our licensees’ products; and • our ability to build or ship products on a timely basis. Issuance of the shares of common stock upon exercise of stock options and exercise of warrants will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The issuance of shares of common stock in the following circumstances will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders: (i) upon exercise of some or all of the stock options, and (ii) upon exercise of some or all of the warrants. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such exercises could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these stock options and warrants may encourage short selling by market participants. Our stock price may fluctuate regardless of our performance. The stock market has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to decline regardless of our performance. The market price of our common stock has been, and in the future could be, significantly affected by factors such as: actual or anticipated fluctuations in operating results; announcements of technical innovations; announcements regarding litigation in which we are involved; changes by game console manufacturers to not include touch-enabling capabilities in their products; new products or new contracts; sales or the perception in the market of possible sales of large number of shares of our common stock by insiders or others; the timing and magnitude of purchases of our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program and any cessation of the program; changes in securities analysts’ recommendations; changing circumstances regarding competitors or their customers; governmental regulatory action; developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; inclusion in or exclusion from various stock indices; and general market conditions. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has been initiated against that company, such as the suit currently pending against us. Our stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and add volatility. Any repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and add volatility. The repurchase program is at our discretion, and thus there can be no assurance that any repurchases will actually be made under the program, nor is there any assurance that a sufficient number of shares of our common stock will be repurchased to satisfy the market’s expectations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any repurchases conducted under the plan will be made at the best possible price. The existence of a stock repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially 30 Table of Contents reduce the market liquidity for our stock. Additionally, we are permitted to and could discontinue our stock repurchase program at any time and any such discontinuation could cause the market price of our stock to decline. Our president and chief executive officer has announced his intent to transition to the role of chairman of the board, and our ability to recruit a replacement president and chief executive officer may negatively impact our future success. On October 31, 2007, Mr. Viegas recommended a leadership transition plan whereby we will hire a new chief executive officer and Mr. Viegas will serve as the chairman of our board of directors. Mr. Viegas will continue to serve in his present capacities during the candidate search and transition period. We have retained the services of an executive search firm and a search for his replacement is currently underway. We may encounter difficulties recruiting a suitable replacement for Mr. Viegas. We are conducting an extensive national search to select a qualified candidate, and may incur significant costs in locating and attracting a suitable replacement. If we are unable to recruit a suitable replacement president and chief executive officer, or if the process takes longer than expected, our future success may be negatively impacted. Our major stockholders retain significant control over us, which may lead to conflicts with other stockholders over corporate governance matters and could also affect the volatility of our stock price. We currently have, have had in the past, and may have in the future, stockholders who retain greater than 10% of our outstanding stock. Acting together, these stockholders would be able to exercise significant influence over matters that our stockholders vote upon, including the election of directors and mergers or other business combinations, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over or merging with us. Further, if any individuals in this group elect to sell a significant portion or all of their holdings of our common stock, the trading price of our common stock could experience volatility. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control, which could reduce the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. In addition, certain provisions of Delaware law may discourage, delay, or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares. We may engage in acquisitions that could dilute stockholders’ interests, divert management attention, or cause integration problems. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past and may in the future, acquire businesses or intellectual property that we feel could complement our business, enhance our technical capabilities, or increase our intellectual property portfolio. If we consummate acquisitions through cash and/or an exchange of our securities, our stockholders could suffer significant dilution. Acquisitions could also create risks for us, including: • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisitions; • use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisitions; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • difficulties in assimilation of acquired personnel or operations; • failure to realize the anticipated benefits of acquired intellectual property or other assets; • charges for write-down of assets associated with unsuccessful acquisitions; and • potential intellectual property infringement claims related to newly acquired product lines. Any acquisitions, even if successfully completed, might not generate significant additional revenue or provide any benefit to our business. In addition to acquisitions, we may also consider making strategic divestitures. With any divestiture, there are risks that future operating results could be unfavorably impacted. 31 Table of Contents Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as standards are modified, supplemented, or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We have determined that our internal controls relating to income taxes are currently ineffective. As discussed in Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, our management team, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal controls. They concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting as they relate to income taxes were ineffective as of December 31, 2007. We have subsequently initiated actions that are intended to improve our accounting for income taxes and the related internal controls. Any material weakness in our internal controls over the accounting for income taxes could impair our ability to report our financial position and results of operations accurately and in a timely manner. We have identified a material weakness in our internal controls related to the accounting for income taxes as of December 31, 2007 that, if not properly remediated, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements in future periods. Based on an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2007, due to the existence of a deficiency in the operation of our internal controls related to the accounting for income taxes, which constituted a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our management has concluded that such disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of such date. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The identified deficiency pertained to controls which were not adequately designed to ensure proper accounting and disclosure of income taxes. These inadequate controls resulted in adjustments to our previously reported quarterly unaudited financial results as of March 31, 2007 and the cumulative loss amounts for quarterly unaudited financial results as of June 30, 2007 and September 30, 2007. Because of this material weakness, there is risk that a material misstatement of our annual or quarterly financial statements will not be prevented or detected. We are currently in the process of designing and implementing control procedures to remediate the material weakness. We cannot guarantee, however, that such remediation efforts will correct the material weakness such that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective. In the event that we do not adequately remedy this material weakness, or if we fail to maintain effective internal controls in future periods, our operating results, financial position and stock price could be adversely affected. Legislative actions, higher insurance cost, and potential new accounting pronouncements are likely to impact our future financial position and results of operations. There have been regulatory changes and new accounting pronouncements including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and Statement of Financial Accounting Standard “SFAS” No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment,” (“SFAS No. 123R”) which have had an effect on our financial position and results of operations. Under SFAS No. 123R, we have been required since January 1, 2006, to adopt a different method of determining the compensation expense of our employee stock options. SFAS No. 123R has had a significant adverse effect on our reported financial conditions and may impact the way we conduct our business. There may potentially be new accounting pronouncements or additional regulatory rulings that also have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. These and other potential changes could materially increase the expenses we report under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”), and adversely affect our operating results. 32 Table of Contents Audits from taxing authorities such as the Internal Revenue Service could impact our future financial position and results of operations. Our fiscal 2004 income tax return is currently under a routine examination by the Internal Revenue Service. The results of this audit or other audits could adversely affect our financial position or operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 