Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements: • uncertainties in economic conditions, including conditions that could pressure enterprise information technology spending; • introduction of, demand for and market acceptance of Savvis’ products and services; • whether or not Savvis is able to sign additional outsourcing deals; • variability in pricing for those products and services; • merger and acquisition activity by Savvis clients or other client activity that affects the level of business done with Savvis; • increasing competition, including that from consolidation in the industry; • rapid or unexpected evolution of technology; • changes in the operating environment; and • changes or proposed changes in, or introduction of new, regulatory schemes or environments that impact Savvis and/or its clients’ businesses. The forward-looking statements contained in this document speak only as of the date of publication, March 4, 2011. Subsequent events and developments may cause the Company’s forward-looking statements to change, and the Company will not undertake efforts to revise those forward-looking statements to reflect events after this date. Other important assumptions and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are specified elsewhere in this report and in the Company’s other SEC reports, accessible on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and the Company’s website at www.savvis.net. Except as specified herein, the information on the Company’s website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Overview We provide information technology, or IT, services including cloud services, managed hosting, managed security, colocation, professional services and network services through our global infrastructure to businesses and government agencies around the world. Our services are designed to offer a flexible and comprehensive IT solution that meets the specific IT infrastructure and business needs of our clients. Our suite of products can be purchased individually, in various combinations, or as part of a total or partial outsourcing arrangement. Our colocation solutions meet the specific needs of clients who require control of their physical assets, while our managed hosting solution offerings provide clients with access to our services and infrastructure without the upfront capital costs associated with equipment acquisition. By partnering with us, our clients may drive down the costs of acquiring and managing IT infrastructure and achieve increased operational efficiency by taking advantage of our global monitoring, application performance support and other operational support systems and tools, which allow our clients to focus their resources on their core business while we focus on the delivery and performance of their IT infrastructure services. We were incorporated in Delaware in 1998 and began providing high speed Internet service to enterprise clients and Internet service providers. In 2004, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Cable and Wireless USA, Inc. and Cable & Wireless Internet Services, Inc. together with the assets of certain of their affiliates, or CWA. With the acquisition of CWA, we acquired hosting assets in 15 data centers, an Internet Protocol network, a global Content Delivery Network, or CDN, and consulting expertise that enabled us to expand the scope of services we offer and the scale of our operations. In January 2007, we completed the sale of the assets related to our non-strategic CDN services, and in June 2007, we sold the assets and assigned the lease for two data centers in Santa Clara, California to Microsoft Corporation. We used the proceeds from these sales to develop or expand data centers in the United States, the United Kingdom and Singapore. In June 2010, we acquired Fusepoint, Inc., an independent provider of outsourced managed IT and infrastructure services to mid-market and larger enterprises in Canada, obtaining hosting assets in three data centers, which are located in Toronto, Vancouver and Montreal. Our principal executive offices are located at 1 SAVVIS Parkway, Town & Country, Missouri 63017 and our telephone number is (314) 628-7000. Our Services We present our revenue in two categories of services: (1) hosting services and (2) network services. Hosting Services provide the core facilities, computing, including cloud services, data storage, security and other infrastructure on which to run business applications. We manage 32 data centers located in the North America, Europe and Asia with approximately 1.54 million square feet of gross raised floor space; however, we provide managed services from 39 locations. Our hosting services are comprised of colocation and managed hosting and allow our clients to choose which parts of their IT infrastructure they own and operate versus those that we own and operate for them. Clients can scale their use of our services as their own requirements change and as clients learn the benefits of outsourcing IT infrastructure management. • Colocation is designed for clients seeking data center space and power for their server and networking equipment needs. Our data centers provide our clients around the world with a secure, high-powered, purpose-built location for their IT equipment. • Managed Hosting Services provide a fully managed solution for a client’s IT infrastructure and network needs. In providing our managed hosting services, we deploy industry leading hardware and software platforms that are installed in our data centers to deliver the physical or virtualized services necessary for operating our clients’ applications. Managed hosting services include: • Cloud Services enable significant new levels of scalability, flexibility and cost efficiency for businesses. Cloud is a style of computing that aligns business needs with IT capacity to drive more efficient and effective use of a client’s infrastructure resources. The value of virtualized infrastructure, fully automated provisioning processes, security assurances in complex environments and flexible business terms can result in lower infrastructure and maintenance costs, preservation of capital, elasticity to respond to changing business needs and unanticipated load changes, acceleration of new application platforms, better end-user experience and reduction of carbon footprint through consolidation and lower energy consumption. 4 Table of Contents • Consulting Services are provided through our skilled personnel who assist our clients in getting maximum value from our service offerings. We offer assistance and consultation in security for network and hosting environments, virtualization, web-based applications, business recovery, software as a service, program management, infrastructure and migration. Our consulting services organization assists our clients with ongoing operational support, as well as assessing, designing, developing, implementing and managing outsourcing solutions. • Dedicated Hosting provides clients with managed hosting services on hardware and software that is isolated to a single client. Clients requiring dedicated infrastructure usually have either stringent internal requirements for application performance, security or data integrity, or they are attempting to become compliant with external industry or governing regulations. In a dedicated hosting scenario, clients are provided discrete hardware components. • Utility Computing and Storage provides clients with an available, secure applications platform that delivers scalability of an entire range of IT infrastructure at lower total cost than found with traditional service provider models. We achieve this combination of lower cost and better service through the use of virtualization technology. Through our managed network, we provide connectivity between the client and the utility computing platform housed in our data centers. With our utility computing and storage solution, our clients pay only for the services they currently need, while maintaining the ability to scale up or down the services to meet their changing business needs. • Managed Security Services provide global around-the-clock monitoring and management of security appliances, software and network-based controls, and incident response, for our managed hosting and network services clients. We utilize our advanced network tools to detect and filter malicious traffic before it reaches our clients’ infrastructures, in addition to providing virtualized security services using industry-standard virtualization technology in our data centers to reduce the need for our clients to pay for dedicated security equipment. Network Services are comprised of our managed network services, including managed VPN, hosting area network, or HAN, and bandwidth services. • Managed VPN service is a fully managed, end-to-end solution that includes hardware, management systems and operations to transport an enterprise’s voice, video and data applications at corresponding quality-of-service levels, whether those applications are housed at our client’s site or in our data centers. Clients that purchase this service are generally geographically dispersed enterprises seeking to transmit latency-sensitive data more cost effectively in a secure environment among their multiple locations around the world. • Hosting Area Network is a dedicated network that provides secure, high speed Internet connectivity for hosting and cloud clients located in our data centers, along with value-added services such as load balancing and network-based firewalls. • Bandwidth Services are provided to enterprises and wholesale carrier clients. We offer Tier 1 Internet services in North America, Europe and Asia that are managed, unmanaged or integrated with our VPN. In addition, we offer carrier diversity by enabling connectivity either to Internet providers built into our data centers or to providers in carrier hotels that are connected to our data centers by our metro Ethernet rings. Our Segments We manage our business based on two reportable service-based segments: hosting and network. Hosting services consist of colocation and managed hosting services and provide the core facilities, computing, data storage and network infrastructure on which to run business applications. Network services are comprised of managed network services, hosting area network, application transport and bandwidth services. Management evaluates the performance of the two segments primarily based on revenue and adjusted EBITDA. Financial information regarding each of our reportable segments is included in Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 Table of Contents Industry Trends The IT capabilities for many businesses have often been viewed as competitive advantages in the past; however, many businesses now recognize that while their IT infrastructure is important, it no longer provides a strategic or financial advantage. As a result, the IT strategy for many businesses has been increasingly focused on efforts to reduce costs, improve responsiveness to a changing business environment and focus internal resources on projects that deliver competitive advantages. As the core functions of IT, such as data storage, processing and transport, have become commonplace throughout all industries, these functions have become routine and increasingly thought of as simply costs of doing business. Many businesses are also recognizing the high cost and inefficiency of managing IT infrastructure themselves, including the difficulties of upgrading technology, training and retaining skilled personnel with domain expertise, and matching IT costs with actual benefits. Given these continuing trends in IT strategy, budget constraints and inefficient use of resources, businesses often look to outsource significant parts of their IT functions to trusted partners so they can focus on the areas that still provide competitive advantages, such as client or industry-specific applications. Most businesses today will consider outsourcing when reviewing their IT strategies; however, traditional outsourcing approaches, such as colocation, do not often provide meaningful strategic, operational or financial benefits as many outsourcers simply operate a client’s infrastructure without fundamentally changing or updating the underlying technology or the way the infrastructure is managed or, in cases where holistic outsourcing agreements are in place, businesses lose control of differentiating IT applications. For example, an outsourcer may run the client’s current IT systems more efficiently but because they use legacy technology, the client will likely not achieve the benefits of an operating infrastructure utilizing the latest technology hardware, software and IT research and development. We believe that businesses are moving away from long term, locked-in, full scale IT outsourcing, due to newer types of services available that allow clients greater economies and increased mid-term flexibility. As a result, we focus on developing and delivering services that allow clients more flexibility. We provide a broad range of infrastructure and consultative services that enable clients to improve the quality and lower the cost of their IT operations and increase the availability and flexibility of their IT systems. In addition, our solution may allow our clients to have visibility and control of their application performance while shifting our clients from a corporate model based on large capital investments for buying, maintaining and depreciating IT assets to a pay-as-you-go service model that allows clients to scale their IT infrastructure up or down as their business requirements change. Our approach enables us to be a flexible and scalable partner to our clients that can provide tailored, end-to-end IT infrastructure solutions on demand. Our Strategy We focus on providing complex, highly secure, highly available, high performance services to business enterprises, providing value through technology solutions and proactive service that enables these enterprises to gain a competitive advantage through their IT infrastructure. Because of our global infrastructure, management systems and business model, we have the unique capability to deliver fully managed and integrated IT solutions to enterprises with offices around the world. Our key growth strategies include the following: • Target the right clients. We specifically target clients that we believe will receive the most economic value from using our services. Many mid-sized businesses have traditionally outsourced single IT service offerings, such as network services or hosting services, and have continued to own and manage portions of their IT infrastructure themselves. We believe that these businesses can lower the overall cost of their IT operations while improving the quality of their IT systems by purchasing our managed services and outsourcing the majority of their IT services rather than a single IT service. Additionally, we target large enterprises that wish to outsource specific components of their IT infrastructure or applications. In particular we focus on such clients in the financial services industry. We believe that pursuing these clients will allow us to increase revenues and profitability as these clients purchase our higher margin services while at the same time reducing their overall IT costs. • Offer targeted business solutions to solve specific clients’ needs. We develop, market and deliver solutions designed to satisfy the needs of our targeted clients. These end-to-end solutions are comprised primarily of our technical capabilities and our consulting services, which may encompass third party services. Examples of our solutions include proximity hosting for the financial industry, software as a service enablement services for the independent software vendor and software provider industry, and test and development solutions for companies looking to outsource their software testing and development infrastructure. Our client focused solutions allow us to offer more compelling value propositions to targeted client segments. • Deliver compelling and comprehensive technical capabilities. Our broad, integrated, comprehensive offering of IT services allows us to act as a full service provider to our clients. We offer a full range of solutions, including hosting, cloud, computing, storage, applications, network and security services. Our full service orientation creates incremental revenue growth as clients seek to minimize the number of outside vendors and demand “one-stop” service providers. Additionally, we can meet clients’ increasing IT demands through scalable solutions. 6 Table of Contents • Leverage our data centers and global network and take advantage of expansion opportunities. We currently operate 32 data centers around the world, and offer our services at an additional 7 leased locations, which we expect will provide us with significant operating leverage as we increase the amount of our revenue that is derived from managed services. By acquiring new managed services clients and migrating our existing clients that purchase only colocation or network services to purchasing our higher value managed services, we expect to be able to increase the revenues we derive from these data centers. In 2009, we began the expansion of our hosting facility located in Weehawken, New Jersey, which will add approximately 105,000 square feet of gross raised floor space over 5 years, approximately 35,000 of which has been completed to date; in 2010 we expanded data centers in Chicago, Illinois, Washington, D.C., and London. In 2011, we intend to continue expansions in targeted markets to enable further revenue growth, in addition to leveraging our agreements with Thomson Reuters and Bharti Airtel to offer our services in their existing data centers. Our Infrastructure We provide our services through our global infrastructure that includes: • 32 Data Centers in North America, Europe and Asia with approximately 1.54 million square feet of gross raised floor space, with managed services offered at an additional 7 leased locations; • Tier 1 OC-192 Internet Backbone with over 17,000 miles of fiber under IRU agreements; and • Operations Support System, or OSS, which provides automated provisioning, end-to-end management, and integration with commercial element management systems. We utilize virtualization and automation technologies to leverage our global infrastructure, which allows us to offer our services as part of a total outsourcing solution or on a utility, or as-needed, basis. By applying virtualization technology to our servers, storage, security and network devices, we are able to offer clients connected to our network access to a suite of services, without the client having to purchase, install and configure equipment and network services, and with the ability to easily scale the infrastructure to meet evolving client requirements. For information regarding our revenue and long-lived assets by geographic region, please refer to Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Clients We currently provide services to clients across all industries including the financial services, media and entertainment, software and government sectors. No single client accounted for more than 10% of our revenue during 2010; however, 27% of our revenue for 2010 was generated by clients in the financial services industry and 8% of that by our largest client, Thomson Reuters. Clients in the government sector did not account for a material percentage of our total revenue during 2010. Our contracts with our clients are typically for one to three years in length. Many of our client contracts contain service level agreements that provide for service credits if we fail to maintain defined and specific quality levels of service. Sales and Marketing We reach potential new clients and sell new services to our existing clients through our direct sales force, indirect sales channels and marketing programs. Direct Sales and Consultation. We have approximately 122 sales representatives that work directly with potential new and existing clients. Our direct sales force uses a ‘solution selling’ approach to understand a client’s IT infrastructure requirements. Since we tend to serve more complex environments and clients, we frequently employ consultative methods in order to win clients. An example is our ‘Savvis Transformation Workshop,’ where we work with potential clients to understand their current environment and issues, then design and propose solutions to these issues. By seeking detail on their applications and long term IT goals, combined with our years of experience, we are able to provide thought leadership and display high levels of competence and dependability to our potential clients. All direct sales representatives take part in an extensive training program designed to develop in-depth consultative selling skills. Indirect Sales. We market our products and solutions through various indirect channels, including collaborations with existing clients and technology providers, telecommunications companies and system integrators. By working with these companies, we have opened new avenues for growth and see potential for significant opportunities to further enhance revenue growth through these types of relationships, as we have with our largest client, Thomson Reuters. The Thomson Reuters sales force is processing orders for our solutions in ten data centers, and we have their Elektron Hosting solution available in six of our own data centers, in addition to five other global data centers locations in which we have rented existing space to manage this solution. We have also recently entered into a marketing agreement with Bharti Airtel, in which we will provide our managed services from Bharti Airtel’s data centers located in India. We use these partnerships to expand our existing presence in countries in which we currently do business, as well as a way to expand into new markets. 7 Table of Contents Marketing. We are a business-to-business company whose marketing programs are targeted at information technology executives, as well as line of business and finance executives. We use marketing campaigns to increase brand awareness, generate leads, accelerate the sales process, retain existing clients and promote new products to existing and prospective clients. We participate in industry conferences and trade shows. We use direct mail, e-newsletters, surveys, Internet marketing, on-line and on-site seminars, collateral materials and welcome kits to communicate with existing clients and to reach potential new clients. Our employees author and publish articles about industry trends and our services. Additionally, we work closely with industry analysts and the press so that they understand and can communicate the value of our services. Competition Prospective clients for our infrastructure solutions often weigh the advantages of outsourcing to a service provider against their ability to manage IT infrastructure internally. In those instances, the in-house solution is a source of competition. By offering a complete range of services that can be scaled up or down as needed and utilizing the latest technology hardware, software and IT research and development, we compete by providing meaningful strategic, operational or financial benefits that enable clients to improve the quality and lower the cost of their IT operations. Our external competitors range from very large telecommunications companies, hardware manufacturers and system integrators that support the in-house IT operations for a business or offer outsourcing solutions, to smaller point solutions companies that sell individual IT services or solutions to selected industries. Telecommunications companies such as AT&T Inc., Verizon Communications Inc., BT and Level 3 Communications have used their legacy voice and data business to expand into hosting and network services. System integrators like IBM, HP/EDS, Accenture and CSC focus on long-term systems integration projects and outsourcing contracts that include hiring a large portion of the clients’ staff. Due to the size of these companies, they may be able to offer more inexpensive solutions to clients; however, we feel we are able to successfully compete against these larger companies by offering tailored IT solutions that target specific clients, such as mid-size enterprise businesses, or specific client segments, such as the financial services industry. Other external competitors focus on one part of IT infrastructure service, such as colocation, managed hosting, cloud or Internet access. This category includes companies such as Equinix, Inc., Rackspace Hosting, Inc., Terremark Worldwide, Inc. and Internap Network Services Corporation. Also, vendors such as Microsoft Corporation, Oracle and Saleforce.com focus on delivering their proprietary software and application offerings as a hosted service, or, in some cases, offer other hosted solutions into the market. Some competitors, including GoGrid and Amazon.com, Inc., focus on delivering cloud computing and software as a service to enterprise clients. We feel we are able to successfully compete with these competitors by offering a broad, integrated, comprehensive offering of IT services, our vendor neutral application strategy and our ability to provide clients a high level of client service in a global, “one-stop” target solution. For further information on our competitive strategy, please refer to the Our Strategy section of Part I, Item 1. Business included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Regulatory Matters The following section describes material laws and regulatory developments that we believe are currently applicable to our business. It does not cover all present or pending federal, state, local or foreign regulations affecting the communications industry. U.S. Regulatory Matters Most of our existing services are not currently regulated by the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, or any other government agency of the United States or public utility commissions of the individual states, other than regulations that apply to businesses generally, although our private line service is generally regulated by the FCC as a telecommunications service. As implemented by rules, policies and precedents issued by the FCC, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 regulates the provision of ‘telecommunications services’ and generally exempts ‘information services’ and ‘non-common carrier services’ from its regulation. We believe that many of the products and services we offer, whether on a facilities or resale basis, generally qualify as information services or non-common carrier services and are therefore not subject to federal regulation. However, in light of ongoing FCC proceedings and developing FCC case law, it is possible that some or all of the information services that we provide should or will become subject to certain regulatory requirements. As a service provider to insured financial institutions, we are subject to the provisions of the Bank Service Company Act, which subjects the service provider to regulation, administrative jurisdiction and examination by the federal banking regulators with respect to the performance of services to insured depository institutions. These provisions have not had a material effect on our operations or expenses. Additionally, future legislation may potentially subject us to expanded regulation with respect to a broader class of clients and with respect to range and severity of regulatory actions to which we are exposed. 8 Table of Contents International Regulatory Matters Our principal markets outside the United States include countries in North America, South America, Europe and Asia. As is true in the United States, the market for our services in each of the major economies within these regions is open to foreign competition. We believe that we are authorized to provide our services under the applicable regulations in all countries where we derive substantial business. In certain countries throughout Asia, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, regulatory and market access barriers, including foreign ownership limitations and entrenched monopolies, may require us to partner with local providers to provide certain services to our client or may prevent us from providing services directly to clients. As our business plan does not contemplate selling a significant amount of services in such countries in the near term, we do not believe that our inability to offer services directly to clients in these countries will impact us significantly. Intellectual Property We have a number of United States and international patents protecting aspects of our technology, and we are currently pursuing additional patent applications in the United States and internationally. We have registered trademarks for our business name and several product and service names and marketing slogans. In addition, we have applied for trademark protection for various products, services and marketing slogans. We have also registered various Internet domain names in connection with the SAVVIS public website. Although we consider our intellectual property rights to be valuable, we do not believe that the expiration of any single patent, service mark or trademark would materially affect our consolidated results of operations. Employees As of December 31, 2010, we employed 2,440 full-time persons, of which 1,306 were engaged in engineering, global operations and client service; 235 in product development and product engineering; 598 in sales, sales support, product management and marketing; and 301 in finance and administration. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We believe our relationship with our employees is good. Executive Officers of the Company Set forth below are the names, ages as of March 4, 2011, and current positions of our executive officers. Name Age Title James E. Ousley 65 Chief Executive Officer Peter J. Bazil 38 Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Bryan S. Doerr 47 Chief Technology Officer William D. Fathers 42 President Gregory W. Freiberg 43 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Paul S. Hott 39 Vice President, Human Resources James D. Mori 55 Senior Vice President, Americas Sales Jeffrey H. Von Deylen 47 Senior Vice President, Global Operations and Client Services Set forth below is a brief description of the principal occupation and business experience of each of our executive officers. James E. Ousley has served as our Chief Executive Officer since March 2010. From January 2010 to March 2010, he had served as our interim Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Ousley has also served as our Chairman of the Board of Directors since May 2006 and as a director of our company since April 2002. Prior to holding the position of Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Ousley also served as a member of the board’s audit, compensation and business development committees. Mr. Ousley served as the President and Chief Executive Officer and Director of Vytek Corporation from 2001 until April 2004. From 1999 to 2002, Mr. Ousley also served as chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of Syntegra Inc. (USA), a division of British Telecommunications. From September 1991 to August 1999, Mr. Ousley served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Control Data Systems. Mr. Ousley serves on the board of Datalink, Inc. Mr. Ousley received a B.S. degree from the University of Nebraska. Peter J. Bazil has served as our Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since July 2010. From 2007 to July 2010, Mr. Bazil was our Vice President, Associate General Counsel. Mr. Bazil joined our Company in 2003 as an Associate General Counsel and served in that role from 2003 to 2007. Prior to joining our Company, Mr. Bazil had served as Associate General Counsel for WAM!Net, Inc. since 2000. Mr. Bazil received his B.A. in Economics from the University of California- Berkeley, and holds a J.D. from the Pepperdine University School of Law. 9 Table of Contents Bryan S. Doerr has served as our Chief Technology Officer since October 2003. From February 2002 to October 2003, Mr. Doerr was our Vice President, Software Development. Prior to this, Mr. Doerr held several positions in management, software technology research, and software development at Bridge Information Systems, Inc., The Boeing Company, and Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory. Mr. Doerr received his B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Missouri, a M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Johns Hopkins University, and a Masters in Information Management from Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri. William D. Fathers was appointed President of our Company on February 24, 2011. Mr. Fathers had previously served as our Senior Vice President, Global Sales and Marketing since November 2009, prior to this as our Senior Vice President, Managing Director – U.S. since August 2008 and prior to that as our Senior Vice President, Engineering and Development since April 2007. Prior to joining us, Mr. Fathers was Global Head of Development for Reuters Limited from April 2005 to April 2007. From September 2003 to April 2005, Mr. Fathers was a Senior Vice President within Reuters Global Business Development team and was responsible for several major acquisition and post acquisition integration programs within the financial services market. From 2001 to 2003, Mr. Fathers held other senior technology positions within Reuters Limited. Prior to joining Reuters Limited, Mr. Fathers was a senior consultant at a telecom and media consultancy company, PA Consulting Group, and he served as an officer in the British Armed Forces. He received a Masters degree in Engineering from Cambridge University. Gregory W. Freiberg has served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since April 2009. Prior to joining us, Mr. Freiberg served as the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for XO Holdings, Inc. and XO Communications, LLC from April 2006 to April 2009 and as Vice President of Finance and Controller from June 2005 to April 2006. Prior to joining XO Communications, Inc., Mr. Freiberg held positions as Senior Vice President of Finance with Asia Netcom and Asia Global Crossing from 2002 to 2005. Mr. Freiberg has served on the board of directors for joint ventures in Hong Kong, Japan, the Philippines and Singapore. Mr. Freiberg received a B.S. degree in Business Administration from the University of South Dakota, holds a CPA certificate from the State of Nebraska and served in the U.S. Army National Guard from 1986 to 1995. Paul S. Hott has served as our Vice President, Human Resources since November 2009. Mr. Hott had previously served as Vice President, Talent Acquisition and Development since joining our company in January 2007. Prior to joining us, Mr. Hott was Senior Director, Human Resources at The Solae Company from 2005 to 2007. From 2002 to 2005, Mr. Hott held the positions of Senior Vice President, Leadership and Coaching Skill Development and Vice President, Learning and Organization Effectiveness at Bank of America. Prior to this, he held various management positions at GE Capital Fleet Services and The Pillsbury Company. Mr. Hott received a B.S. degree in Political Science and a M.B.A. from the University of Iowa. James D. Mori has served as our Senior Vice President, Americas Sales since March 2010, and prior to that as our Senior Vice President, Global Client Services since March 2008. Mr. Mori served as our Senior Vice President, Client Services from November 2007 to March 2008, and prior to this, as our Managing Director, Americas since joining our company in October 1999. Previously, Mr. Mori served as Area Vice President for Sprint Corporation and in various other sales leadership positions with Sprint Corporation prior to that time. Mr. Mori received a B.S. degree in Business Administration from the University of Missouri. Jeffrey H. Von Deylen has served as our Senior Vice President, Global Operations and Client Services since October 2008. Prior to that, Mr. Von Deylen served as our Chief Financial Officer from March 2003 to April 2009 and as a director of our company from March 2003 to May 2009. Prior to joining our company, Mr. Von Deylen held several financial positions at American Electric Power Company, Qwest Communications International, LCI International, Arthur Anderson and in Europe with Global Telesystems, Inc. and KPNQwest N.V. Mr. Von Deylen received a B.S. degree in Accountancy from Miami University. Available Information Our Internet site is at http://www.savvis.net. We are not including the information contained on our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this filing. We make available to the public on our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Our reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Investors may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. These filings are also available on the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. 10 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to all other information provided to you in this document. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial also may become important factors that affect our company. Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future results difficult to predict and may cause our operating results to fall below expectations. We incurred net losses of $54.0 million, $20.8 million and $22.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and we may incur net losses in the future. We may also have fluctuations in revenues, expenses and losses due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • demand for and market acceptance of our hosting and network products; • our ability to retain key employees that maintain relationships with our clients; • the duration of the sales cycle for our services; • changes in clients’ budgets for information technology purchases and in the timing of their purchasing decisions; • the announcement or introduction of new or enhanced services by our competitors; • acquisitions and dispositions we may make; • our ability to implement internal systems for reporting, order processing, purchasing, billing and general accounting, among other functions; • our ability to meet performance standards under our agreements with our clients; • changes in the prices we pay for utilities, local access connections, Internet connectivity and longhaul backbone connections; • the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures, including costs relating to the expansion of operations, and of the replacement or upgrade of our network and hosting infrastructure; and • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, our results of operations for any period may not be comparable to the results of operations for any other period and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Demand for our services is vulnerable to economic downturns. If general economic conditions weaken, then our revenues and our financial condition may materially decline. We are vulnerable to general downturns in the domestic and international economies. Demand for our services may decrease if our clients face a deterioration of their businesses or decide to delay capital spending out of uncertainty regarding the future. In addition, our clients may find it more difficult to raise capital in the future due to substantial limitations on the availability of credit and may be forced to delay upgrades to their IT infrastructure. Furthermore, our clients may demand better pricing terms and their ability to timely pay our invoices may be affected by a weakened economy. A deterioration of the economy could also result in a number of our clients facing bankruptcy. As a result, clients may reduce the services they purchase from us, merge with competitors or enter into bankruptcy, any of which could adversely affect our revenues. If the economy weakens, then our revenues and overall financial condition may be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents We operate in a rapidly evolving industry, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict. We operate in an industry characterized by rapid technological innovation, changing client needs, evolving industry standards and frequent introductions of new products and services. Our success depends on our ability to implement managed, network and cloud services that anticipate and respond to rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry developments and client needs. As we encounter new client requirements and increasing competitive pressures, we will likely be required to modify, enhance, reposition or introduce new solutions and service offerings. We may not be successful in doing so in a timely, cost-effective and appropriately responsive manner, or at all. All of these factors make it difficult to predict our future operating results, which may impair our ability to manage our business and our investors’ ability to assess our prospects. Our failure to meet performance standards under our client contracts could result in our clients terminating their relationships with us or our clients being entitled to receive financial compensation, which could lead to reduced revenues. Our agreements with our clients contain various guarantees regarding our performance and our levels of service. If we fail to provide the levels of service or performance required by our agreements, our clients may be able to receive service credits for their accounts and other financial compensation, as well as terminate their relationship with us. In addition, any inability to meet our service level commitments or other performance standards could reduce the confidence of our clients and could consequently impair our ability to obtain and retain clients, which would adversely affect both our ability to generate revenues and our operating results. We depend on a number of third-party providers, and the loss of, or problems with, one or more of these providers may cause financial losses, impede our growth or cause us to lose clients. We are dependent on third-party providers to supply products and services. For example, we lease or otherwise procure equipment from equipment providers, bandwidth capacity from telecommunications network providers in the quantities and quality we require, data center space from third party landlords, power services from local utilities and other energy suppliers, and we source equipment maintenance through third parties. While we have entered into various agreements for equipment, carrier line capacity, data center space, power services and maintenance, any failure to obtain equipment, additional capacity or space, power services or maintenance, if required, would impede the growth of our business, harm our reputation and cause our financial results to suffer. The equipment that we purchase could be deficient in some way, thereby affecting our products and services. Our clients that use the equipment and facilities we lease or the services of these telecommunication providers may in the future experience difficulties due to failures unrelated to our systems. Additionally, any one of these third-party providers could suffer financial failure and, as a result, become incapable of supplying products and services to us. If, for any reason, these providers fail to provide the required services to us or our clients or suffer other failures, we may incur financial losses and our clients may lose confidence in our company, and we may not be able to retain these clients. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to operate our business successfully. As of December 31, 2010, the carrying amount of our debt, including capital and financing method lease obligations was $765.0 million, of which $2.9 million represented the book value of our $3.1 million convertible notes due in May 2012 and $533.3 million represented the book value of the $548.6 million remaining principal outstanding on our term loan. In addition, we expect from time to time to continue to incur additional indebtedness and other liabilities in the future. If we incur additional indebtedness or if we use more cash than we generate in the future, then the possibility that we may not have cash sufficient to pay, when due, the outstanding amount of our indebtedness will increase. If we do not have sufficient cash available to repay our debt obligations when they mature, we will have to refinance such obligations or we could be in default under the terms of our debt obligations, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in such refinancing or that the terms of any refinancing will be acceptable to us. This also means that we will need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, reducing the funds available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, sales and marketing initiatives, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes. Our debt agreements also contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to incur more debt, pay dividends and make distributions, make certain investments, repurchase stock, create liens, enter into transactions with affiliates, make capital expenditures, merge or consolidate, and transfer or sell assets without obtaining the approval of the lender. In addition, some of our debt agreements contain financial covenants that require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum performance levels. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could trigger cross-defaults and acceleration of repayment obligations. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms to meet our future capital needs. If we do not have sufficient cash flow from our operations, we may need to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings in the future in order to meet our operating and capital needs. We may not be able to secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all, at the time when we need such funding. If we are unable to raise additional funds, we may not be able to pursue our growth strategy and our business could suffer. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. In addition, any debt financing that we may secure in the future could have restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Furthermore, if we decide to raise funds through debt or convertible debt financings, we may be unable to meet our interest or principal payments. We may make acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, strategic alliances or exclusivity agreements, each of which is accompanied by inherent risks. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may make acquisitions or investments or enter into joint ventures, strategic alliances or exclusivity agreements with other companies. Risks commonly encountered in such transactions include: • the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the combined companies; • the risk that we may not be able to integrate the acquired services, products or technologies with our current services, products and technologies; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business; • the diversion of management attention from our existing business; • the inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel; • the inability of management to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful integration of acquired businesses; • difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies; • the impairment of relationships with employees, suppliers and clients as a result of any integration; • the loss of an acquired or existing base of clients and accompanying revenue; • the assumption of leased facilities or other long-term commitments, or the assumptions of unknown liabilities, that could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and cash flow; and • dilution to our stockholders. As a result of these potential problems and risks, businesses that we may acquire or invest in may not produce the revenue, earnings or business synergies that we anticipated. These potential problems and risks may have an adverse impact on both our ability to provide services to our clients and our relationships with our clients. In addition, we cannot be assured that any potential transaction will be successfully identified and completed or that, if completed, the acquired businesses or investment will generate sufficient revenue to offset the associated costs or other potential harmful effects on our business. 13 Table of Contents Our increasing use of strategic alliances could expose us to risks not present where we operate without such relationships. We believe that in certain circumstances our business can be benefitted by establishing relationships with strategic partners, and we have entered into strategic alliances and exclusivity agreements to market and sell our services and may continue to do so in the future. In such relationships, we are typically relying on these partners to market our brand and, if our partners do not meet contractual commitments with clients or are unable to provide necessary services, Savvis’ brand may be negatively impacted, which could lead to a loss of existing clients and an inability to attract new clients. Where we rely on strategic alliance partners to support our operations in a particular country or region, we may experience operational problems attributable to the installation, implementation, integration, performance, features or functionality of software, systems or services, which could result in sustained equipment failure leading to claims for service credits under our service level guarantees and, ultimately, loss of business. While acting on our behalf, our partners may also violate applicable laws or regulations to which we are subject, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or relevant foreign statutes. Such violations may result in audits, investigations, litigation, penalties or fines, which could have a significant impact on our financial condition, or prohibitions on doing business in certain countries or with governments, including the U.S. government, which could limit our growth opportunities. A material reduction in revenue from our largest client or the loss of other key clients could harm our financial results to the extent not offset by cost reductions or additional revenue from new or other existing clients. Thomson Reuters accounted for approximately 7% of our revenue in 2008 and 2009, and approximately 8% of our revenue in 2010. Investment companies, banks and other financial services companies, excluding Thomson Reuters, accounted for approximately 19% of our revenue in 2008, 2009 and 2010. The loss of Thomson Reuters or any of our other key clients, including our clients in the financial sector, due to the acquisition of such clients, their financial failure or bankruptcy, adverse economic or other reasons, or a considerable reduction in the amount of our services that these clients purchase, could materially reduce our revenues which, to the extent not offset by cost reductions or revenue from new or other existing clients, could materially reduce our cash flows and adversely affect our financial position. This may limit our ability to raise capital or fund our operations, working capital needs and capital expenditures in the future. Bidding for and obtaining contracts to provide services to government and quasi-government entities imposes restrictions and costs on our business not present in our non-government client contracts. We have sought and plan to continue to seek to provide our services to governments and government agencies, including the U.S. government. Bidding for government contracts can involve costs not present in seeking non-government contracts, such as costs associated with obtaining various levels of security clearances in compliance with applicable requirements. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient revenue from government contracts to offset these costs, our ability to generate a profit could suffer. If we are able to contract to provide services to a government or government agency, we may not be able to do so on favorable terms, and doing so may subject us to otherwise inapplicable regulation. Such contracts are typically subject to more onerous conditions than our contracts with non-government clients, including limited durations, profit, pricing and cost controls, modification or termination without cost and on short or no notice. In some cases, such contracts are subject to the contracting agency or entity obtaining appropriations or funding, which may not materialize. Breach of government contract terms or applicable regulations and requirements could lead to contract modification or termination, the assessment of penalties and fines and/or suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time or permanently, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. For contracts involving classified information, any breach of security could make us ineligible to work on any future classified programs and subject us to penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition. Our operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain peering arrangements with Internet Service Providers on favorable terms. We enter into peering agreements with Internet Service Providers throughout our market which allow us to access the Internet and exchange traffic transparently with these providers. Previously, many providers agreed to exchange traffic without charging each other. However, some providers that previously offered peering transparency have reduced peering relationships or are seeking to impose charges for transit, especially for unbalanced traffic offered and received by us with these peering partners. For example, several network operators with large numbers of individual users claim that they should be able to charge network operators and businesses that send traffic to those users. Additionally, actions by government and regulatory authorities to adopt rules that would govern agreements we have with Internet Service Providers or other network operators, including those with respect to net neutrality, could impair or limit our ability to manage our network resources. Increases in costs associated with Internet and exchange traffic could have an adverse effect on our business. If we are not able to maintain our peering relationships on favorable terms, we may not be able to provide our clients with affordable services, which would adversely affect our results from operations. 14 Table of Contents Failures in our products or services, including our network, hosting and colocation services, could disrupt our ability to provide services, increase our capital costs, result in a loss of clients or otherwise negatively affect our business. Our ability to implement our business plan successfully depends upon our ability to provide high quality, reliable services. Interruptions in our ability to provide our services to our clients or failures in our products or services, through the occurrence of a natural disaster, human error, component or system failure, extreme temperature or other unanticipated problem, could adversely affect our clients’ businesses and our business and reputation. Additionally, expansions and developments in the products and services that we offer, including in particular advanced offerings such as cloud services, could increasingly add a measure of complexity that may overburden our data center and network resources and human capital, making service interruptions or failures more likely. For example, problems at one or more of our data center facilities could result in service interruptions or failures or could cause significant equipment damage. In addition, our network could be subject to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other disruptive problems caused by clients, employees or others. Unauthorized access, computer viruses or other disruptive problems could lead to interruptions, delays or cessation of service to our clients. In addition, we may be unable to implement disaster recovery or security measures in a timely manner or, if and when implemented, these measures may not be sufficient or could be circumvented through the reoccurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem, or as a result of accidental or intentional actions. Resolving network failures or alleviating security problems may also require interruptions, delays or cessation of service to our clients. Accordingly, failures in our products and services, including problems at our data centers, network interruptions or breaches of security on our network may result in significant liability, penalties, a loss of clients and damage to our reputation. Our operations may be harmed and we could be subject to regulatory penalties and litigation if our network security is breached by unauthorized third parties. If unauthorized third parties breach the security measures on our network, we could be subject to liability and could face reduced client confidence in our services. Unauthorized access could also potentially jeopardize the security of confidential information of our clients or our clients’ end-users, which might expose us to liability from clients and the government agencies that regulate us, including under an increasing number of information security and privacy laws, as well as deter potential clients from purchasing our services. Any internal or external breach in our network could severely harm our business and result in costly litigation and potential liability for us. Although we attempt to limit these risks contractually, there can be no assurance that we will limit the risk or avoid incurring financial penalties. To the extent our clients demand that we accept unlimited liability and to the extent there is a competitive trend to accept it, such a trend could affect our ability to retain these limitations in our contracts at the risk of losing the business. Increased energy costs, power outages and limited availability of electrical resources may adversely affect our operating results. Our data centers are susceptible to regional costs and supply of power and electrical power outages. We attempt to limit exposure to system downtime by using backup generators and power supplies. However, we may not be able to limit our exposure entirely even with these protections in place. In addition, our energy costs can fluctuate significantly or increase for a variety of reasons including increased pressure on legislators to pass green legislation. As energy costs increase, we may not always be able to pass on the increased costs of energy to our clients, which could harm our business. Power and cooling requirements at our data centers are also increasing as a result of the increasing power demands of today’s servers. Since we rely on third parties to provide our data centers with power sufficient to meet our clients’ power needs, our data centers could have a limited or inadequate amount of electrical resources. Our clients’ demand for power may also exceed the power capacity in our older data centers, which may limit our ability to fully utilize these data centers. This could adversely affect our relationships with our clients and hinder our ability to run our data centers, which could harm our business. Concerns about the environmental impacts of greenhouse gas emissions and the global climate change may result in environmental taxes, charges, regulatory schemes, assessments or penalties, which could restrict or negatively impact our operations or reduce our profitability. The impacts of human activity on global climate change have attracted considerable public and scientific attention, as well as the attention of the United States and other governments. Efforts are being made to reduce greenhouse emissions and energy consumption, including those from coal combustion by power plants. We rely on power from these power plants, and the added cost of any environmental regulation, taxes, charges, assessments or penalties levied or imposed on these power plants could be passed on to us, increasing the cost to run our data centers and reducing our profitability. There are a number of state and federal legislative and environmental regulatory initiatives, as well as those internationally, that could restrict or negatively impact our operations or increase our energy costs. Additionally, environmental regulation, taxes, charges, assessments or penalties could be levied or imposed directly on us. Any enactment of laws or passage of regulations regarding greenhouse gas emissions by the United States, or any domestic or foreign jurisdiction we perform business in, could adversely effect our operations and financial results. 15 Table of Contents If we are unable to recruit or retain qualified personnel, our business could be harmed. We must continue to identify, hire, train and retain IT professionals, technical engineers, operations employees, and sales and senior management personnel who maintain relationships with our clients and who can provide the technical, strategic and marketing skills required for our company to grow. There is a shortage of qualified personnel in these fields, and we compete with other companies for the limited pool of these personnel. The failure to recruit and retain necessary technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel, including but not limited to members of our executive team, could harm our business and our ability to grow our company. Our failure to implement our growth strategy successfully could harm our business. Our growth strategy includes increasing revenue from our managed hosting, colocation and network services. We seek to sell managed hosting, colocation and network services to our clients, thereby strengthening the client relationship. While initially clients may only purchase one or two services, we believe that once the client sees the benefit of our infrastructure offerings to their business they will purchase additional services. We have developed new data center capabilities as part of our growth strategy. If we do not have sufficient client demand in the markets to support the new data centers we have built, our financial results may be harmed. There is no assurance that we will be able to implement these initiatives in a timely or cost effective manner, and this failure to implement our growth strategy could cause our operations and financial results to be negatively affected. We have agreed to certain indemnification obligations which, if we are required to perform, may negatively affect our operations. In connection with our sale of the assets related to our content delivery network, we agreed to indemnify the purchaser for certain losses that it may incur due to a breach of our representations and warranties. If we are required to perform such obligations should they arise, any actions we are required to take or payments we are required to make could harm our operations and prevent us from being able to engage in favorable business activities, consummate strategic acquisitions or otherwise fund capital needs. We may be liable for the material that content providers distribute over our network. The law relating to the liability of private network operators for information carried on, stored or disseminated through their networks is still unsettled. We may become subject to legal claims relating to the content disseminated on our network. For example, lawsuits may be brought against us claiming that material on our network on which someone relied was inaccurate. Claims could also involve matters such as defamation, invasion of privacy and copyright infringement. If we need to take costly measures to reduce our exposure to these risks, or are required to defend ourselves against such claims, our financial results could be negatively affected. Difficulties presented by international economic, political, legal, accounting, tax and business factors could harm our business in international markets. For the year ended December 31, 2010, 21% of our total revenue was generated in countries outside of the United States. Some risks inherent in conducting business internationally include: • regulatory, tax, licensing, political or other business restrictions or requirements; • longer payment cycles and problems collecting accounts receivable; • uncertain regulations; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • our ability to secure and maintain the necessary physical and telecommunications infrastructure; • challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • more restrictive laws or regulations, or more restrictive interpretations of existing laws or regulations, such as those related to content distributed over the Internet. Any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business. 16 Table of Contents Our inability to renew our data center leases, or renew on favorable terms, could have a negative impact on our financial results. All of our data centers are leased and have lease terms that expire between 2011 and 2031. The majority of these leases provide us with the opportunity to renew the lease at our option for periods generally ranging from five to ten years. Many of these options however, if renewed, provide that rent for the renewal period will be equal to the fair market rental rate at the time of renewal. If the fair market rental rates are significantly higher than our current rental rates, we may be unable to offset these costs by charging more for our services, which could have a negative impact on our financial results. Additionally, the terms of a renewal may cause different accounting treatment for a lease, which could cause changes to our total debt position and have an adverse impact on our reported financial position or debt covenants. Also, it is possible that a landlord may insist on other financially unfavorable renewal terms or, where no further option to renew exists, elect not to renew all together. Our right to undisturbed use of our leased data centers may be challenged if our landlords’ lenders exercise their rights due to our landlords’ default on their debt. We lease the land and buildings which support our data centers. Continued economic degradation may negatively impact and create greater pressure in the commercial real estate market causing higher incidences of landlord default or lender foreclosure of properties, including perhaps the properties which support our data centers. While in most cases we maintain certain non-disturbance rights, it is not certain that such rights will in all cases be upheld, thereby jeopardizing our continued right of occupancy in such instances. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely upon a combination of internal and external nondisclosure safeguards including confidentiality agreements, as well as trade secret and other intellectual property laws and vehicles to protect our proprietary rights. We cannot, however, assure that the steps taken by us in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. We also are subject to the risk of litigation alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Any such claims could require us to spend significant sums in litigation, pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property or acquire licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of the alleged infringement. Our investment portfolio is subject to market fluctuations which may affect our liquidity. Historically, we have invested in AAA-rated U.S. government agencies, AAA-rated money market funds meeting certain criteria, and A1/P1 rated commercial paper. The market value of these investments may decline due to general credit, liquidity, market, interest rate and issuer default risks, which subject us to the risk of declines in the market values of our investments in the future that could result in an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry The markets for our hosting, network and professional services are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively. The markets for our hosting, network and professional services are extremely competitive. We expect that competition will intensify in the future, and we may not have the financial resources, technical expertise, sales and marketing abilities or support capabilities to compete successfully in these markets. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger client bases and greater market presence, lower costs of capital, and greater engineering and marketing capabilities and financial, technological and personnel resources than we do. As a result, as compared to us, our competitors may: • develop and expand their networking infrastructures and service offerings more efficiently or more quickly; • adapt more rapidly to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements; • take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more effectively; • develop products and services that are superior to ours or have greater market acceptance; • adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the promotion, marketing, sale, research and development of their products and services; • make more attractive price and performance offers to our existing and potential employees; • establish cooperative relationships with each other or with third parties; and • take advantage of existing relationships with clients more effectively or exploit their more widely recognized brand name to market and sell their services. Recent industry consolidation may increase the competitive advantages noted above. If we are unable to compete effectively, this could result in an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. If the markets for outsourced information technology services decline, there may be insufficient demand for our services and, as a result, our business strategy and objectives may fail. Our solutions are designed to enable a client to focus on its core business while we manage and ensure the quality of its information technology, or IT, infrastructure. Businesses may believe the risk of outsourcing is greater than the risk of managing their IT operations themselves. If businesses do not continue to recognize the high cost and inefficiency of managing IT themselves, including the difficulties of upgrading technology, training and retaining skilled personnel with domain expertise, and matching IT cost with actual benefits, they may not continue to outsource their IT infrastructure to companies within our industry. Additionally, outsourcing may be associated with larger companies, such as HP and IBM, and we may not be as successful as these companies. As a result of these risks, our business may suffer and it could adversely affect our business strategy and objectives and our ability to generate revenues. Our failure to achieve desired price levels could affect our ability to achieve profitability or positive cash flow. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience pricing pressure for some of the services that we offer. Prices for Internet services have decreased in recent years and may decline in the future. Colocation prices have stabilized throughout the past year; however, this stabilization may be challenged in the future as large wholesale vendors enter the enterprise colocation market. In addition, by bundling their services and reducing the overall cost of their services, telecommunications companies that compete with us may be able to provide clients with reduced communications costs in connection with their hosting, data networking or Internet access services, thereby significantly increasing pricing pressure on us. We may not be able to offset the effects of any such price reductions even with an increase in the number of our clients, higher revenues from enhanced services, cost reductions or otherwise. In addition, we believe that the data networking and VPN and Internet access and hosting industries are likely to continue to encounter consolidation which could result in greater efficiencies in the future. Increased price competition or consolidation in these markets could result in erosion of our revenues and operating margins and could have a negative impact on our profitability. Furthermore, larger consolidated telecommunications providers have indicated that they want to start billing companies delivering services over the Internet a premium charge for priority access to connected clients. If these providers are able to charge companies such as us for this, our costs will increase, and this could affect our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents New technologies could displace our services or render them obsolete. New technologies or industry standards, including those technologies protected by intellectual property rights, have the potential to replace or provide lower cost alternatives to our hosting, networking and Internet access services. The adoption of such new technologies or industry standards could render our data center technology and services obsolete, unmarketable, cause impairment of our existing assets, or require us to incur significant capital expenditures to expand and upgrade our technology to meet new standards. In addition, government regulation may adversely affect the demand for hosting services. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify new service opportunities successfully or, if identified, be able to develop and bring new products and services to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, we cannot guarantee that services or technologies developed by others will not render our current and future services non-competitive or obsolete or that our current and future services will achieve or sustain market acceptance or be able to effectively address the compatibility and interoperability issues raised by technological changes or new industry standards. If we fail to anticipate the emergence of, or obtain access to, a new technology or industry standard, we may incur increased costs if we seek to use those technologies and standards, or our competitors that use such technologies and standards may use them more cost-effectively than we do. The data networking and Internet access industries are highly regulated in many of the countries in which we currently operate or plan to provide services, which could restrict our ability to conduct business in the United States and internationally. We are subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we provide services. Local laws and regulations, and their interpretation and enforcement, differ significantly among those jurisdictions, and can change significantly over time. Future regulatory, judicial and legislative changes or interpretations may have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver services within various jurisdictions. For example, the European Union enacted a data retention system that, once implemented by individual member states, will involve requirements to retain certain IP data that could have an impact on our operations in Europe. Moreover, national regulatory frameworks that are consistent with the policies and requirements of the World Trade Organization have only recently been, or are still being, put in place in many countries. Accordingly, many countries are still in the early stages of providing for and adapting to a liberalized telecommunications market. As a result, in these markets we may encounter more protracted and difficult procedures to obtain licenses. Within the United States, the government continues to evaluate the data networking and Internet access industries. The Federal Communications Commission has a number of on-going proceedings that could affect our ability to provide services or to charge certain fees. Such regulations and policies may complicate, or make more costly or less profitable, our efforts to provide services in the future. Additionally, changing regulations or regulatory interpretations may cause regulated providers to increase the costs of certain services that we purchase. Our operations are dependent on licenses and authorizations from governmental authorities in many of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate or plan to operate, and with respect to a limited number of our services, in the United States. These licenses and authorizations generally will contain clauses pursuant to which we may be fined or our license may be revoked on short notice. Consequently, we may not be able to obtain or retain the licenses necessary for our operations or be able to retain these licenses at costs which allow us to compete effectively. A number of our clients are banks, brokerage firms, investment managers, operators of exchanges or trading systems and other participants in the financial services industry. As a service provider to some of these entities, we currently are subject to regulation and examination by regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our clients and could in the future become subject to further requirements. Future legislation could subject us to expanded regulation if enacted. More aggressive use of current regulatory powers or the implementation of new regulatory regimes could increase our operating costs, subject us to potential penalties or affect our ability to continue serving the financial services market. In addition, securities trading operations of some securities firms, involving placing servers or leasing server space in the same location at or proximate to exchange facilities, have drawn increased public and regulatory scrutiny and are among the subjects of a broad review of equity market structure recently announced by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Rulemaking that arises from that review or otherwise could affect the cost, attractiveness or permissibility of certain of our services in ways that we cannot currently predict but that may have an adverse affect on our business, revenue and profitability. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Sales of a significant amount of our common stock in the public market could reduce our stock price or impair our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. We have approximately 57.0 million shares of common stock outstanding, the majority of which is held by a small number of investment firms, including Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe, or Welsh Carson. As of February 23, 2011, investment partnerships sponsored by Welsh Carson own approximately 18% of our outstanding common stock, and since December 2006, Welsh Carson has distributed over 17.1 million shares of our common stock to its limited partners. These shares may and some have been sold in the public market immediately following such distributions. Also, as of February 23, 2011, Welsh Carson and individuals affiliated with Welsh Carson are entitled to certain registration rights with respect to 14.2 million shares of our common stock held by them. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, including sales following Welsh Carson distributions or the perception that either of those sales will occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Those sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity and equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we consider appropriate. 19 Table of Contents Our stock price is subject to significant volatility. Since February 1, 2010, until the present, the closing price per share of our common stock has ranged from a high of $36.29 per share to a low of $14.09 per share. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, subject to significant volatility due to conditions in the technology industry or in the financial markets generally, sales of our securities by significant stockholders and the other risks and uncertainties described or incorporated by reference herein. Our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law contain provisions which may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, including provisions that give the Board of Directors the power to issue shares of preferred stock. We have also chosen to be subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to certain exceptions, prevents a stockholder of more than 15% of a company’s voting stock from entering into business combinations set forth under Section 203 with that company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. As of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, there were no unresolved comments from the Staff of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. 