Item 1A. Risk Factors Historical performance may not be indicative of future performance and, as noted elsewhere in this report, the Company has included forward-looking statements about its business, plans and prospects that are subject to change. Forward-looking statements are particularly located in, but not limited to, the sections Item 1 – Business and Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. In addition 5 Table of Contents to the other risks or uncertainties contained in this report, the following risks may affect operating results, financial condition and cash flows. If any of these risks occur, either alone or in combination with other factors, the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. Moreover, readers should note this is not an exhaustive list; that some risks are unknown or not quantifiable, and other risks that are currently perceived as immaterial may ultimately prove more significant than expected. Statements about plans, predictions or expectations should not be construed to be assurances of performance or promises to take a given course of action. Adequacy of the Allowance for Loan Losses. The Company has established a reserve for possible losses expected in connection with loans in the credit portfolio. This allowance reflects estimates of the collectibility of certain identified loans, as well as an overall risk assessment of total loans outstanding. The determination of the amount of loan loss allowance is subjective; although the method for determining the amount of the allowance uses criteria such as risk ratings and historical loss rates, these factors may not be adequate predictors of future loan performance. Accordingly, the Company cannot offer assurances that these estimates ultimately will prove correct or that the loan loss allowance will be sufficient to protect against losses that ultimately may occur. If the loan loss allowance proves to be inadequate, it may require unexpected charges to income, which would adversely impact results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, bank regulators frequently monitor banks’ loan loss allowances, and if regulators were to determine that the allowance was inadequate, they may require the Company to increase the allowance, which also would adversely impact revenues and financial condition. Growth and Management. Financial performance and profitability will depend on the Company’s ability to manage recent growth and successful completion of the previously announced merger with Frontier Financial Corporation is a key factor in potential future growth. In addition, if the merger is not completed that could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to execute a growth strategy or maintain the level of profitability that it has achieved in the past. Changes in Market Interest Rates. The Company’s earnings are impacted by changing interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the demand for new loans, the credit profile of existing loans, the rates received on loans and securities, and rates paid on deposits and borrowings. The relationship between the rates received on loans and securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings is known as the net interest spread. Based on the Company’s current volume and mix of interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning assets, net interest spread could be expected to increase during times when interest rates rise in a parallel shift along the yield curve and, conversely, to decline during times of similar falling interest rates. Exposure to interest rate risk is managed by monitoring the re-pricing frequency of rate-sensitive assets and rate-sensitive liabilities over any given period. Although management believes the current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable, significant fluctuations in interest rates could potentially have an adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity. Liquidity measures the ability to meet loan demand and deposit withdrawals and to service liabilities as they come due. Dramatic fluctuations in loan or deposit balances make it challenging to manage liquidity. A sharp reduction in deposits could force the Company to borrow heavily in the wholesale deposit market. In addition, rapid loan growth during periods of low liquidity could induce the Company to purchase federal funds from correspondent banks, borrow at the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle or Federal Reserve discount window, raise deposit interest rates and/or decline loans. Geographic Concentration. Substantially, all of the Company’s business is derived from a five-county area in northwest Washington State. Employment opportunities within these communities have traditionally been primarily in the areas of military spending, oil and gas industries, tourism and manufacturing. While the Company’s expansion strategy has been built around these growing and diverse geographic markets, the Company’s business is, and will remain, sensitive to economic factors that relate to these industries and to local and regional business conditions. As a result, local or regional economic downturns, or downturns that disproportionately affect one or more of the key industries in the Company’s markets, may have a more pronounced effect upon it’s business than they might on an institution that is more broadly diverse in geographic concentration. The extent of the future impact of these events on economic and business conditions cannot be predicted; however, prolonged or acute 6 Table of Contents fluctuations could have a material and adverse impact upon the Company’s results of operation and financial condition. Regulation. The Company is subject to government regulation that could limit or restrict it’s activities, which in turn could adversely impact operations. The financial services industry is regulated extensively. Federal and state regulation is designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, as well as shareholders. These regulations can sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. Moreover, federal and state banking laws and regulations undergo frequent, significant changes. Changes in laws and regulations may affect the cost of doing business, limit permissible activities (including insurance and securities activities), or the Company’s competitive position in relation to credit unions, savings associations and other financial institutions. These changes could also reduce federal deposit insurance coverage, broaden the powers or geographic range of financial holding companies, alter the taxation of financial institutions and change the structure and jurisdiction of various regulatory agencies. Federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, can significantly affect credit availability. Other federal legislation such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act can dramatically shift resources and costs to ensure adequate compliance. Competition. Competition may adversely affect the Company’s performance. The financial services business is becoming increasingly competitive due to changes in regulation, technological advances, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. The Company faces competition both in attracting deposits and in originating loans. Competition for loan’s principally through the pricing of interest rates and loan fees, and the efficiency and quality of services. Increasing levels of competition in the banking and financial services industries may reduce market share or cause the prices charged for services to fall. Results may differ in future periods depending upon the nature or level of competition. Credit Risk. A source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained if a significant number of borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The Company has adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for credit losses, which management believes are appropriate to minimize risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying the credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially affect results of operations. Merger with Frontier. Our management has expended substantial time and effort in negotiating the merger agreement and the related arrangements connected with the merger with Frontier. Moreover, the board of directors has agreed to certain arrangements intended to avert any unsolicited attempt to gain control of the Company during the pendency of this transaction, including certain breakup fees and expense reimbursements. Additionally, the merger reflects a substantial aspect of management’s strategic planning for the Company’s future. Were the merger with Frontier not to be consummated, the Company would be forced to make substantial adjustments in its strategic plans, which would require additional management time and effort and which might not be successful. Therefore, if the merger with Frontier is not consummated, the Company may experience adverse impacts on its strategic direction and its operating capabilities, and these impacts may be material. Finally, the termination or abandonment of the merger with Frontier may have an adverse impact upon investors’ views as to the attractiveness of the Company’s common stock, which may result in a reduced market price for the Company’s common stock, and such reduction may be material. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company had no unresolved staff comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 