Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties. Lionbridge’s actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including, without limitation, those set forth in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating Lionbridge and its business. Unfavorable conditions in the United States and global economies may adversely affect demand for Lionbridge’s services, which would in turn, adversely affect future revenues and operating results. As demand for Lionbridge’s services is sensitive to changes in the level of economic activity, its business may suffer during an economic downturn or recession. As economic activity begins to slow down, companies may cancel or delay projects or engagements, resulting in decreased demand for our services. Significant declines in demand, or delays in project engagements, would result in lower revenues and impact the timing of revenues, as well as adversely affect profitability. More generally, the current unfavorable changes in global economic conditions, including recession, inflation, fluctuating energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the U.S., have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy and expectations of slower global economic growth going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown including a recession. If the economic climate in the U.S. or abroad does not improve from its current condition or continues to deteriorate, there could be a continuation of the negative impact on business and customer spending patterns. More specifically, Lionbridge’s customers or potential customers may cancel, reduce or delay their purchases of our services or payment for such services, which would adversely impact our revenues, collections of customer receivables and ultimately our profitability. Current tightening of credit in financial markets also adversely affects the ability of customers to obtain financing for their operations and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for Lionbridge’s services. There is no assurance that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore business and consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. In addition, during economic downturns companies may slow the rate at which they pay their vendors or become unable to pay their debts as they become due. If any of our significant clients do not pay amounts owed to us in a timely manner or becomes unable to pay such amounts to us at a time when we have substantial amounts receivable from such client, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase, and in turn our cash flow and profitability may suffer. Despite the disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy or restructuring of certain financial institutions, the Company believes the lenders participating in its revolving credit facility will be 10 Table of Contents willing and able to provide financing in accordance with their contractual obligations. However, the current economic environment may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit in the future and may potentially reduce the sources of liquidity for the Company. The Company cannot predict when global economic conditions will begin to recover or when and to what extent conditions affecting our customers will improve. Also, the Company cannot ensure that the actions it has taken or may take in the future in response to these global economic conditions will be successful or that the Company’s business financial condition or results of operations will not continue to be adversely impacted by these conditions. A large portion of Lionbridge’s revenue is derived from a relatively small number of large clients and the delay or reduction of its clients’ product releases and production schedules or the loss of, or reduction in revenue from, a major client could negatively affect Lionbridge’s revenue and results of operations. A significant portion of Lionbridge’s revenue is linked to the product release cycles and production schedules of its clients, and, in particular, to certain key clients. The concentration of Lionbridge’s revenue among these key clients may increase revenue in the future. As a result, Lionbridge performs varying amounts of work for specific clients from year-to-year based on their product release cycles and production schedules. A major client in one year may not have use for a similar level of Lionbridge’s services in another year. In addition, Lionbridge derives a significant portion of its revenues from large projects and programs for a limited number of large clients. Moreover, our customers are also impacted by the global economic downturn and have experienced adverse business and financial conditions that may affect their need for our services. While our strategy of focusing on serving large enterprises is intended to enable us to increase our revenues from large corporate customers, this strategy also exposes us to increased risks arising from the possible loss of major customer accounts. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, Lionbridge’s largest client accounted for 20% and 21% of its revenue, respectively, and its five largest clients accounted for approximately 43% of its revenue. As a result, the loss of any major client or a significant reduction in a large project’s scope could materially reduce Lionbridge’s revenue and cash flow, and adversely affect its ability to maintain profitability. The Interpretation segment is heavily dependent on one U.S. government contract which if not renewed, may adversely affect the continued operations of Interpretation business. Approximately 63% of the revenue associated with the Interpretation segment during the year ended December 31, 2008 is derived from one large contract with the U.S. government. The term of that contract expires in May 2009. The Company is engaged in a federal procurement process associated with the renewal of this contract; however, there is no assurance that this contract will be awarded to the Company. If the contract is not awarded to the Company and such revenues are not replaced with other contracts, the Company’s revenues both with respect to the Interpretation segment and as a whole may be reduced significantly. Fluctuations in the mix of customer demand for the Company’s various types of service offerings could impact Lionbridge’s financial performance and impact Lionbridge’s ability to forecast performance. Customer demand for the range of the Company’s service offerings varies from time to time and is not predictable, due to fluctuations in customer needs, changes in the customer industries, the current economic recession and general economic conditions. As a result, the mix of services provided by Lionbridge to its customers varies at any given time, both within a quarter and from quarter-to-quarter. These variations in service mix impact gross margins and the predictability of gross margins for any period. Therefore, Lionbridge believes that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of its results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. You should not rely on the results of any one quarter as an indication of Lionbridge’s future performance. Lionbridge may not experience profitability or margin increases in future years comparable to those experienced in some prior years. 11 Table of Contents There have been quarters in the past in which Lionbridge’s results of operations have fallen below the expectations of securities analysts and investors and this may occur in the future. If in a future quarter Lionbridge’s results of operations were to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of its common stock would likely decline. While Lionbridge is in compliance with the covenants under its revolving credit facility, its failure to comply with these covenants in the future could trigger a default under that facility if not cured. Lionbridge’s failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants under its revolving credit agreement could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the Company being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. The ongoing instability in worldwide economic conditions is likely to continue to adversely impact demand for the Company’s services by its existing and prospective customers, which could negatively impact Lionbridge’s future revenues, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Under such circumstances, it could be more difficult for the Company to continue to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants under its revolving credit agreement. There is no guarantee that the Company would be able to refinance these borrowings and the failure to refinance would have an adverse affect on the Company’s cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. If the Company is forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms, its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by increased costs, rates and terms. Potential fluctuations in Lionbridge’s quarterly results make financial forecasting difficult and could affect its common stock trading price. As a result of fluctuations in Lionbridge’s revenues tied to foreign currency fluctuations, its clients’ activities and release cycles, customer and vendor pricing pressures, the three-to nine-month length of its typical sales cycle, historical growth, the global economic recession, acquisition activity, the emerging nature of the markets in which it competes, global economic conditions and other factors outside its control, Lionbridge believes that financial forecasting is difficult and quarter-to-quarter comparisons of its results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. You should not rely on the results of any one quarter as an indication of Lionbridge’s future performance. Lionbridge may not experience revenue increases in future years comparable to the revenue increases in some prior years. There have been quarters in the past in which Lionbridge’s results of operations have fallen below the expectations of securities analysts and investors and this may occur in the future. If in a future quarter Lionbridge’s results of operations were to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of its common stock would likely decline. Lionbridge may be unable to continue to grow at its historical growth rates or to manage its growth effectively. Growth is a key component of increasing the value of Lionbridge. Since its inception, Lionbridge’s business has grown significantly and it anticipates additional future growth. Lionbridge has focused some of its expansion efforts on leveraging its solution centers in India, China, Poland and Slovakia while concurrently restructuring certain western European and U.S. operations. This realignment has placed and may continue to place significant demands on management and Lionbridge’s operational resources. In order to manage growth effectively, Lionbridge must continue to evolve its operational systems. Additional growth may further strain Lionbridge’s management and operational resources. As a result of these concerns, Lionbridge cannot be sure that it will continue to grow, or, if it does grow, that it will be able to maintain its overall historical growth rate. Lionbridge’s results of operations could be negatively affected by potential fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Lionbridge conducts a large portion of its business in international markets. Although a majority of Lionbridge’s contracts with clients are denominated in U.S. dollars, 56% (71% excluding the $120.6 million goodwill impairment charge) and 71% of its costs and expenses for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 12 Table of Contents 2007, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, 18% and 15% of the Company’s consolidated tangible assets were subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuations as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, while 8% of its consolidated liabilities were exposed to foreign currency exchange fluctuations as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. In addition, net inter-company balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the respective entity were approximately $27.4 million and $100.0 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The principal foreign currency applicable to our business is the Euro. Management has a hedging program in place to partially hedge its exposure to assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the respective entity. Management regularly reviews the hedging program and will make adjustments as necessary, including suspending or accelerating hedging activities based on its judgment of the efficacy of such programs under anticipated market and economic conditions. Lionbridge’s hedging activities may not prove favorable or effective against the adverse impact resulting from unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Lionbridge may not realize the anticipated benefits of current or future cost reduction and restructuring initiatives. Lionbridge has initiated and will continue to implement cost reduction actions to improve its operating cost structure, reduce overhead and better position itself competitively. These cost reduction initiatives include measures designed to better align operating expenses with expected revenue levels, resource reallocations, head count reductions and technology deployments. The timing and implementation of cost reduction initiatives is dependent upon a number of factors, including customer needs and transition requirements, local statutory and regulatory requirements, and economic conditions. Cost reduction initiatives could result in current period charges and expenses that could impact Lionbridge’s operating results and anticipated benefits may be negatively impacted by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Lionbridge cannot guarantee that these measures, or other expense reduction measures we take in the future, will result in the expected cost savings. In connection with these cost reduction actions, Lionbridge may engage in restructuring actions and incur restructuring charges for actions undertaken in any particular quarter. In connection with determining the size and scope of any such restructuring charge, management will be required to make significant estimates related to expenses for severance and other employee separation costs, lease cancellation and other exit costs, and estimates of future rental income that may be generated through the subleasing of excess leased property. Should the actual amounts differ from our estimates, the amount of the restructuring charges could be materially impacted. Lionbridge may be exposed to employment-related claims and costs that could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Lionbridge engages resources in multiple countries worldwide and from time-to-time place them in workplaces of its customers. Lionbridge also may engage in redundancy or other reduction in force actions in light of any decline in demand for its services due to global economic conditions. Risks related to these activities include: — Claims arising out of the actions or inactions of our personnel; — Claims of discrimination or harassment; — Classification of employees as independent contractors and payment of workers’ compensation claims and other similar claims, including matters for which we may have indemnified a customer; — Violations of wage and hour requirements; — Retroactive entitlement to employment benefits; — Errors and omissions by our personnel; and — Claims by our customers relating to our personnel misusing customer proprietary information, or other similar claims. 13 Table of Contents Lionbridge may incur fines and other losses or negative publicity with respect to these problems. In addition, some or all of these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming to its management team and costly and have a negative impact on its business. Lionbridge cannot assure you that it will not experience these problems in the future. Lionbridge cannot assure you that its insurance will be sufficient in amount or scope to cover all claims that maybe asserted against the Company. Should the ultimate judgments and settlements exceed its insurance coverage, it could have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Lionbridge cannot assure you that it will be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future. Lionbridge’s financial performance may be impacted by its ability to transition service execution to its lower cost operational sites, the timing of such transition, and customer acceptance of such transition. Lionbridge’s business strategy includes the transition of customer service execution to its global delivery centers located in India, China, Poland and Slovakia. The rate at which such services may be transitioned and the timing of any transition is difficult to predict and is dependent on customer demand for such services and customer acceptance of such any such transition. Accordingly, changes in the location of service execution may not produce the anticipated financial benefit and the Company may not realize the anticipated benefits of service execution in its Global Delivery Centers to the extent anticipated, or as rapidly as anticipated, all of which could adversely affect Lionbridge’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Lionbridge may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions and integration of these acquisitions may interrupt the Company’s business and management. Lionbridge has made significant acquisitions in the past and expects to continue to make acquisitions as part of its long-term business strategy. Lionbridge may not realize the anticipated benefits of this or any other acquisition, or Lionbridge may not realize the anticipated benefits as quickly as originally anticipated. In particular, the process of integrating acquired companies into the Company’s existing business may result in unforeseen difficulties and delays. These risks include: — difficulty in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; — difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration; — difficulty in integrating the acquired company’s accounting, financial reporting systems, human resources and other administrative systems; and — delays or difficulty to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses on the original timetable. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky and if Lionbridge does not fully complete the integration of acquired businesses successfully and in a timely manner, the Company may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions to the extent anticipated, or as rapidly as anticipated, which could adversely affect Lionbridge’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Pursuing and completing potential acquisitions could divert management attention and financial resources and may not produce the desired business results. As part of its growth strategy, Lionbridge intends to continue pursuing and making selected acquisitions of complementary businesses. Lionbridge does not have specific personnel dedicated solely to pursuing and making acquisitions. As a result, if Lionbridge pursues any acquisition, its management, in addition to their operational responsibilities, could spend a significant amount of time and management and financial resources to pursue and integrate the acquired business with its existing business. To fund the purchase price of an acquisition, Lionbridge might use capital stock, cash or a combination of both. Alternatively, Lionbridge may borrow money from a bank or other lender. If it uses capital stock, Lionbridge’s stockholders will experience dilution. If it uses 14 Table of Contents cash or debt financing, Lionbridge’s financial liquidity may be reduced. In addition, from an accounting perspective, an acquisition may involve amortization of significant amounts of other intangible assets that could adversely affect Lionbridge’s ability to maintain profitability. Despite the investment of these management and financial resources, an acquisition may not produce the revenue, earnings or business synergies that Lionbridge anticipated or may produce such synergies less rapidly than anticipated for a variety of reasons, including: — difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, operational systems deployments, technologies, services, products and personnel of the acquired company; — failure of acquired technologies and services to perform as expected; — risks of entering markets in which Lionbridge has no, or limited, prior experience; — effects of any undisclosed or potential legal or tax liabilities of the acquired company; — compliance with additional laws, rules or regulations that Lionbridge may become subject to as a result of an acquisition that might restrict Lionbridge’s ability to operate; and — the loss of key employees of the acquired company. Lionbridge may not be able to successfully address these problems. Lionbridge’s future operating results may depend to a significant degree on Lionbridge’s ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and manage operations while controlling expenses and cash outflows. Lionbridge may have difficulty in identifying and competing for acquisition opportunities. Lionbridge’s business strategy includes the pursuit of strategic acquisitions. While Lionbridge currently does not have commitments or agreements with respect to any acquisitions, it regularly explores potential acquisitions of strategically complementary businesses or operations. Lionbridge may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates and it can expect to face competition from other companies for potential acquisition candidates, making it more difficult to acquire suitable companies on favorable terms. Difficulties presented by international economic, political, legal, health, accounting and business factors could negatively affect Lionbridge’s business in international markets. Lionbridge conducts business and has operations and clients throughout the world. As a result, Lionbridge’s business is subject to political and economic fluctuations in various countries and to more cost-intensive social insurance and employment laws and regulations, particularly in Europe. In addition, as Lionbridge continues to employ and retain personnel throughout the world and to comply with various employment laws, it may face difficulties in integrating such personnel on a cost-efficient basis. In the U.S. and certain other countries, new employment and labor laws and regulations have been proposed or adopted that may increase the potential exposure of employers to employment-related claims and litigation. There can be no assurance that the corporate policies Lionbridge has in place to help reduce its exposure to these risks will be effective or that the Company will not experience losses as a result of these risks. As Lionbridge aligns its worldwide workforce, it may face difficulties and expense in reducing its workforce in certain high cost countries and regions, including Europe. To date, Lionbridge has been able to successfully staff its international operations, but if Lionbridge seeks to expand its operations, it may become more difficult to manage its international business. In addition, Lionbridge’s ability to engage individual interpreters and translators as contractors rather than employees may be impacted by changes in employment laws, regulations and interpretations in certain jurisdictions, which may expose Lionbridge to additional costs and expenses. In addition, compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to Lionbridge’s international operations increases the Company’s cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could expose the Company to fines or penalties. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include import and export requirements, trade restrictions, tax laws, 15 Table of Contents sanctions, data privacy requirements, labor laws, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws. Violations of these law and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions, prohibitions on the conduct of Lionbridge’s business and damage to the Company’s reputation. Although Lionbridge has implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, the Company cannot guarantee compliance. Any such violations could materially damage the Company’s reputation, its ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Lionbridge’s and its clients’ abilities to conduct business may also be affected by wars, political unrest, terrorism, natural disasters or the impact of diseases such as avian influenza. Furthermore, as a result of operating in international markets, Lionbridge is subject to longer payment cycles from many of its customers and may experience greater difficulties in timely accounts receivable collections. If Lionbridge fails to manage these operations successfully, its ability to service its clients and grow its business will be seriously impeded. Goodwill and other intangible assets represent a portion of Lionbridge’s assets; any impairment of Lionbridge’s goodwill or other intangible assets will adversely impact its net income. At December 31, 2008, Lionbridge had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $29.7 million, net of accumulated amortization, which represented approximately 16.1% of its total assets. Lionbridge’s goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis, and both goodwill and other intangible assets are also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that they may be impaired. Such events or conditions could include an economic downturn in the industries to which Lionbridge provides services, increased competition, an increase in operating or other costs, additional volatility in international currencies, the pace of technological improvements; or other information regarding Lionbridge’s market value, such as a reduction in stock price to a price near or below the book value of the Company for an extended period of time. Any excess goodwill resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. Lionbridge recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $120.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2008. Although the Company does not believe that an impairment of Lionbridge’s remaining goodwill or other intangible assets exists at this time, in the event that such a condition or event occurs, we may record additional charges which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If Lionbridge does not respond to future advances in technology and changes in customer demands, its business and results of operations may be adversely affected. The demand for Lionbridge’s services will be substantially affected, in large part, by future advances in technology and changes in customer demands. Lionbridge’s success will also depend on its ability to address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of its existing and prospective clients. Lionbridge cannot assure you that there will be a demand for its services in the future. Lionbridge’s success in servicing its clients will be largely dependent on its development of strategic business solutions and methodologies in response to technological advances and client preferences. For example, Lionbridge’s services are based on a hosted internet-based language technology platform, a core component of which is Lionbridge’s Logoport technology. Lionbridge’s business may be harmed by defects or errors in the services it provides to its clients. Many of the services Lionbridge provides are critical to its clients’ businesses. While Lionbridge maintains general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, defects or errors in the services it provides could interrupt its clients’ abilities to provide services to their end users resulting in delayed or lost client revenue. This could damage Lionbridge’s reputation through negative publicity, make it difficult to attract new, and retain existing customers and cause customers to terminate their contracts and seek damages. Lionbridge may incur additional costs to correct errors or defects. Lionbridge cannot assure you that its general liability and errors and omissions insurance coverage will be available in amounts sufficient to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claims. 16 Table of Contents Improper disclosure of employee and customer data could result in liability and harm Lionbridge’s reputation. From time to time, Lionbridge’s services involve the use, storage and transmission of personal data, including information of its employees and resources. Lionbridge and its third party service providers have established policies and procedures to help protect the security and privacy of this information. It is possible that the Company’s security controls over personal and other data and other practices the Company and its third party service providers follow may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable or otherwise confidential information. Such disclosure could harm Lionbridge’s reputation and subject the Company to liability under its contracts and laws that protect personal data and confidential information, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. Lionbridge’s failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to its reputation in the marketplace. Lionbridge competes in highly competitive markets. The markets for Lionbridge’s services are very competitive. Lionbridge cannot assure you that it will compete successfully against its competitors in the future. If Lionbridge fails to be competitive with these companies in the future, it may lose market share and its revenue could decline. There are relatively few barriers preventing companies from competing with Lionbridge. Although Lionbridge owns proprietary technology, Lionbridge does not own any patented or other technology that, by itself, precludes or inhibits others from entering its market. As a result, new market entrants also pose a threat to Lionbridge’s business. In addition to Lionbridge’s existing competitors, Lionbridge may face further competition in the future from companies that do not currently offer globalization or testing services. Lionbridge may also face competition from internal globalization and testing departments of its current and potential clients. Technology companies, information technology services companies, business process outsourcing companies, web consulting firms, technical support call centers, hosting companies and content management providers may choose to broaden their range of services to include globalization or testing as they expand their operations internationally. Lionbridge cannot assure you that it will be able to compete effectively with potential future competitors. Lionbridge will continue to depend on intellectual property rights to protect its proprietary technologies, although it may not be able to successfully protect these rights. Lionbridge relies on its proprietary technology to enhance some of its service offerings. Lionbridge’s policy is to enter into confidentiality agreements with its employees, outside consultants and independent contractors. Lionbridge also uses patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law in addition to contractual restrictions to protect its technology. Notwithstanding these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to obtain and use Lionbridge’s proprietary technology without authorization. Although Lionbridge holds registered or pending United States patents and foreign patents covering certain aspects of its technology, it cannot be sure of the level of protection that these patents will provide. Lionbridge may have to resort to litigation to enforce its intellectual property rights, to protect trade secrets or know-how, or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. Enforcing or defending its proprietary technology is expensive, could cause diversion of Lionbridge’s resources and may not prove successful. The laws of other countries may afford Lionbridge little or no effective protection of its intellectual property rights. 17 Table of Contents The intellectual property of Lionbridge’s customers may be damaged, misappropriated, stolen or lost while in Lionbridge’s possession, subjecting it to litigation and other adverse consequences. In the course of providing globalization and testing services to Lionbridge’s customers, Lionbridge takes possession of or is granted access to certain intellectual property of such customers, including unreleased versions of software and source code. In the event such intellectual property is damaged, misappropriated, stolen or lost, Lionbridge could suffer: — claims under indemnification provisions in customer agreements or other liability for damages; — delayed or lost revenue due to adverse customer reaction; — negative publicity; and — litigation that could be costly and time consuming. Lionbridge has an accumulated deficit and may not be able to continue to achieve operating profit. For the year ended December 31, 2008, Lionbridge incurred an operating loss of $114.2 million, which included a $120.6 million goodwill impairment charge. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Lionbridge achieved operating profits of $9.0 million, $15.0 million, and $1.3 million, respectively. Lionbridge achieved operating profits of $7.2 million and $7.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. However, prior to 2003, Lionbridge incurred substantial losses and may incur losses in the future. Lionbridge has an accumulated deficit of $231.4 million as of December 31, 2008. Lionbridge intends to continue to invest in internal expansion, infrastructure, select acquisitions and its sales and marketing efforts. Lionbridge cannot assure you that it will continue to achieve operating profits in the future or will generate net income in the future. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect Lionbridge’s effective tax rates. Lionbridge is subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining Lionbridge’s worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Lionbridge is subject to the continual examination by tax authorities in certain jurisdictions and the Company regularly assesses the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. Although Lionbridge believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than what is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals, and could result in a material effect on the Company’s income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. If additional taxes are assessed, the possibility exists for an adverse impact on Lionbridge’s financial results. In addition, unanticipated changes in Lionbridge’s tax rates could affect its future results of operations. Lionbridge’s future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in tax laws or the interpretation in tax laws, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenues in countries with low statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of the Company’s deferred tax assets or liabilities. Changes in accounting policies may affect Lionbridge’s reported earnings and operating income. Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations for many aspects of our business, including revenue recognition are highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules, their interpretation, or their application relative to changes in the Company’s services or business could significantly change Lionbridge’s reported earnings and could add significant volatility to these measures, without a comparable underlying change in cash 18 Table of Contents flow from operations. Lionbridge’s application of applicable accounting guidance involves interpretation and judgment, and may, as a result, delay the timing of revenue recognition or accelerate the costs associated with deferred revenue. If Lionbridge fails to hire and retain professional staff, its ability to obtain and complete its projects could suffer. Lionbridge’s potential failure to hire and retain qualified employees could impair its ability to complete existing projects and bid for or obtain new projects and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on its business and revenue. Lionbridge’s ability to grow and increase its market share largely depends on its ability to hire, train, retain and manage highly skilled employees, including project managers and technical, sales and marketing personnel. In addition, Lionbridge must ensure that its employees maintain their technical expertise and business skills. Lionbridge cannot assure you that it will be able to attract a sufficient number of qualified employees or that it will successfully train and manage the employees it hires to allow Lionbridge to carry out its operating plan. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 