Item 1A. Risk Factors Historical performance may not be indicative of future performance and, as noted elsewhere in this report, the Company has included forward-looking statements about its business, plans and prospects that are subject to change. Forward-looking statements are particularly located in, but not limited to, the sections Item 1- Business and Item 7- Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. In addition to the other risks or uncertainties contained in this report, the following risks may affect operating results, financial condition and cash flows. If any of these risks occur, either alone or in combination with other factors, the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. Moreover, readers should note this is not an exhaustive list; some risks are unknown or not quantifiable, and other risks that are currently perceived as immaterial may ultimately prove more significant than expected. Statements about plans, predictions or expectations should not be construed to be assurances of performance or promises to take a given course of action. Continued deterioration in the real estate market would lead to additional losses, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 90% of the Company’s non-covered loan portfolio is secured by real estate, the majority of which is commercial real estate. As a result of increased levels of commercial and consumer delinquencies and declining real estate values, the Company has experienced higher levels of net charge-offs and allowances for loan losses. Continued increases in commercial and consumer delinquency levels or continued declines in real estate market values would result in additional net charge-offs and provision for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects. Future loan losses may exceed the allowance for loan losses. The Company has established a reserve for possible losses expected in connection with loans in the credit portfolio. This allowance reflects estimates of the collectability of certain identified loans, as well as an overall risk assessment of total loans outstanding. The determination of the amount of loan loss allowance is subjective; although the method for determining the amount of the allowance uses criteria such as risk ratings and historical loss rates, these factors may not be adequate predictors of future loan performance. Accordingly, the Company cannot offer assurances that these estimates ultimately will prove correct or that the loan loss allowance will be sufficient to protect against losses that ultimately may occur. If the loan loss allowance proves to be inadequate, it may require unexpected charges to income, which would adversely impact results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, bank regulators frequently monitor banks' loan loss allowances, and if regulators were to determine that the allowance was inadequate, they may require the Company to increase the allowance, which also would adversely impact revenues and financial condition. Nonperforming assets take significant time and expense to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We expect to incur losses related to elevated levels of nonperforming loans. We do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans, which adversely affects our income. Our loan administration costs increase as we attempt to resolve nonperforming loans and as we receive collateral through foreclosures or other proceedings. Increases in levels of nonperfoming loans may impact the capital levels the FDIC expects the Bank to maintain. Defaults may negatively impact the Company. Credit risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained if a significant number of borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The Company has adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for credit losses, which management believes are appropriate to minimize risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying the credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially affect results of operations. -14- Table of Contents The Company’s operations are geographically concentrated in Northwest Washington State and therefore are affected by local economic conditions. Substantially all of the Company’s business is derived from a five-county area in northwest Washington State. Employment opportunities within these communities have traditionally been primarily in the areas of military spending, oil and gas industries, tourism and manufacturing. While the Company’s expansion strategy has been built around these growing and diverse geographic markets, the Company’s business is, and will remain, sensitive to economic factors that relate to these industries and to local and regional business conditions. As a result, local or regional economic downturns, or downturns that disproportionately affect one or more of the key industries in the Company’s markets, may have a more pronounced effect upon the Company’s business than they might on an institution that is more broadly diverse in geographic concentration. The extent of the future impact of these events on economic and business conditions cannot be predicted; however, prolonged or acute fluctuations could have a material and adverse impact upon the Company’s results of operation and financial condition. There has been high unemployment and a decline in housing prices in the communities the Bank serves. If regional economic conditions do not improve, or worsen, we expect increased loan delinquencies and defaults, higher level of nonperforming assets and lower demand for our services. FDIC-assisted acquisitions or assuming deposits from troubled institutions present significant challenges in integration and failure to realize expected cost savings and synergies could have an adverse impact. The Company may make opportunistic whole or partial acquisitions of other banks, branches, financial institutions, or related businesses from time to time that it expects to further its business strategy. These acquisitions could involve numerous risks, including lower than expected performance or higher than expected costs, difficulties related to integration, diversion of management’s attention from other business activities, changes in relationships with customers, and the potential loss of key employees. Any possible acquisition will be subject to regulatory approval, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain such approval. The Company may not be successful in identifying acquisition candidates, integrating acquired institutions, or preventing deposit erosion or loan quality deterioration at acquired institutions. Competition for acquisitions in the Company’s market area is highly competitive, and the Company may not be able to acquire other institutions on attractive terms. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in completing or will even pursue future acquisitions, or if such transactions are completed, that it will be successful in integrating acquired businesses into its operations. The Company’s ability to grow may be limited if it chooses not to pursue or is unable to successfully make acquisitions in the future. A rapid change in interest rates could reduce the Company’s net interest margin, net interest income and fee income. The Company’s earnings are impacted by changing interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the demand for new loans, the credit profile of existing loans, the rates received on loans and securities, and rates paid on deposits and borrowings. The relationship between the rates received on loans and securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings is known as the net interest spread. Based on the Company’s current volume and mix of interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning assets, net interest spread could be expected to increase during times when interest rates rise in a parallel shift along the yield curve and, conversely, to decline during times of similar falling interest rates. Exposure to interest rate risk is managed by monitoring the re-pricing frequency of rate-sensitive assets and rate-sensitive liabilities over any given period. Although management believes the current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable, significant fluctuations in interest rates could potentially have an adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. -15- Table of Contents Tightening of credit markets and liquidity needs could result in higher funding costs, adversely affecting net income. Liquidity measures the ability to meet loan demand and deposit withdrawals and to service liabilities as they come due. Dramatic fluctuations in loan or deposit balances make it challenging to manage liquidity. A sharp reduction in deposits could force the Company to borrow heavily in the wholesale deposit market. In addition, rapid loan growth during periods of low liquidity could induce the Company to purchase federal funds from correspondent banks, borrow at the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle or Federal Reserve discount window, raise deposit interest rates or reduce lending activity. Wholesale deposits and federal funds or other sources for borrowings may not be available to us due to regulatory constraints, market upheaval or unfavorable terms. Internal control systems could fail to detect certain events. The Company is subject to many operating risks, including but not limited to data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. If such an event is not prevented or detected by the Company’s internal controls, and it is uninsured or is in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s reputation in the business community and the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company’s operations could be interrupted if third party service providers experience difficulty, terminate their services, or fail to comply with banking regulations. The Company depends, and will continue to depend to a significant extent, on a number of relationships with third-party service providers. Specifically, the Company utilizes software and hardware systems for processing, essential web hosting, debit and credit card processing, merchant processing, Internet banking systems, and other processing services from third-party service providers. These vendors provide services that support our operations, including the storage and processing of sensitive consumer and business customer data, as well as our sales efforts. If these third-party service providers experience difficulties or terminate their services, and the Company is unable to replace them with other qualified service providers, the Company’s operations could be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. A cyber security breach of a vendor’s system may result in theft of our data or disruption of business processes. A material breach of customer data security at a service provider’s site may negatively impact our business reputation and cause a loss of customers; result in increased expense to contain the event or require that we provide credit monitoring services for affected customers, result in regulatory fines and sanctions and could result in litigation. In most cases, we will remain primarily liable to our customers for losses arising from a breach of a vendor’s data security system. We rely on our outsourced service providers to implement and maintain prudent cyber security controls. We have procedures in place to assess a vendor’s cyber security controls prior to establishing a contractual relationship and to periodically review assessments of those control systems. -16- Table of Contents The network and computer systems on which the Company depends could fail or experience a security breach. The Company’s computer systems could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Because the Company conductspart of its business over the Internet and outsources several critical functions to third parties, operations depend on the Company’s ability, and to a degree on the ability of third-party service providers, to protect computer systems and network infrastructure against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, mechanical failure, software errors, operator errors, physical break-ins, or similar catastrophic events. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in operations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. We store and process sensitive consumer and business customer data as a routine part of our business. A cyber security breach may result in theft of data or disruption of our processing systems. Our inability to use or access information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timeliness of our operations. A material breach of customer data security may negatively impact our business reputation and cause a loss of customers, result in increased expense to contain the event or require that we provide credit monitoring services for affected customers, result in regulatory fines and sanctions and could result in class action litigation. Cyber security risk management programs are expensive to maintain and will not protect the Company from all risks associated with maintaining the security of customer data and the Company’s proprietary data from external and internal intrusions, disaster recovery and failures in the controls used by our vendors. In addition, a significant barrier to online financial transactions is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. The Company’s Internet banking system relies on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, fraud perpetrated by a customer, employee, or third-party, or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms the Bank or our third-party service providers use to protect the confidentiality and integrity of data, including non-public customer information. If any such compromise of security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company may not be able to replace key members of management or attract and retain qualified employees in the future. The Company depends on the services of existing management to carry out its business strategies. As the Company expands, it will need to continue to attract and retain additional management and other qualified staff. In particular, because the Company plans to continue to expand its locations and products and services, it will need to continue to attract and retain qualified banking personnel. Competition for such personnel is significant in the Company’s geographic market areas. The loss of the services of any management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial conditions, and prospects. -17- Table of Contents The Company’s banking operations are subject to extensive government regulation that is expected to become more burdensome, increase its costs and make it less competitive compared to financial services firms that are not subject to the same regulation. The Company is subject to government regulation that could limit or restrict its activities, which in turn could adversely impact operations. The financial services industry is regulated extensively. Federal and state regulation is designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, as well as shareholders. These regulations can sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. Moreover, federal and state banking laws and regulations undergo frequent, significant changes. Changes in laws and regulations may affect the cost of doing business, limit permissible activities (including insurance and securities activities), or the Company’s competitive position in relation to credit unions, savings associations and other financial institutions. These changes could also reduce federal deposit insurance coverage, broaden the powers or geographic range of financial holding companies, alter the taxation of financial institutions, and change the structure and jurisdiction of various regulatory agencies. Federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, can significantly affect credit availability. Other federal legislation such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act can dramatically shift resources and costs to ensure adequate compliance. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, is expected to increase our overall costs of compliance and could lead to increased capital requirements, more stringent consumer protection laws, restrictions on income generating activities and new corporate governance and executive compensation reforms. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the financial industry. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than two years. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity, generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets adversely affected business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company does not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to significantly improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions in the financial services industry. In particular, the following risks may be faced in connection with these events: · The Company expects to face increased regulation of the industry, including as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, EESA and ARRA. Compliance with such regulation may increase costs and limit the ability to pursue business opportunities. · The Company’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers may be impaired if the models and approaches the Company uses to select, manage, and underwrite customers become less predictive of future behaviors. · The process the Company uses to estimate losses inherent in its credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of the Bank’s borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. · The Company will be required to pay relatively higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums because market developments depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. -18- Table of Contents · There may be downward pressure on the Company’s stock price. · The Company’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions and government sponsored entities. · The Company may face increased competition due to intensified consolidation of the financial services industry. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on the Company’s ability to access capital and on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is highly competitive. Competition may adversely affect the Company’s performance. The financial services business is becoming increasingly competitive due to changes in regulation, technological advances, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. The Company faces competition both in attracting deposits and in originating loans. Competition for loan’s principally through the pricing of interest rates and loan fees, and the efficiency and quality of services. Increasing levels of competition in the banking and financial services industries may reduce market share or cause the prices charged for services to fall. Results may differ in future periods depending upon the nature or level of competition. We may be required to raise additional capital, which will depend on market conditions and the results of which could have a dilutive effect on existing shareholders. Our growth strategy may require additional capital. Also, continued elevated levels of nonperforming assets or higher regulatory capital requirements could require us to sell shares of our common stock. Shares of the Company’s common stock eligible for future sale, including those that may be issued in connection with the Company’s various stock option and equity compensation plans, in possible acquisitions, and any other offering of Company’s common stock for cash, could have a dilutive effect on the market for Company’s common stock and could adversely affect its market price. There are 35,000,000 shares of Company’s common stock authorized, of which 15,398,197 shares were outstanding at December 31, 2011. At the time we need to raise capital, market conditions may be adverse and we run the risk of not being able to meet capital requirements set by regulators or necessary for growth. The failure of the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Seattle or the national Federal Home Loan Bank System may have a material negative impact on the Company’s earnings and liquidity. Recently, the FHLB of Seattle announced that it did not meet minimum regulatory capital requirements for the year ended December 31, 2011, due to the deterioration in the market value of their mortgage-backed securities portfolio. As a result, the FHLB of Seattle cannot pay a dividend on their common stock and it cannot repurchase or redeem common stock. While the FHLB of Seattle has announced it does not anticipate that additional capital is immediately necessary, nor does it believe that its capital level is inadequate to support realized losses in the future, the FHLB of Seattle could require its members, including the Company, to contribute additional capital in order to return the FHLB of Seattle to compliance with capital guidelines. At December 31, 2011, the Company held $7.6 million of common stock in the FHLB of Seattle. Should the FHLB of Seattle fail, the Company anticipates that its investment in the FHLB’s common stock would be “other than temporarily” impaired and may have no value. The FHLB has discontinued stock repurchases and dividends and we could be required to take an impairment charge on our FHLB stock holdings. -19- Table of Contents At December 31, 2011, the Company held minimal cash on deposit with the FHLB of Seattle. At that date, all other cash and cash equivalents were held on deposit at the Pacific Coast Banker’s Bank, the Federal Reserve Bank of San Franscisco or on hand in branch office vaults. At December 31, 2011, the Company maintained a line of credit with the FHLB of Seattle equal to 9% of total assets to the extent the Company provides qualifying collateral and holds sufficient FHLB stock. At December 31, 2011, the Company was in compliance with collateral requirements and $154.7 million of the line of credit was available for additional borrowings. The Company is dependent on the FHLB of Seattle as a source of wholesale funding for immediate liquidity and borrowing needs. The failure of the FHLB of Seattle or the FHLB system in general, may materially impair the Company’s ability to meet its growth plans or to meet short and long term liquidity demands. If we inaccurately determine the fair value of assets acquired, including the FDIC loss-sharing assets, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of acquired loans, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of secured loans. In FDIC-assisted acquisitions that include loss-sharing agreements, we may record a loss-sharing asset that we consider adequate to absorb the indemnified portion of future losses which may occur in the acquired loan portfolio. The FDIC loss-sharing asset is accounted for on the same basis as the related acquired loans and OREO and primarily represents the present value of the cash flows the Company expects to collect from the FDIC under the loss-sharing agreements. If our assumptions are incorrect, significant earnings volatility can occur and the balance of the FDIC loss-sharing asset may at any time be insufficient to cover future loan losses, and credit loss provisions may be needed to respond to different economic conditions or adverse developments in the acquired loan portfolio. Any increase in future loan losses could have a negative effect on our operating results. FDIC-assisted acquisition opportunities may not become available and increased competition may make it more difficult for us to successfully bid on failed bank transactions. A part of our growth strategy is to pursue failing banks that the FDIC plans to place in receivership. The FDIC may not place banks that meet our strategic objectives into receivership. Failed bank transactions are attractive opportunities because of loss-sharing arrangements with the FDIC and our ability to determine the non-deposit liabilities that we assume. The bidding process for failing banks could become very competitive and the FDIC does not provide information about bids until after the failing bank has been closed. We may not be able to match or beat the bids of other acquirers unless we bid aggressively by increasing the premium paid on assumed deposits or reducing the discount bid on assets purchased, which could make the acquisition less attractive to us. -20- Table of Contents If the goodwill we have recorded in connection with acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Accounting standards require that we account for acquisitions using the acquisition method of accounting. We evaluate our goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. Such evaluation is based on a variety of factors, including the quoted price of our common stock, market prices of common stock of other banking organizations, common stock trading multiples, discounted cash flows, and data from comparable acquisitions. There can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in impairment and ensuing write-down, which could be material, resulting in an adverse impact on our earnings and capital. The FDIC has increased insurance premiums to restore and maintain the federal deposit insurance fund, which has increased our costs and could adversely affect our business. In 2009, the FDIC imposed a special deposit insurance assessment of five basis points on all insured institutions, and also required insured institutions to prepay estimated quarterly risk-based assessments through 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% as the minimum deposit insurance fund reserve ratio. The FDIC has determined that the fund reserve ratio should be 2.0% and has adopted a plan under which it will meet the statutory minimum fund reserve ratio of 1.35% by the deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect on institutions with assets less than $10 billion of the increase in the statutory minimum fund reserve ratio to 1.35% from the former statutory minimum of 1.15%. The deposit insurance fund will likely suffer additional losses in the future due to failures of insured institutions. There can be no assurance that there will not be additional significant deposit insurance premium increases, special assessments or prepayments. Any significant premium increases or special assessments could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to receive dividends from our banking subsidiary could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our banking subsidiary. In addition to capital raised at the holding company level, dividends from the Bank are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and principal and interest on our outstanding debt. Federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Company. Limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiary could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay dividends on common stock. Additionally, if the Bank’s earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to the Company while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common shareholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. Significant legal or regulatory actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities. We are from time to time subject to claims and proceedings related to our operations. In addition we could become subject to supervisory or enforcement actions by regulators, or criminal proceedings by prosecutorial authorities. In addition to defense costs, if we are subject large monetary penalties or fines as a result of such claims or proceedings, we would suffer adverse financial consequences and reputational harm. Our insurance coverage does not cover any civil money penalties or fines imposed by government authorities and may not cover all other claims that might be brought against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. -21- Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has no unresolved staff comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 