Item 1A. Risk Factors” for additional labor discussion. Noise Abatement. The Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 (“ANCA”) recognizes the right of airport operators with special noise problems to implement local noise abatement procedures as long as such procedures do not interfere unreasonably with the interstate and foreign commerce of the national air transportation system. As a result of litigation and pressure from airport area residents, airport operators have taken local actions over the years to reduce aircraft noise. These actions include restrictions on night operations, frequency of aircraft operations and various other procedures for noise abatement. While Northwest has sufficient operational and scheduling flexibility to accommodate current local noise restrictions, its operations could be adversely affected if locally imposed regulations become more restrictive or widespread. Under the direction of the United Nations International Civil Aviation Organization (the “ICAO”), world governments, including the U.S., continue to consider more stringent aircraft noise certification standards than that contained in the ANCA. A new ICAO noise standard (Chapter 4) was adopted in 2001 that established more stringent noise requirements for newly manufactured aircraft after January 1, 2006. As adopted, the new rule is not accompanied by a mandatory phase-out of in-service Chapter 3 aircraft, including certain aircraft operated by Northwest. FAA reauthorization legislation, known as “Vision 100 — Century of Aviation Reauthorization Act” and signed into law by the president on December 12, 2003, required the FAA to issue regulations implementing Chapter 4 noise standards consistent with ICAO recommendations. In July 2005, the FAA issued a rule adopting Chapter 4 standards. All of the Company’s aircraft will be in compliance with these new FAA rules either as Stage 3 or Stage 4 aircraft. Safety. The Company is subject to FAA jurisdiction pertaining to aircraft maintenance and operations, including equipment, dispatch, communications, training, flight personnel and other matters affecting air safety. To ensure compliance with its regulations, the FAA requires all U.S. airlines to obtain operating, airworthiness and other certificates, which are subject to suspension or revocation for cause. 9 Under FAA regulations, the Company has established, and the FAA has approved, maintenance programs for all aircraft operated by Northwest. These programs provide for the ongoing maintenance of Northwest’s aircraft, ranging from frequent routine inspections to major overhauls. Northwest’s aircraft require various levels of maintenance or “checks” and periodically undergo complete overhauls. Maintenance programs are monitored closely by the FAA, with FAA representatives routinely present at Northwest’s maintenance facilities. The FAA issues Airworthiness Directives (“ADs”), which mandate changes to an air carrier’s maintenance program. These ADs (which include requirements for structural modifications to certain aircraft) are issued to ensure that the nation’s transport aircraft fleet remains airworthy. Northwest is currently, and expects to remain, in compliance with all applicable requirements under all ADs and the FAA approved maintenance programs. A combination of FAA and Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulations on both the federal and state levels apply to all of Northwest’s ground-based operations in the U.S. Environmental. The Company is subject to regulation under various environmental laws and regulations, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980. In addition, many state and local governments have adopted environmental laws and regulations to which the Company’s operations are subject. Environmental laws and regulations are administered by numerous federal and state agencies. In November 2005, the Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) issued a rule implementing the aircraft emissions standards previously approved by the ICAO, of which the U.S. is a member. Following issuance of the EPA rule, a lawsuit was filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit on behalf of state and local air regulators against the EPA challenging its rule regulating aircraft emissions on the grounds that the international emissions standards codified by the EPA rule are not stringent enough. Northwest believes it is in compliance with the emissions standards that were codified by the EPA rule. Northwest, along with other airlines, has been identified as a potentially responsible party at various environmental sites. Management believes that Northwest’s share of liability for the cost of the remediation of these sites, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial statements. Civil Reserve Air Fleet Program. Northwest renewed its participation in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet Program (“CRAF”), pursuant to which Northwest has agreed to make available, during the period beginning October 1, 2007 and ending September 30, 2008, 18 Boeing 747-200/400 passenger aircraft, 16 Boeing 757-300 passenger aircraft, ten Boeing 757-200 passenger aircraft, 17 Airbus A330-300 passenger aircraft, 11 Airbus A330-200 passenger aircraft and 13 Boeing 747-200 freighter aircraft for use by the U.S. military under certain stages of readiness related to national emergencies. The program is a standby arrangement that allows the U.S. Department of Defense U.S. Transportation Command to call on some or all of these 85 contractually committed Northwest aircraft and their crews to supplement military airlift capabilities. 10 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Related to Northwest and the Airline Industry We are vulnerable to increases in aircraft fuel costs. Because fuel costs are a significant portion of our operating costs, substantial changes in fuel costs would materially affect our operating results. Fuel prices continue to be susceptible to, among other factors, political unrest in various parts of the world, Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) policy, the rapid growth of economies in China and India, the levels of inventory carried by industries, the amounts of reserves built by governments, disruptions to production and refining facilities and weather. In 2005 Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita caused widespread disruption to oil production, refinery operations and pipeline capacity in portions of the U.S. Gulf Coast. As a result of these disruptions, the price of jet fuel increased significantly and the availability of jet fuel supplies diminished during the fall of 2005. These and other factors that impact the global supply and demand for aircraft fuel may affect our financial performance due to its high sensitivity to fuel prices. A one-cent change in the cost of each gallon of fuel would impact operating expenses by approximately $1.4 million per month (based on our 2007 mainline and regional aircraft fuel consumption). The Company’s mainline fuel expense per available seat mile excluding mark-to-market adjustments related to fuel derivative contracts that settle in future periods was 3.43 cents, on average, for 2007 and 2006. From time to time, we hedge some of our future fuel purchases to protect against potential spikes in price. However, these hedging strategies may not always be effective and can result in losses depending on price changes. As of February 29, 2008, the Company had hedged the price of approximately 18% of its estimated 2008 fuel requirements. As of February 28, 2007, the Company had hedged the price of approximately 40% of its estimated 2007 fuel requirements. The airline industry is intensely competitive. The airline industry is intensely competitive. Our competitors include other major domestic airlines as well as foreign, regional and new entrant airlines, some of which have more financial resources and/or lower cost structures than ours. In most of our markets we compete with at least one of these carriers. Our revenues are sensitive to numerous factors, and the actions of other carriers in the areas of pricing, scheduling and promotions can have a substantial adverse impact on our revenues. Industry revenues are also impacted by growth of low cost airlines and the use of internet travel Web sites. Using the advantage of low unit costs, driven in large part by lower labor costs, low cost carriers and carriers who have achieved lower labor costs are able to operate profitably while offering substantially lower fares. Internet travel Web sites have driven significant distribution cost savings for airlines, but have also allowed consumers to become more efficient at finding lower fare alternatives than in the past by providing them with more powerful pricing information. Such factors become even more significant in periods when the industry experiences large losses, as airlines under financial stress, or in bankruptcy, may institute pricing structures intended to protect market share, or raise cash quickly, irrespective of the impact to long-term profitability. In addition, several of our U.S. competitors, including US Airways, United, Delta and several small U.S. competitors, have recently reorganized under bankruptcy protection. Other carriers could file for bankruptcy or threaten to do so to reduce their costs. Carriers operating under bankruptcy protection can operate in a manner that could be adverse to the Company and could emerge from bankruptcy as more vigorous competitors. From time to time the U.S. airline industry has undergone consolidations, as in the recent merger of US Airways and America West, and may experience additional consolidation in the future. If other airlines participate in merger activity, those airlines may significantly improve their cost structures or revenue generation capabilities, thereby potentially making them stronger competitors of Northwest. The airline industry is sensitive to global events. Global events have also significantly impacted airline industry revenue. The commencement of the war in Iraq depressed air travel, particularly on international routes. The outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”) also depressed travel on international routes and sensitized passengers to the potential for air travel to facilitate the spread of contagious diseases. An escalation of the war in the Middle East, or another outbreak of SARS, Avian flu, or other influenza-type illness, if it were to persist for an extended period, could again materially affect the airline industry and the Company by reducing revenues and impacting travel behavior. 11 Our actual financial results may vary significantly from the projections filed with the Bankruptcy Court. In connection with the Company’s Plan, the Debtors were required to prepare projected financial information to demonstrate to the Bankruptcy Court the feasibility of the Plan and the ability of the Debtors to continue operations upon emergence from bankruptcy. As filed with the Bankruptcy Court on February 15, 2007, as part of the initial form of the disclosure statement, which also was filed with the SEC, and as part of the disclosure statement approved by the Bankruptcy Court, the projections reflected numerous assumptions concerning anticipated future performance and prevailing and anticipated market and economic conditions that were and continue to be beyond our control and that may not materialize. For example, the projections included an assumption regarding the timing of deliveries of Boeing 787-8 aircraft which is no longer accurate as a result of announced delays in the Boeing 787-8 production program. Projections are inherently subject to uncertainties and to a wide variety of significant business, economic and competitive risks. Our actual results may vary from those contemplated by the projections and the variations may be material. Because our consolidated financial statements following our emergence from bankruptcy reflect fresh-start reporting adjustments, financial information in our financial statements following emergence will not be comparable to NWA Corp.’s financial information from periods prior to emergence from bankruptcy. Following our reorganization, we adopted fresh-start reporting in accordance with SOP 90-7, pursuant to which our reorganization value, which represented the fair value of the entity before considering liabilities and approximated the amount a willing buyer would pay for the assets of the entity immediately after the reorganization, has been allocated to the fair value of assets in conformity with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 141, Business Combinations (“SFAS No. 141”), using the purchase method of accounting for business combinations. We stated liabilities, other than deferred taxes and pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations, at fair value or at the present values of the amounts to be paid. The amount remaining after allocation of the reorganization value to the fair value of identified tangible and intangible assets has been reflected as goodwill, which is subject to periodic evaluation for impairment. In addition, under fresh-start reporting the accumulated deficit has been eliminated. Thus, our balance sheets and results of operations are not comparable in many respects to balance sheets and consolidated statements of operations data for periods prior to the adoption of fresh-start reporting. Additional terrorist attacks or the fear of such attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect the Company and the airline industry. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely affected the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, as well as prospects for the airline industry generally. Among the effects experienced from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were substantial flight disruption costs caused by the FAA, a division of the DOT, which imposed a temporary grounding of the U.S. airline industry’s fleet, significantly increased security costs and associated passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic and revenue per revenue passenger mile (“yield”). Additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights) could materially and adversely affect the Company and the airline industry. The war in Iraq and additional international hostilities could also have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The Company’s financial resources might not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any further terrorist attacks or an increase in post-war unrest in Iraq or other international hostilities involving the U.S. Additional security requirements may increase the Company’s costs and decrease its traffic. Since September 11, 2001, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”) and the TSA have implemented numerous security measures that affect airline operations and costs, and are likely to implement additional measures in the future. In addition, foreign governments have also begun to institute additional security measures at foreign airports Northwest serves. A substantial portion of the costs of these security measures is borne by the airlines and their passengers, increasing the Company’s costs and/or reducing its revenue. Security measures imposed by the U.S. and foreign governments after September 11, 2001 have increased Northwest’s costs and may further adversely affect the Company and its financial results. Additional measures taken to enhance either passenger or cargo security procedures and/or to recover associated costs in the future may result in similar adverse effects. Union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect the Company’s operations. Unions represent approximately 80% of the Company’s employees. The Railway Labor Act (“RLA”) governs the labor relations of employers and employees engaged in the airline industry. The RLA contains detailed procedures that must be exhausted before a lawful work stoppage may occur. Pursuant to the RLA, the Company has CBAs with seven domestic unions representing separate employee groups. 12 Under the RLA, an amendable labor contract continues in effect while the parties negotiate a new contract. In addition to direct contract negotiations, the RLA also provides for mediation, potential arbitration of unresolved issues and a 30-day “cooling-off” period after the end of which either party can resort to self-help. The self-help remedies include, but are not limited to, a strike by the members of the labor union and the imposition of proposed contract amendments and, in the event of a strike, the hiring of replacement workers by the Company. In addition to the risks associated with self-help there is also the risk that dissatisfied employees, either with or without union involvement, could engage in illegal slowdowns, work stoppages, or other actions that may disrupt operations. The loss of skilled employees upon whom the Company depends to operate its business or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel could adversely affect its results of operations. The Company believes that its future success will depend in large part on its ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, technical and other personnel. The Company may not be successful in retaining key personnel or in attracting and retaining other highly qualified personnel. Any inability to retain or attract significant numbers of qualified management and other personnel could adversely affect its business. The Company’s degree of leverage may limit its financial and operating activities. The Company continues to have significant indebtedness even after its exit from bankruptcy. Further, our historical capital requirements have been significant and our future capital requirements are significant; these requirements may also be affected by general economic conditions, industry trends, performance, and many other factors that are not within our control. The Company cannot ensure that we will be able to obtain financing in the future. In addition, the Company cannot ensure that we will not experience losses in the future. Our profitability and ability to generate cash flow will likely depend upon our ability to implement successfully our business strategy. However, the Company cannot ensure that we will be able to accomplish these results. The covenants in the Company’s Bank Credit Facility may restrict the Company’s activities and require satisfaction of certain financial tests. The Company’s Bank Credit Facility contains a number of covenants and other provisions that may restrict the Company’s ability to engage in various financing transactions and operating activities. The Bank Credit Facility also requires the Company to satisfy certain financial tests. The ability of the Company to meet these financial covenants may be affected by events beyond its control. If the Company defaults under any of these requirements, the lenders could declare all outstanding borrowings, accrued interest and fees to be due and payable. If that were to occur, there can be no assurance that the Company would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance this indebtedness or any of its other debt. Changes in government regulations could increase our operating costs and limit our ability to conduct our business. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory requirements in the U.S. and internationally. In the last several years, Congress has passed laws and the FAA has issued a number of maintenance directives and other operating regulations that impose substantial costs on airlines. Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues. For example, current proposals to address congestion at and around airports could limit our operations, reduce our revenues and/or increase our costs. The ability of U.S. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the appropriate landing slots or facilities may not be available, or because applicable arrangements between the U.S. and foreign governments may be amended from time to time. If an open skies policy were to be adopted for any of these routes, such an event could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position and results of operations and could result in the impairment of material amounts of related tangible assets. Recently, the U.S. and the European Union entered into an “open skies” agreement that will become effective at the end of March 2008. We cannot give assurance that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not adversely affect the industry or the Company. 13 Our insurance costs have increased substantially and further increases could harm our business. Following September 11, 2001, aviation insurers significantly increased airline insurance premiums and reduced the maximum amount of coverage available to airlines for certain types of claims. In addition, other insurance costs increased significantly following the 2005 Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita events. Our total aviation and other insurance expenses were $36 million higher in 2007 than in 2000. The FAA is currently providing aviation war risk insurance as required by the Homeland Security Act of 2002 as amended by the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2005 and subsequently by the Continuing Appropriations Resolution 2007. However, following multiple extensions, this coverage is scheduled to expire on March 30, 2008. While the government may again extend the period that it provides excess war risk coverage, there is no assurance that this will occur, or if it does, how long the extension will last, what will be included in the coverage, or at what cost the coverage will be provided. Should the U.S. government stop providing war risk insurance in its current form to the U.S. airline industry, it is expected that the premiums charged by commercial aviation insurers for this coverage, if available at all, would be substantially higher than the premiums currently charged by the government, the maximum amount of coverage available would be reduced, and the type of coverage could be more restrictive. Commercial aviation insurers could further increase insurance premiums and reduce or cancel coverage, in the event of a new terrorist attack or other events adversely affecting the airline industry. Significant increases in insurance premiums could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain adequate war risk insurance, our business could be materially and adversely affected. If we were to be involved in an accident, we could be exposed to significant tort liability. Although we carry insurance to cover damages arising from an accident, resulting tort liability could be higher than our policy limits which could negatively impact our financial condition. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We conduct a significant portion of our operations in foreign locations. As a result, we have operating revenues and, to a lesser extent, operating expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, denominated in foreign currencies, principally the Japanese yen. Fluctuations in foreign currencies can significantly affect our operating performance and the value of our assets and liabilities located outside of the U.S. From time to time, we use financial instruments to hedge our exposure to foreign currencies. However, these hedging strategies may not always be effective. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had hedged approximately 42.6 percent of its 2008 anticipated yen-denominated sales. The 2008 Japanese yen hedges consist of forward contracts which hedge approximately 32.7 percent of yen-denominated sales at an average rate of 109.3 yen per U.S. dollar and collar options which hedge approximately 9.9 percent of yen-denominated sales with a rate range between 102.4 and 116.4 yen per U.S. dollar. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had no forward contracts or collar options outstanding related to its anticipated 2007 yen-denominated sales. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had also hedged approximately 66.4 percent of its 2008 anticipated Canadian dollar denominated sales with forward contracts at an average rate of 1.0008 Canadian dollars per U.S. dollar. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had no forward contracts outstanding related to its anticipated 2007 Canadian dollar denominated sales. We are exposed to changes in interest rates. We had $7.1 billion of debt and capital lease obligations that were accruing interest as of December 31, 2007 and $3.8 billion of total balance sheet cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as of December 31, 2007. Of the indebtedness, 70% bears interest at floating rates. An increase in interest rates would have an overall negative impact on our earnings as increased interest expense would only be partially offset by increased interest income. From time to time, we use financial instruments to hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. However, these hedging strategies may not always be effective. As of December 31, 2007 the Company had entered into individual interest rate cap hedges related to three floating rate debt instruments, with a total cumulative notional amount of $429 million. The objective of the interest rate cap hedges is to protect the anticipated payments of interest (cash flows) on the designated debt instruments from adverse market interest rate changes. 14 Any “ownership change” could limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards. Under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”), a corporation is generally allowed a deduction in any taxable year for net operating losses carried over from prior years. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had approximately $3.6 billion of federal and state net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards. A corporation’s use of its NOL carryforwards is generally limited under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change.” However, when an “ownership change” occurs pursuant to the implementation of a plan of reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code (as was the case on the Effective Date of the Company’s Plan), special rules in either Section 382(l)(5) or Section 382(l)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code apply instead of the general Section 382 limitation rules. In general terms, Sections 382(l)(5) or (l)(6) allow for a more favorable utilization of a company’s NOL carryforwards than would otherwise have been available following an “ownership change” not in connection with a plan of reorganization. We have not yet determined whether we will be eligible for, or will rely on, Section 382(l)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code, or whether we will instead rely on Section 382(l)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code. Assuming we are eligible for, and rely on, Section 382(l)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code, a second “ownership change” within two years from the Effective Date of the Plan would eliminate completely our ability to utilize our NOL carryforwards. Even if we rely on Section 382(1)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code, an “ownership change” after the Effective Date of the Plan could significantly limit our ability to utilize our NOL carryforwards for taxable years including or following the subsequent “ownership change.” To avoid a potential adverse effect on our ability to utilize our NOL carryforwards after the Effective Date of the Plan, we have imposed restrictions on certain transfers of our common stock. Due to industry seasonality, operating results for any interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those for the entire year. The airline industry is seasonal in nature. Due to seasonal fluctuations, operating results for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of those for the entire year. Our second and third quarter operating results have historically been more favorable due to increased leisure travel on domestic and international routes during the summer months. The Company relies heavily on automated systems to operate its business and any significant failure of these systems could harm its business. The Company depends on automated systems to operate its business, including its internal airline reservation systems, flight operations systems, telecommunication systems and commercial Web sites, including nwa.com. Northwest’s Web site and reservation systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight information, as well as process critical financial transactions. Substantial or repeated Web site, reservations systems or telecommunication systems failures could reduce the attractiveness of Northwest’s services versus its competitors and materially impair its ability to market its services and operate its flights. The Company’s business relies extensively on third-party providers. Failure of these parties to perform as expected, or unexpected interruptions in the Company’s relationships with these providers or their provision of services to the Company, could have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The Company has engaged a growing number of third-party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to its business, such as the operation of certain of its regional carriers, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, provision of maintenance and repairs and performance of aircraft fueling operations, among other vital functions and services. The Company does not directly control these third-party providers, although it does enter into agreements with many of them that define expected service performance. Any of these third-party providers, however, may materially fail to meet their service performance commitments to the Company. The failure of these providers to adequately perform their service obligations, or other unexpected interruptions of services, may reduce the Company’s revenues and increase its expenses or prevent Northwest from operating its flights and providing other services to its customers. In addition, the Company’s business and financial performance could be materially harmed if its customers believe that its services are unreliable or unsatisfactory. 15 Forward-Looking Statements Certain of the statements made in “Item 1. Business,” “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K are forward-looking statements and are based upon information available to the Company on the date the statements are made. The Company, through its management, may also from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. In connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company is hereby identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the Company. Any such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements. The Company believes that the material risks and uncertainties that could affect the outlook of an airline operating in a global economy include, among others, the ability of the Company to operate pursuant to the terms of its financing facilities (particularly the related financial covenants), the ability of the Company to attract, motivate and/or retain key executives and associates, the future level of air travel demand, the Company’s future passenger traffic and yields, the airline industry pricing environment, increased costs for security, the cost and availability of aviation insurance coverage and war risk coverage, the general economic condition of the U.S. and other regions of the world, the price and availability of jet fuel, the war in Iraq, the possibility of additional terrorist attacks or the fear of such attacks, concerns about Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and other influenza or contagious illnesses, labor strikes, work disruptions, labor negotiations both at other carriers and the Company, low cost carrier expansion, capacity decisions of other carriers, actions of the U.S. and foreign governments, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and inflation. Additional information with respect to these factors and these and other events that could cause differences between forward-looking statements and future actual results is contained in “Risk Factors Related to Northwest and the Airline Industry” above. Developments in any of these areas, as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, could cause the Company’s results to differ from results that have been or may be projected by or on behalf of the Company. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. These statements deal with the Company’s expectations about the future and are subject to a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company’s expectations. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company, or persons acting on behalf of the Company, are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors described above. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 16 