Risk Factors” section: • changes in general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the end markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry; 11 Table of Contents • the highly competitive nature of the end markets we serve, particularly within the semiconductor industry; • any current and future litigation that could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources that are needed to successfully maintain and grow our business; • our dependence on a few customers for a significant portion of our revenue; • our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure for our manufacturing and assembly and test processes and our reliance on third parties to produce our products; • cancellations, rescheduling or deferrals of significant customer orders or shipments, as well as the ability of our customers to manage inventory; • gain or loss of a design win or key customer; • seasonality in sales of consumer devices in which our products are incorporated; • failure to qualify our products or our suppliers’ manufacturing lines; • our ability to develop and introduce new and enhanced products in a timely and effective manner, as well as our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology; • failure to protect our intellectual property; • impact of a significant natural disaster, including earthquakes, floods and tsunamis, particularly in certain regions in which we operate or own buildings, such as Santa Clara; and • our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel. Due to fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and other factors, the price at which our common shares will trade is likely to continue to be highly volatile. From January 28, 2012 through January 31, 2015, our common shares traded as low as $6.98 and as high as $16.86 per share. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your common shares at or above the price you paid. In future periods, our stock price could decline if, amongst other factors, our revenues or operating results are below our estimates or the estimates or expectations of securities analysts and investors. As a result of stock price volatility, we may be subject to securities class action litigation. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources that are needed to successfully maintain and grow our business. We operate in intensely competitive markets, and our failure to compete effectively would harm our results of operations. The semiconductor industry and specifically the mobile and wireless communications markets are extremely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product offerings and new competitors enter the market. This has especially intensified as semiconductor companies have begun to offer more integrated platforms. We currently compete with a number of large domestic and international companies in the business of designing integrated circuits and related applications, some of which have greater financial, technical and management resources than us. Our efforts to introduce new products into markets with entrenched competitors will expose us to additional competitive pressures. For example, we are facing and expect we will continue to face significant competition in the LTE market. We expect competition to continue to increase as industry standards continue to evolve and become better known, and others realize the market potential of this trend to platform integration. Additionally, customer expectations and requirements in such areas as the need for turnkey solutions has been evolving rapidly and some of our competitors may be better situated to meet potential customer needs. As competition in the markets in which we operate continues to increase, our revenues and gross margins may decline. For example, competitors with greater financial resources may be able to offer lower prices than us, or they may offer additional products, services or other incentives that we may not be able to match. In addition, many of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities and 12 Table of Contents have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and greater sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Furthermore, our current and potential competitors in the mobile and wireless markets have established or may establish financial and strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of customers. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among these competitors may acquire significant market share, which would harm our business. While we continue to pursue similar strategic relationships, and currently have significant financial and technical resources, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully against existing or new competitors, which would harm our results of operations. In addition, semiconductor providers have experienced consolidation over the past several years. For example, Broadcom Corporation acquired NetLogic Microsystems in February 2011, Qualcomm Inc. acquired Atheros Communications Inc. in May 2011, Texas Instruments Incorporated acquired National Semiconductor in September 2011 and Avago Technologies Limited (“Avago”) acquired LSI Corporation (“LSI”) in May 2014. Other pending transactions may further consolidate competition in our industry. Consolidation among our competitors could lead to a changing competitive landscape, capabilities and market share, which could harm our results of operations. We are currently involved in a patent litigation action involving Carnegie Mellon University, and, if we do not prevail on appeal of the district court judgment, we could be liable for substantial damages. On March 6, 2009, Carnegie Mellon University (“CMU”) filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania naming Marvell Semiconductor, Inc. and us as defendants, and alleging patent infringement. CMU has asserted U.S. Patent Nos. 6,201,839 and 6,438,180 (collectively, the “CMU patents in suit”), which relate to read-channel integrated circuit devices and the HDD products incorporating such devices. A jury trial began on November 26, 2012. On December 26, 2012, a jury delivered a verdict that found the CMU patents in suit were literally and willfully infringed and valid, and awarded past damages in the amount of $1.17 billion. CMU sought in its post-trial motions enhanced damages up to three times the jury verdict, pre-judgment interest up to $322 million, post-judgment interest, supplemental damages, attorneys’ fees, and an injunction and/or ongoing royalties. Post-trial motions were heard on May 1 and 2, 2013. On June 26, 2013, the District Court denied CMU’s post-trial motion for attorney fees without prejudice. On August 23, 2013, the District Court denied our motion for mistrial. On September 23, 2013, the District Court denied our motion for judgment as a matter of law or a new trial on non-infringement, invalidity and other non-damages issues as well as our motion for reduced damages. On the same day, the District Court granted-in-part CMU’s motion for a finding of willful infringement and enhanced damages, reserving its further rulings on any enhancement of the verdict for a separate opinion. On January 14, 2014, the District Court denied our post-trial motion on laches. On March 31, 2014, the District Court rejected CMU’s motion for an injunction. The District Court also denied CMU’s request for pre-judgment interest, and substantially scaled back CMU’s request for enhanced damages. Based on these decisions, the Court calculated the damages including enhancement to total approximately $1.54 billion, and held that, under its decision, CMU is entitled to post judgment interest and an ongoing royalty. On May 7, 2014, the District Court entered final judgment, from which we filed a notice of appeal on May 14, 2014 to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington, D.C. We filed our opening appeal brief on August 4, 2014. CMU filed its opposition brief on October 20, 2014 and we filed our reply brief on November 20, 2014. We believe that there are strong grounds for appeal, which is set for oral argument in April 2015 before the U.S. Court of Appeals, but there is no guarantee that we will be successful on appeal. Please see “Note 10 — Commitments and Contingencies” in our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed description of a number of litigation matters we are currently engaged in. If we are required to pay most or all of the damages calculated by the District Court after all appeals have been exhausted, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In order to stay the execution of the final judgment pending its appeal before the U.S. Court of Appeals, we filed a supersedeas bond for $1.54 billion with the District Court. The bond was issued by a consortium of sureties authorized by the U.S. Treasury. If the judgment is affirmed after the completion of all appellate 13 Table of Contents proceedings, and we do not thereafter fully satisfy the judgment within thirty days, the sureties are obligated under the bond to make payment to CMU. In support of the bond, we entered into separate indemnity agreements with each of the sureties to indemnify the sureties from all costs and payments made under the bond. The indemnity agreements did not require collateral to be posted at the time of the issuance of the bond. Therefore no cash is considered restricted as of the date of this filing. However, the indemnity agreements provide that each of the sureties have the right to demand to be placed in funds or call for collateral under pre-defined events. The indemnity agreements will remain outstanding for as long as the underlying bond remains outstanding. The Court has required us to report ongoing royalties under the current judgment. Based on the royalty rate assessed by the District Court, such additional royalties for the period of time commencing on the date ordered by the District Court, January 15, 2013, through January 31, 2015 could be as much as $400 million. On November 14, 2014, we filed a second surety bond for $216 million and filed a commitment letter from the sureties to issue up to an additional $95 million in bonding under certain conditions. The second bond and commitment are secured by our campus located in Santa Clara, California, which has a carrying value of $139 million at January 31, 2015. We and CMU have agreed that the second bond and commitment satisfy the security for ongoing royalties while the appeal is pending. A significant portion of our business is dependent on the HDD industry, which is highly cyclical, experiences rapid technological change, is subject to industry consolidation and is facing increased competition from alternative technologies. The HDD industry is intensely competitive, and the technology changes rapidly. This industry has historically been cyclical, with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction. These cycles may affect us because some of our largest customers are participants in this industry. HDD manufacturers tend to order more components than they may need during growth periods, and sharply reduce orders for components during periods of contraction. Rapid technological changes in the HDD industry often result in shifts in market share among the industry’s participants. If the HDD manufacturers using our products do not retain or increase their market share, our sales may decrease. In addition, the HDD industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years. For example, during fiscal 2010, Toshiba acquired the HDD operations of Fujitsu. In December 2011, Seagate Technology plc (“Seagate”) completed the acquisition of Samsung’s HDD unit. In March 2012, Western Digital completed the acquisition of Hitachi’s HDD unit. Consolidation among our customers could lead to changing demand for our products, replacement of our products by the merged entity with those of our competitors and cancellation of orders, each of which could harm our results of operations. On the other hand, this could lead to increased opportunities for our products within the combined company if we can leverage our technology and customer relationships. Furthermore, future changes in the nature of information storage products could reduce demand for traditional HDDs. For example, products using alternative technologies, such as SSD and other storage technologies could become a source of competition to manufacturers of HDDs. Although we offer SSD controllers, leveraging our technology in hard drives, we cannot ensure we will be able to maintain significant market share if demand for traditional HDDs decreases. Additionally, we depend on a few customers for our SSD controllers and as such, the loss of any SSD controller customer or a significant reduction in sales we make to them (for example, as a result of a significant drop in market share) may harm our financial condition and results of operations. We have been named as a party to several lawsuits and may be named in additional litigation in the future, including litigation involving our patents and other intellectual property, which could subject us to liability, require us to indemnify our customers, require us to obtain or renew licenses, stop selling our products or force us to redesign our products. We have been named as a party to several lawsuits and we may be named in additional litigation in the future. Please see “Note 10 — Commitments and Contingencies” of our Notes to the Consolidated Financial 14 Table of Contents Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed description of a number of the litigation matters we are currently engaged in. In particular, litigation involving patents and other intellectual property is widespread in the high-technology industry and is particularly prevalent in the semiconductor industry, where a number of companies and other entities aggressively bring numerous infringement claims to assert their patent portfolios. The amount of damages alleged in intellectual property infringement claims can often be very significant. From time to time our subsidiaries and customers receive, and may continue to receive in the future, standards-based infringement claims, as well as claims against us and our subsidiaries’ proprietary technologies, particularly those related to storage technology, microprocessors and other circuit components. Our subsidiaries and customers could face claims of infringement for certain patent licenses that have not been renewed. These claims could result in litigation and/or claims for indemnification, which, in turn, could subject us to significant liability for damages, attorneys’ fees and costs. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling, offering for sale, making, having made or exporting products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; • limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for us; • pay substantial damages and/or license fees and/or royalties to the party claiming infringement or other license violations that could adversely impact our liquidity or operating results; • attempt to obtain or renew licenses to the relevant intellectual property, which licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and • attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property. Under certain circumstances, we have contractual and other legal obligations to indemnify and to incur legal expenses for current and former directors and officers. Additionally, from time to time, we have agreed to indemnify select customers for claims made against our products, where such claims allege infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including, but not limited to, patents, registered trademarks and/or copyrights. If we are required to make a significant payment under any of our indemnification obligations, our results of operations may be harmed. In addition, due to the high volatility of our stock price, we may be vulnerable to securities class action litigation. Furthermore, as a result of a prior SEC settlement, we forfeited for three years our ability to invoke the “safe harbor” for forward-looking statements provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Because we could not benefit from the statutory safe harbor from June 2008 through June 2011, it may be more difficult for us to defend against any future claims based on any forward-looking statements issued during that timeframe. The ultimate outcome of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Litigation may be time-consuming, expensive, and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The defense of these lawsuits may result in significant expenditures and the continued diversion of our management’s time and attention away from the operation of our business, which could impede our business. In the event we were to receive an unfavorable outcome in any lawsuit, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our stock price may be materially and adversely affected. Our sales are concentrated in a few customers, and if we lose or experience a significant reduction in sales to any of these key customers, or if any of these key customers experience a significant decline in market share, our revenues may decrease substantially. We receive a significant amount of our revenues from a limited number of customers. Net revenue from our two largest customers represented 33% of our net revenue for the year ended January 31, 2015. Sales to our 15 Table of Contents largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period and year to year primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer, natural disasters that may divert a customer’s operations, as well as the continued diversification of our customer base as we expand into new markets, and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future. The loss of any of our large customers or a significant reduction in sales we make to them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our products. In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: • a significant portion of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with relatively short notice to us; • customers may purchase integrated circuits from our competitors; • customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products (for example, a significant customer of our SSD products has recently seen a significant drop in its market share); • customers may develop their own solutions or acquire fully developed solutions from third-parties (for example, in September 2014, Seagate acquired the SSD business from Avago); or • customers may be subject to severe business disruptions. We rely on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our integrated circuit products, and the failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our ability to grow our business. We do not have our own manufacturing or assembly facilities and have very limited in-house testing facilities. Therefore, we currently rely on several third-party foundries to produce our integrated circuit products. We also currently rely on several third-party assembly and test subcontractors to assemble, package and test our products. This exposes us to a variety of risks, including the following: Regional Concentration Substantially all of our products are manufactured by third-party foundries located in Taiwan, and other sources are located in China and Singapore. In addition, substantially all of our third-party assembly and testing facilities are located in Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia and the Philippines. Because of the geographic concentration of these third-party foundries, as well as our assembly and test subcontractors, we are exposed to the risk that their operations may be disrupted by regional disasters including, for example, earthquakes (particularly in Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim close to fault lines), tsunamis or typhoons, or by political, social or economic instability. In the case of such an event, our revenues, cost of goods sold and results of operations would be negatively impacted. In addition, if we were unable to quickly identify alternate manufacturing facilities, we could experience significant delays in product shipments, which could harm our results of operations. No Guarantee of Capacity or Supply The ability of each foundry to provide us with semiconductor devices is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations. When demand is strong, availability of foundry capacity may be constrained or not available, and with limited exceptions, our vendors are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. We place our orders on the basis of our customers’ purchase orders or our forecast of 16 Table of Contents customer demand, and the foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and better financed than we are or that have long-term agreements with our main foundries may induce our foundries to reallocate capacity to those customers. This reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of components that we need. In particular, as the industry transitions to smaller geometries, our manufacturing partners may be supply constrained or may charge premiums, which may harm our business or results of operations. Moreover, if any of our third-party foundry suppliers are unable to secure necessary raw materials from their suppliers, lose benefits under material agreements, experience power outages, lack sufficient capacity to manufacture our products, encounter financial difficulties or suffer any other disruption or reduction in efficiency, we may encounter supply delays or disruptions, which could harm our business or results of operations. Despite our strategy to move to multiple sources, most of our products are not manufactured at more than one foundry at any given time, and our products typically are designed to be manufactured in a specific process at only one of these foundries. Accordingly, if one of our foundries is unable to provide us with components as needed, it may be difficult for us to transition the manufacture of our products to other foundries, and we could experience significant delays in securing sufficient supplies of those components. This could result in a material decline in revenues, net income and cash flow. In order to secure sufficient foundry capacity when demand is high and mitigate the risks described in the foregoing paragraph, we may enter into various arrangements with suppliers that could be costly and harm our results of operations, such as non-refundable deposits with or loans to foundries in exchange for capacity commitments, and contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of integrated circuits over extended periods. We may not be able to make any such arrangement in a timely fashion or at all, and any arrangements may be costly, reduce our financial flexibility, and not be on terms favorable to us. Moreover, if we are able to secure foundry capacity, we may be obligated to use all of that capacity or incur penalties. These penalties may be expensive and could harm our financial results. Uncertain Yields and Quality The fabrication of integrated circuits is a complex and technically demanding process. Our foundries have from time to time experienced manufacturing defects and reduced manufacturing yields, which are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by our foundries could result in lower than anticipated manufacturing yields or unacceptable performance. In addition, we may face lower manufacturing yields and reduced quality in the process of ramping up and diversifying our manufacturing partners. Poor yields from our foundries, or defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, harm our financial results and result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could also seek damages which could result in a product liability claim, which would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. In addition, defects could result in significant costs. See “Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us.” To the extent that we rely on outside suppliers to manufacture or assemble and test our products, we may have a reduced ability to directly control product delivery schedules and quality assurance, which could result in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could delay shipments or increase costs. Commodity Prices We are also subject to risk from fluctuating market prices of certain commodity raw materials that are incorporated into our end products or used by our suppliers to manufacture our end products. Supplies for such commodities may from time to time become restricted, or general market factors and conditions may affect pricing of such commodities. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and competitive position will be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability, in a timely and cost-effective manner, to develop and introduce new products and enhancements to our existing products. We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometries. In addition, the development of new silicon devices is highly complex, and due to supply chain cross-dependencies and other issues, we may experience delays in completing the development, production and introduction of our new products. Our ability to adapt to changes and to anticipate future standards, and the rate of adoption and acceptance of those standards, will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and prospects for growth. We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards. Our success will also depend on the ability of our customers to develop new products and enhance existing products for the markets they serve and to introduce and promote those products successfully in a timely manner. Even if new and enhanced products are introduced to the market, we and our customers may not be able to achieve market acceptance of them. Our gross margin and results of operations may be adversely affected in the future by a number of factors, including decreases in average selling prices of products over time and shifts in our product mix. The products we develop and sell are primarily used for high-volume applications. As a result, the prices of those products have historically decreased rapidly. In addition, more recently introduced products tend to have higher associated costs because of initial overall development and production ramp. Therefore, over time, we may not be able to maintain or improve our gross margins. Our financial results could suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by other means, including cost reductions through efficiencies, introduction of higher margin products and increased volume of sales. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain customers certain price concessions, which could cause our average selling prices and gross margins to decline. In the past, we have reduced the average selling prices of our products in anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or by our competitors and other factors. We expect that we will continue to have to reduce prices in the future. Moreover, because of the wide price differences across the markets we serve, the mix and types of performance capabilities of our products sold may affect the average selling prices of our products and have a substantial impact on our revenue and gross margin. We may enter new markets in which a significant amount of competition exists, and this may require us to sell our products with lower gross margins than our established businesses. In addition, these new markets may have lower standard gross margins than the traditional markets we have served. If we are successful in growing revenue in these markets, our overall gross margin may decline. Fluctuations in the mix and types of our products may also affect the extent to which we are able to recover the fixed costs and investments associated with a particular product, and as a result can harm our financial results. Additionally, because we do not operate our own manufacturing, assembly or testing facilities, we may not be able to reduce our costs as rapidly as companies that operate their own facilities, and our costs may even increase, which could also reduce our gross margins. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties, and if we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our gross margin; conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potentially in loss of market share and damaged customer relationships. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Customers can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. 18 Table of Contents Due to their inability to predict demand or other reasons, some of our customers may accumulate excess inventories and, as a consequence, defer purchase of our products. We cannot accurately predict what or how many products our customers will need in the future. Anticipating demand is difficult because our customers face unpredictable demand for their own products and are increasingly focused more on cash preservation and tighter inventory management. In addition, as an increasing number of our chips are being incorporated into consumer products, we anticipate greater fluctuations in demand for our products, which makes it more difficult to forecast customer demand. We place orders with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. For example, our ability to accurately forecast customer demand may be impaired by the delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle. The sales cycle for many of our products is long and requires us to invest significant resources with each potential customer without any assurance of sales to that customer. Our sales cycle typically begins with an extended evaluation and test period, also known as qualification, during which our products undergo rigorous reliability testing by our customers. Qualification is typically followed by an extended development period by our customers and an additional three to nine month period before a customer commences volume production of equipment incorporating our products. This lengthy sales cycle creates the risk that our customers will decide to cancel or change product plans for products incorporating our integrated circuits prior to completion, which makes it even more difficult to forecast customer demand. Our products are incorporated into complex devices and systems, which may create supply chain cross-dependencies. For example, in fiscal 2012, many areas of Thailand sustained massive damage from flooding, which disrupted the global supply chain for HDDs. Due to cross dependencies, any supply chain disruptions could negatively impact the demand for our products in the short term. We have a limited ability to predict the timing of a supply chain correction. In addition, the market share of our customers could be adversely impacted on a long-term basis due to any continued supply chain disruption, which could negatively affect our results of operations. If we overestimate customer demand, our excess or obsolete inventory may increase significantly, which would reduce our gross margin and adversely affect our financial results. The risk of obsolescence and/or excess inventory is heightened for devices designed for consumer electronics due to the rapidly changing market for these types of products. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would miss revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, any future significant cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products could materially and adversely affect our profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. If we fail to appropriately scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, our business and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. To achieve our business objectives, it may be necessary from time to time for us to expand or contract our operations. In the future, we may not be able to scale our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers. In that event, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. Conversely, if we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and such demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expected, the rate of increase in our costs and operating expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if such demand does not materialize at the pace which we expect, we may be required to scale down our business through expense and headcount reductions as well as facility consolidations or closures that could result in restructuring charges that would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Because many of our expenses are fixed in the short-term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease 19 Table of Contents our expenses in a timely manner to offset any decrease in customer demand. If customer demand does not increase as anticipated, our profitability could be adversely affected due to our higher expense levels. Our past growth has placed, and any future long-term growth is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To implement our current business and product plans, we will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort. Although we have an enterprise resource planning system to help us improve our planning and management processes, we anticipate that we will also need to continue to implement and improve a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, as well as additional procedures and other internal management systems. These systems can be time consuming and expensive to implement, increase management responsibilities and divert management attention. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, we may be unable to scale our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, or conversely, we may scale our business too quickly and the rate of increase in our costs and expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, either of which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted by global economic conditions, which may cause a decline in the market price of our common shares. We operate in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. From time to time, this industry has experienced significant demand downturns. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories and sometimes accelerated erosion of prices, including as a result of volatile global economic conditions. These factors could cause substantial fluctuations in our net revenue, gross margin, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, during these downturns some competitors may become more aggressive in their pricing practices, which would adversely impact our gross margin. Any downturns in the current environment may be severe and prolonged, and any failure of the markets in which we operate to fully recover from downturns could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor industry is also subject to periodic increases in demand and supply constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products. Accordingly, our results of operations may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor industry, which could cause fluctuations in our stock price. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or recovery or the impact of any such events on our vendors, customers or us. If the economy or markets in which we operate deteriorate from current levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, the combination of our lengthy sales cycle coupled with challenging macroeconomic conditions could adversely impact our results of operations. We may experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses as a result of transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies. In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that the foundries that we use will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in this transition or fail to 20 Table of Contents efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third-party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short-term adverse impact on our results of operations, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip. We are exposed to potential impairment charges on certain assets. We had approximately $2.0 billion of goodwill and $30.7 million of acquired intangible assets, net on our balance sheet as of January 31, 2015. Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we are required to review our intangible assets including goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. We perform an assessment of goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. We have only one reporting unit, and the fair value of the reporting unit is determined by taking our market capitalization as determined through quoted market prices and as adjusted for a control premium and other relevant factors. If our fair value declines to below our carrying value, we could incur significant goodwill impairment charges, which could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, from time to time, we have made investments in private companies. If the companies that we invest in are unable to execute their plans and succeed in their respective markets, we may not benefit from such investments, and we could potentially lose the amounts we invest. We evaluate our investment portfolio on a regular basis to determine if impairments have occurred. If the operations of any businesses that we have acquired declines significantly, we could incur significant intangible asset impairment charges. Impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations in any period. We depend on key personnel to manage our business, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel or attract additional qualified personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel. The competition for qualified technical personnel with significant experience in the design, development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of integrated circuits is intense, and the inability to attract qualified personnel, including hardware and software engineers and sales and marketing personnel could delay the development and introduction of and harm our ability to sell our products. Additionally, we typically do not enter into employment agreements with any of our key technical personnel and the loss of such personnel could harm our business, as their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. As a result of our global operations, we face additional risks, which may harm our results of operations, because a majority of our products and our customers’ products are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. A substantial portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States and, as a result, we are subject to foreign business, political and economic risks. All of our products are manufactured outside of the United States. Our current qualified integrated circuit foundries are located in the same region within Taiwan, and our primary assembly and test subcontractors are located in the Pacific Rim region. In addition, many of our customers are located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, which further exposes us to foreign risks. Sales to customers located in Asia represented approximately 96% of our net revenue in fiscal 2015, 95% of our net revenue in fiscal 2014 and 90% of our net revenue in fiscal 2013. 21 Table of Contents We also have substantial operations outside of the United States. These operations are directly influenced by the political and economic conditions of the region in which they are located, and with respect to Israel, possible military hostilities, such as the recent turmoil in the region, that could affect our operations there. We anticipate that our manufacturing, assembly, testing and sales outside of the United States will continue to account for a substantial portion of our operations and revenue in future periods. Accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with international operations, including: • political, social and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; • compliance with domestic and foreign export and import regulations, and difficulties in obtaining and complying with domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; • local laws and practices that favor local companies, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • natural disasters, including earthquakes, tsunamis and floods; • trade restrictions or higher tariffs; • transportation delays; • difficulties of managing distributors; • less effective protection of intellectual property than is afforded to us in the United States or other developed countries; • inadequate local infrastructure; and • exposure to local banking, currency control and other financial-related risks. As a result of having global operations, the sudden disruption of the supply chain and/or the manufacture of our customer’s products caused by events outside of our control could impact our results of operations by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver our products. For example, during fiscal 2012, the earthquake and tsunami that affected Japan disrupted the global supply chain for certain components important to our products and the flooding in Thailand affected the supply chain and manufacturing of the products for a number of our customers. Moreover, the international nature of our business subjects us to risk associated with the fluctuation of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies. Decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus currencies in jurisdictions where we have large fixed costs or our third-party manufacturers have significant cost will increase the cost of such operations, which could harm our results of operations. For example, we have large fixed costs in Israel, which will become greater if the U.S. dollar declines in value versus the Israeli shekel. On the other hand, substantially all of our sales have been denominated in U.S. dollars. Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us. We have experienced, from time to time, hardware and software defects and bugs associated with the introduction of our highly complex products. Despite our testing procedures, we cannot assure you that errors will not be found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments in the future, which could result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, material recall and replacement costs, delay in revenue recognition or loss of revenues, writing down the inventory of defective products, the diversion of the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts, our having to defend against litigation related to defective products or related property damage or personal injury, and damage to our reputation in the 22 Table of Contents industry that could adversely affect our relationships with our customers. In addition, the process of identifying a recalled product in devices that have been widely distributed may be lengthy and require significant resources and we may have difficulty identifying the end customers of the defective products in the field, which may cause us to incur significant replacement costs, contract damage claims from our customers and further reputational harm. Any of these problems could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Any potential future acquisitions, strategic investments, divestitures, mergers or joint ventures may subject us to significant risks, any of which could harm our business. Our long-term strategy may include identifying and acquiring, investing in or merging with suitable candidates on acceptable terms, or divesting of certain business lines or activities. In particular, over time, we may acquire, make investments in, or merge with providers of product offerings that complement our business or may terminate such activities. Mergers, acquisitions and divestitures include a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including but not limited to: • diversion of management attention from running our existing business; • possible material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting; • increased expenses including legal, administrative and compensation expenses related to newly hired or terminated employees; • increased costs to integrate the technology, personnel, customer base and business practices of the acquired company with us; • potential exposure to material liabilities not discovered in the due diligence process; • potential adverse effects on reported operating results due to possible write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets associated with acquisitions; and • unavailability of acquisition financing or unavailability of such financing on reasonable terms. Any acquired business, technology, service or product could significantly under-perform relative to our expectations, and may not achieve the benefits we expect from possible acquisitions. For all these reasons, our pursuit of an acquisition, investment, divestiture, merger or joint venture could cause its actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. We rely on third-party distributors and manufacturers’ representatives and the failure of these distributors and manufacturers’ representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future sales. From time to time, we enter into relationships with distributors and manufacturers’ representatives to sell our products, and we are unable to predict the extent to which these partners will be successful in marketing and selling our products. Moreover, many of our distributors and manufacturers’ representatives also market and sell competing products, and may terminate their relationships with us at any time. Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional distributors or manufacturers’ representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. If we cannot retain or attract quality distributors or manufacturers’ representatives, our sales and results of operations will be harmed. Changes in existing taxation benefits, rules or practices may adversely affect our financial results. Changes in existing taxation benefits, rules or practices may also have a significant effect on our reported results. For example, both the U.S. Congress and the G-20 (Group of Twenty Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors) may consider legislation affecting the taxation of foreign corporations and such legislation if enacted might adversely affect our future tax liabilities and have a material impact on our results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Furthermore, in prior years, we have entered into agreements in certain foreign jurisdictions that if certain criteria are met, the foreign jurisdiction will provide a more favorable tax rate than their current statutory rate. For example, we have obtained an undertaking from the Minister of Finance of Bermuda that in the event Bermuda enacts legislation imposing tax computed on profits, income, or capital asset, gain or appreciation, then the imposition of any such taxes will not apply to us until March 31, 2035. Additionally, our Singapore subsidiary qualified for Pioneer status until it expired in June 2014. However, we re-negotiated with the Singapore government and in fiscal 2015, they extended the Development and Expansion Incentive (“DEI”) until June 2019. Furthermore, under the Israeli Encouragement law of “approved or benefited enterprise,” two branches of Marvell Israel (M.I.S.L) Ltd. are entitled to, and have certain existing programs that qualify as, approved and benefited tax programs that include reduced tax rates and exemption of certain income through fiscal 2027. Our subsidiary in Switzerland also has tax incentives on revenues from research and design and wafer supply trading activities that expire in fiscal 2016. If any of our tax agreements in any of these foreign jurisdictions were terminated, our results of our operations and profitability would be harmed. We rely upon the performance of our information technology systems to process, transmit, store and protect electronic information, and the failure of any critical information technology system may result in serious harm to our reputation, business, results of operations and/or financial condition. We are heavily dependent on our technology infrastructure and maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. These information technology systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including natural disasters, viruses, destructive or inadequate code, malware, power failures, cyber attacks, and other events. We have implemented processes for systems under our control to mitigate risks and while we believe these systems are appropriately controlled, processes for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe. We may incur significant costs in order to implement, maintain and/or update security systems that we feel are necessary to protect our information systems or we may miscalculate the level investment necessary to protect our systems adequately. To the extent that any system failure, accident or security breach results in disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the theft, loss or disclosure of, or damage to our data or confidential information, including our intellectual property, our reputation, business, results of operations and/or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete. We believe one of our key competitive advantages results from our collection of proprietary technologies that we have developed and acquired since our inception. If we fail to protect these intellectual property rights, competitors could sell products based on technology that we have developed that could harm our competitive position and decrease our revenues. We believe that the protection of our intellectual property rights is and will continue to be important to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, contractual provisions, confidentiality agreements, licenses and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. We have been issued a significant number of U.S. and foreign patents and have a significant number of pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. However, a patent may not be issued as a result of any applications or, if issued, claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Despite our efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or proprietary technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and the steps that we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours, which would adversely impact our business and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Certain of our software (as well as that of our customers) may be derived from so-called “open source” software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Open source software is made available under licenses that impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, and/or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of license customarily used to protect our intellectual property. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software, in the event that the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work if the license is terminated. We must comply with a variety of existing and future laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs on us and may adversely affect our business. We are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of those products. In addition, we are also subject to various industry requirements restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. Although our management systems are designed to maintain compliance, we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws and regulations. If we violate or fail to comply with any of them, a range of consequences could result, including fines, import/export restrictions, sales limitations, criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. We and our customers are also subject to various import and export laws and regulations. Government export regulations apply to the encryption or other features contained in some of our products. If we fail to continue to receive licenses or otherwise comply with these regulations, we may be unable to manufacture the affected products at foreign foundries or ship these products to certain customers, or we may incur penalties or fines. There is also regulation to improve the transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals coming from the conflict zones in and around the Democratic Republic of Congo. New U.S. legislation includes disclosure requirements regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries and procedures regarding a manufacturer’s efforts to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals. The implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices, including our products. As a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict-free metals, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices, which could adversely affect our operations and product margins. Additionally, if we are unable to sufficiently source conflict-free metals, we may face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that the products they purchase from us are conflict-free, which may harm our sales and operating results. The costs of complying (including the costs of any investigations, auditing and monitoring) with these laws could adversely affect our current or future business. In addition, future regulations may become more stringent or costly and our compliance costs and potential liabilities could increase, which may harm our current or future business. There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends at all or in any particular amount, and statutory requirements under Bermuda Law, as well as ongoing litigation, may require us to defer payment of declared dividends. In May 2012, we announced the declaration of our first quarterly cash dividend. Future payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend on our common shares will be subject to, among other things, the best interests of our 25 Table of Contents company, our results of operations, cash balances and future cash requirements, financial condition, statutory requirements under Bermuda law, developments in our ongoing litigation with CMU and other factors that the board of directors may deem relevant. Our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. In addition, developments in ongoing litigation could affect our ability to make a dividend payment on a declared payment date until such time as we can meet statutory requirements under Bermuda law. A reduction in, a delay of, or elimination of our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our share price. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be filed on a timely basis and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. We believe that effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. However, a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting will not necessarily prevent all error and all fraud. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. In addition, we may modify the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls, which could affect the overall effectiveness or evaluation of the control system in the future by us or our independent registered public accounting firm. Additionally, we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, as controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to provide reliance financial reports, or to detect and prevent fraud, which would harm our business. Two of our officers own a large percentage of our voting stock and, together with another significant shareholder, are related by blood or marriage. These factors may allow the officers and directors as a group or the related individuals to influence the election of directors and the approval or disapproval of significant corporate actions. Dr. Sehat Sutardja, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Weili Dai, who serves as our President, are husband and wife. Together, these two officers, along with a shareholder that is related to Dr. Sutardja, held approximately 20% of our outstanding common shares as of December 31, 2014. As a result, if these individuals act together, they may influence the election of our directors and the approval or disapproval of any significant corporate actions that require shareholder approval. This influence over our affairs might be adverse to the interests of other shareholders. For example, the voting power of these individuals could have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of us on terms that other shareholders may desire. Under Bermuda law, all of our officers, in exercising their powers and discharging their duties, must act honestly and in good faith with a view to our best interests and exercise the care, diligence and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. Majority shareholders do not owe fiduciary duties to minority shareholders. As a result, the minority shareholders will not have a direct claim against the majority shareholders in the event the majority shareholders take actions that damage the interests of minority shareholders. Class actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of Bermuda, although there is some suggestion that their use may be gaining favor. Bermuda law permits, in exceptional circumstances, the bringing of derivative actions, i.e., for a shareholder to bring an action in our name, when it would otherwise be an action that the company would bring itself. In order to bring a derivative action, a shareholder would have to show (i) “fraud on the minority,” that is acts which amount to an unconscionable use of majority power resulting or likely to result in loss or unfair discriminatory treatment of the minority; and (ii) that the alleged wrongdoers have control of the company. In addition, a shareholder may be able to bring a claim when the shareholder alleges that the wrong has been done to the shareholder personally in his or her capacity as shareholder. Typically, shareholders’ personal claims arise from a breach or threatened breach of the bye-laws. 26 Table of Contents The Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, as amended, provides that when one or more shareholders believes the affairs of a company are being conducted in a manner which is oppressive or prejudicial to the interest of some of such shareholders and others, a Bermuda court, upon petition, may make such order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company’s affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or by the company, and in the case of a purchase of the shares by the company, for the reduction accordingly of the company’s capital or otherwise. We are subject to the risks of owning real property. Our buildings in Santa Clara, California; Singapore; Etoy, Switzerland; and Shanghai, China subject us to the risks of owning real property, which include: • the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems; • adverse changes in the value of these properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the neighborhood in which the property is located, or other factors; • the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic and other legal or regulatory requirements; • the potential disruption of our business and operations arising from or connected with a relocation due to moving to or renovating the facility; • increased cash commitments for improvements to the buildings or the property or both; • increased operating expenses for the buildings or the property or both; • possible disputes with tenants or other third parties related to the buildings or the property or both; and • the risk of financial loss in excess of amounts covered by insurance, or uninsured risks, such as the loss caused by damage to the buildings as a result of earthquakes, floods and or other natural disasters. Additionally, the second surety bond and commitment from the sureties are secured by our campus located in Santa Clara, California. See “We are currently involved in a patent litigation action involving CMU and, if we do not prevail on appeal of the district court judgment, we could be liable for substantial damages.” As we carry only limited insurance coverage, any incurred liability resulting from uncovered claims could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to fully offset losses from covered incidents, and we do not have coverage for certain losses. For example, there is very limited coverage available with respect to the services provided by our third-party foundries and assembly and test subcontractors. In the event of a natural disaster (such as an earthquake or tsunami), political or military turmoil, widespread health issues or other significant disruptions to their operations, insurance may not adequately protect us from this exposure. We believe our existing insurance coverage is consistent with common practice, economic considerations and availability considerations. If our insurance coverage is insufficient to protect us against unforeseen catastrophic losses, any uncovered losses could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are incorporated in Bermuda, and, as a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. In addition, our Bye-Laws contain a waiver of claims or rights of action by our shareholders against our officers and directors, which will severely limit our shareholders’ right to assert a claim against our officers and directors under Bermuda law. We are organized under the laws of Bermuda. As a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders to affect service of process within the United States upon us, or to enforce against us in U.S. courts judgments based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. There is significant doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors 27 Table of Contents or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state or hear actions brought in Bermuda against us or those persons based on those laws. The United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not be automatically enforceable in Bermuda. Our Bye-Laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers and directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties with or for us, other than with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director or to any matter arising under U.S. federal securities laws. This waiver will limit the rights of our shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act complained of involves fraud or dishonesty or arises as a result of a breach of U.S. federal securities laws. Therefore, so long as acts of business judgment do not involve fraud or dishonesty or arise as a result of a breach of U.S. federal securities laws, they will not be subject to shareholder claims under Bermuda law. For example, shareholders will not have claims against officers and directors for a breach of trust, unless the breach rises to the level of fraud or dishonesty, or arises as a result of a breach of U.S. federal securities laws. Our Bye-Laws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in corporate control, even if the change in corporate control would benefit our shareholders. Our Bye-Laws contain change in corporate control provisions, which include: • authorizing the issuance of preferred stock without shareholder approval; and • a shareholder vote requiring the approval of two-thirds of votes cast in person or by proxy to approve any business combination in the event the action is not approved by at least 662/3% of the directors holding office at the date of the Board meeting to approve the action. These foregoing provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be a benefit to our shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 