Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview” for a discussion of trends and factors affecting the Company and the airline industry. The Company is managed as one cohesive business unit, but employs various strategies specific to the geographic regions in which it operates. See “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 20 — Geographic Regions” for a discussion of Northwest’s operations by geographic region. Chapter 11 Proceedings Background and General Bankruptcy Matters. The following discussion provides general background information regarding the Company’s Chapter 11 cases, and is not intended to be an exhaustive summary. Detailed information pertaining to the bankruptcy filings may be obtained at http://www.nwa-restructuring.com. See also “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 6 — Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 Proceedings.” Information contained on the Company’s Web site is not incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K. On September 14, 2005 (the “Petition Date”), NWA Corp. and 12 of its direct and indirect subsidiaries (collectively, the “Debtors”) filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code with the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (the “Bankruptcy Court”). Subsequently, on September 30, 2005, NWA Aircraft Finance, Inc., an indirect subsidiary of NWA Corp., also filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11. 2 On May 18, 2007, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving and confirming the Debtors’ First Amended Joint and Consolidated Plan of Reorganization Under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code (as confirmed, the “Plan” or “Plan of Reorganization”). The Plan became effective and the Debtors emerged from bankruptcy protection on May 31, 2007 (the “Effective Date”). On the Effective Date, the Company implemented fresh-start reporting in accordance with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 90-7, Financial Reporting by Entities in Reorganization Under the Bankruptcy Code (“SOP 90-7”). As a result of the application of fresh-start reporting in accordance with SOP 90-7 upon the Company’s emergence from bankruptcy on May 31, 2007, the financial statements prior to June 1, 2007 are not comparable with the financial statements for periods on or after June 1, 2007. References to “Successor Company” refer to the Company on or after June 1, 2007, after giving effect to the application of fresh-start reporting. References to “Predecessor Company” refer to the Company prior to June 1, 2007. See “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 7 — Fresh-Start Reporting” for further details. The Plan generally provided for the full payment or reinstatement of allowed administrative claims, priority claims, and secured claims, and the distribution of new common stock of the Successor Company to the Debtors’ creditors, employees and others in satisfaction of allowed unsecured claims. The Plan contemplates the issuance of approximately 277 million shares of new common stock by the Successor Company (out of the 400 million shares of new common stock authorized under its amended and restated certificate of incorporation). Northwest had reserved 6.4 million shares of common stock for future distributions to holders of allowed general, unsecured claims when disputed claims are resolved. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, each outstanding share of Northwest common stock (including shares issuable pursuant to Northwest’s Plan of Reorganization) was converted into and became exchangeable for 1.25 shares of Delta common stock. Accordingly, shares issuable pursuant to Northwest’s Plan of Reorganization totaled 8.0 million after being adjusted for the exchange ratio. In connection with the consummation of the Plan of Reorganization, on the Effective Date, the Company’s existing $1.225 billion Senior Corporate Credit Facility (“Bank Credit Facility”) was converted into exit financing in accordance with its terms. See “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 9 — Long-Term Debt and Short-Term Borrowings” for additional information. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and results of operations are dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. High fuel costs or cost increases could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. Likewise, significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel would materially adversely affect our operations and operating results. Our operating results are significantly impacted by changes in the price and availability of aircraft fuel. Fuel prices have increased substantially in the last five years and spiked at record high levels in 2008 before falling dramatically during the latter part of the year. In 2008, our average fuel price per gallon rose 76.1% to $3.61, as compared to an average price of $2.05 in 2007, which is significantly higher than our average price of $2.02 in 2006, and significantly higher than our prices in the earlier part of this decade. The fuel costs represented 32.2% and 32.5% of our operating expenses in 2008 and 2007, respectively. These increasing costs have had a significant negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to pass along the increased costs of fuel to our customers is limited by the competitive nature of the airline industry. We often have not been able to increase our fares to offset the effect of increased fuel costs in the past and we may not be able to do so in the future. In addition, our aircraft fuel purchase contracts do not provide material protection against price increases or assure the availability of our fuel supplies. We purchase most of our aircraft fuel under contracts that establish the price based on various market indices. We also purchase aircraft fuel on the spot market, from offshore sources and under contracts that permit the refiners to set the price. To attempt to manage our exposure to changes in fuel prices, we use derivative instruments, which are comprised of crude oil, heating oil and jet fuel swap and collar contracts, though we may not be able to successfully manage this exposure. Depending on the type of hedging instrument used, our ability to benefit from declines in fuel prices may be limited. We are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft fuel, but it is impossible to predict the future availability or price of aircraft fuel. Weather-related events, natural disasters, political disruptions or wars involving oil-producing countries, changes in governmental policy concerning aircraft fuel production, transportation or marketing, changes in aircraft fuel production capacity, environmental concerns and other unpredictable events may result in additional fuel supply shortages and fuel price increases in the future. Additional increases in fuel costs or disruptions in fuel supplies could have additional negative effects on us. 3 The global economic recession has resulted in weaker demand for air travel and may create challenges for us that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As the effects of the global economic recession have been felt in our domestic and international markets, we are experiencing weaker demand for air travel. Our demand began to slow during the latter part of the year, and we believe the worsening economic conditions could reduce U.S. airline industry revenues by 8-12% in 2009. As a result, Delta has announced plans to further reduce consolidated capacity by 6-8% in 2009 compared to 2008 (which reflects planned consolidated domestic capacity reductions of 8-10% and international capacity reductions of 3-5%), and has offered voluntary workforce reduction programs for eligible employees, including our employees. Demand for air travel could continue to fall if the global economic recession continues, and overall demand may fall much lower than we are able prudently to reduce capacity. The weakness in the United States and international economies could have a significant negative impact on our future results of operations. The global financial crisis may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system has had and may continue to have an impact on our business and our financial condition. For example, our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, the credit crisis could have an impact on our remaining fuel hedging contracts or our interest hedging contracts if counterparties are forced to file for bankruptcy or are otherwise unable to perform their obligations. Our obligation to post collateral in connection with our fuel hedge contracts may have a substantial impact on our short-term liquidity. Under fuel hedge contracts that we may enter into from time to time, counterparties to those contracts may require us to fund the margin associated with any loss position on the contracts. If fuel prices continue to fall, we may be required to post a significant amount of additional collateral, which could have an impact on the level of our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments until those contracts are settled. Our substantial indebtedness may limit our financial and operating activities and may adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs. We have substantial indebtedness, which could: · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to the payment of principal, and interest on, indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes; · make us more vulnerable to economic downturns, adverse industry conditions or catastrophic external events; · limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures; · reduce our flexibility in planning for or responding to changing business and economic conditions; and/or · place us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that have relatively less debt than we have. In addition, a substantial level of indebtedness, particularly because substantially all of our assets are currently subject to liens, could limit our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. We have historically had substantial liquidity needs in the operation of our business. These liquidity needs could vary significantly and may be affected by general economic conditions, industry trends, performance and many other factors not within our control. Certain of our credit facilities include financial and other covenants that impose restrictions on our financial and business operations. Our exit facility financing credit agreement and our liquidity facility credit agreement each contain financial covenants that require us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, minimum unrestricted cash reserves and minimum collateral coverage ratios. In addition, each of the credit facilities contains other negative covenants customary for such financings. These covenants may have a material adverse impact on our operations. In addition, if we fail to comply with the covenants in any credit facility and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result under that facility. 4 Each of the credit facilities also contains other events of default customary for such financings. If an event of default were to occur, the lenders could, among other things, declare outstanding borrowings under the respective credit facilities immediately due and payable. We cannot provide assurance that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance borrowings under any of the credit facilities if such borrowings were accelerated upon an event of default. In addition, an event of default or declaration of acceleration under any of the credit facilities could also result in an event of default under other financing agreements of Delta and us. Employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect our operations. Our business is labor intensive, utilizing large numbers of pilots, flight attendants and other personnel. Approximately 80% of our workforce is unionized. Strikes or labor disputes with our unionized employees may adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Relations between air carriers and labor unions in the U.S. are governed by the Railway Labor Act, which provides that a collective bargaining agreement between an airline and a labor union does not expire, but instead becomes amendable as of a stated date. The Railway Labor Act generally prohibits strikes or other types of self-help actions both before and after a collective bargaining agreement becomes amendable, unless and until the collective bargaining processes required by the Railway Labor Act have been exhausted. In addition, if we or our affiliates are unable to reach agreement with any of our unionized work groups on future negotiations regarding the terms of their collective bargaining agreements or if additional segments of our workforce become unionized, they may be subject to work interruptions or stoppages, subject to the requirements of the Railway Labor Act. Likewise, if third party regional carriers with whom we have contract carrier agreements are unable to reach agreement with their unionized work groups on current or future negotiations regarding the terms of their collective bargaining agreements, those carriers may be subject to work interruptions or stoppages, subject to the requirements of the Railway Labor Act, which could have a negative impact on our operations. The ability to realize fully the anticipated benefits of the Merger may depend on the successful integration of the businesses of Delta and Northwest. The Merger involves the combination of two companies which operated as independent public companies prior to the merger. The combined company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating its business practices and operations. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, diversion of each company’s management’s attention, the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. The integration of the Delta and Northwest workforces will present significant challenges, including the possibility of labor-related disagreements that may adversely affect the combined company’s operations. Our successful integration with Delta and achievement of the anticipated benefits of the combination depend significantly on integrating our employee groups into Delta and on maintaining productive employee relations. The integration of our workforces will be challenging in part because approximately 80% of the Northwest employees are represented by labor unions while, among U.S. based employees, only the Pre-Merger Delta pilots and flight dispatchers (who combined constitute approximately 17% of the total Pre-Merger Delta employees) are currently represented by labor unions. The integration of the workforces of the two airlines will require the resolution of potentially difficult issues relating to representation of various work groups and the relative seniority of the work groups at each carrier. Unexpected delay, expense or other challenges to integrating the workforces could impact the expected synergies from the combination of Delta and NWA Corp. and affect the financial performance of the combined company. Interruptions or disruptions in service at one of our hub airports could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our business is heavily dependent on our operations at our hub airports in Detroit, Memphis, Minneapolis/St. Paul and Tokyo-Narita. Each of these hub operations includes flights that gather and distribute traffic from markets in the geographic region surrounding the hub to other major cities and to other Delta hubs. A significant interruption or disruption in service at one of our other hubs could have a serious impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 5 We are increasingly dependent on technology in our operations, and if our technology fails or we are unable to continue to invest in new technology, our business may be adversely affected. We have become increasingly dependent on technology initiatives to reduce costs and to enhance customer service in order to compete in the current business environment. For example, we have made significant investments in our website, check-in kiosks and related initiatives. The performance and reliability of the technology are critical to our ability to attract and retain customers and our ability to compete effectively. These initiatives will continue to require significant capital investments in our technology infrastructure to deliver these expected benefits. If we are unable to make these investments, our business and operations could be negatively affected. In addition, we may face challenges associated with integrating complex systems and technologies that support the separate operations of Delta and Northwest. If we are unable to manage these challenges effectively, our business and results of operation could be negatively affected. In addition, any internal technology error or failure or large scale external interruption in technology infrastructure we depend on, such as power, telecommunications or the internet, may disrupt our technology network. Any individual, sustained or repeated failure of technology could impact our customer service and result in increased costs. Like all companies, our technology systems and related data may be vulnerable to a variety of sources of interruption due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers and other security issues. While we have in place, and continue to invest in, technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to prevent a business disruption and its adverse financial consequences to our business. If we experience losses of senior management personnel and other key employees, our operating results could be adversely affected. We are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of our officers and other key employees to execute our business plans. If we experience a substantial turnover in our leadership and other key employees, our performance could be materially adversely impacted. Furthermore, we may be unable to attract and retain additional qualified executives as needed in the future. We are at risk of losses and adverse publicity stemming from any accident involving our aircraft. An aircraft crash or other accident could expose us to significant tort liability. The insurance we carry to cover damages arising from any future accidents may be inadequate. In the event that the insurance is not adequate, we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. In addition, any accident involving an aircraft that we operate or an aircraft that is operated by an airline that is one of our codeshare partners could create a public perception that our aircraft are not safe or reliable, which could harm our reputation, result in air travelers being reluctant to fly on our aircraft and harm our business. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes is subject to limitation and may be further limited as a result of the Merger and the employee equity issuance, together with other equity transactions. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses (“NOLs”), to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders’ lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years). As of December 31, 2008, Delta reported approximately $9.2 billion of federal and state NOL carryforwards. As of December 31, 2008, we reported approximately $5.3 billion of federal and state NOL carryforwards. Both Delta and NWA Corp. experienced an ownership change in 2007 as a result of their respective plans of reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Delta and NWA Corp. elected out of Section 382(l)(5) of the Code, in which case Section 382(l)(6) of the Code will be applicable to the ownership changes that occurred pursuant to our respective plans of reorganization. As a result of the Merger, NWA Corp. experienced a subsequent ownership change. Delta also may experience a subsequent ownership change as a result of the Merger and the issuance of equity to employees in connection with the Merger, together with other transactions involving the sale of our common stock within the testing period. Even if the Merger and the employee equity issuance did not result in an ownership change, the Merger and the employee equity issuance has significantly increased the likelihood there will be a subsequent ownership change for Delta as a result of transactions involving sale of our common stock. 6 The NWA Corp. ownership change resulting from the Merger and the potential occurrence of a second ownership change for Delta could limit the ability to utilize pre-change NOLs that are not currently subject to limitation, and could further limit the ability to utilize NOLs that are currently subject to limitation. The amount of the annual limitation generally is equal to the value of the stock of the corporation immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the adjusted federal tax-exempt rate, set by the Internal Revenue Service. Limitations imposed on the ability to use NOLs to offset future taxable income could cause U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such NOLs to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. Risk Factors Relating to the Airline Industry The airline industry is highly competitive and, if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results will be materially adversely affected. We face significant competition with respect to routes, services and fares. Our domestic routes are subject to competition from both new and established carriers, some of which have lower costs than we do and provide service at low fares to destinations served by us. In particular, we face significant competition at several of our hub airports from other carriers. In addition, our operations at our hub airports also compete with operations at the hubs of other airlines that are located in close proximity to our hubs. We also face competition in smaller to medium-sized markets from regional jet operators. The growth of low-cost carriers, including Southwest, AirTran and JetBlue, in the U.S. has placed significant competitive pressure on network carriers in the domestic market. In addition, other network carriers have also significantly reduced their costs over the last several years. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure. If we cannot maintain our costs at a competitive level, then our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In light of increased jet fuel costs and other issues in recent years, we expect consolidation to occur in the airline industry. As a result of consolidation, we may face significant competition from larger carriers that may be able to generate higher amounts of revenue and compete more efficiently. In addition, we compete with foreign carriers, both on interior U.S. routes, due to marketing and codesharing arrangements, and in international markets. International marketing alliances formed by domestic and foreign carriers, including the Star Alliance (among United Airlines, Lufthansa German Airlines and others and which Continental has announced its intention to join in October 2009) and the oneworld Alliance (among American Airlines, British Airways and others) have significantly increased competition in international markets. The adoption of liberalized Open Skies Aviation Agreements with an increasing number of countries around the world, including in particular the Open Skies agreement with the Member States of the European Union, has accelerated this trend. Through marketing and codesharing arrangements with U.S. carriers, foreign carriers have obtained access to interior U.S. passenger traffic. Similarly, U.S. carriers have increased their ability to sell international transportation, such as transatlantic services to and beyond European cities, through alliances with international carriers. Terrorist attacks or international hostilities may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 caused fundamental and permanent changes in the airline industry, including substantial revenue declines and cost increases, which resulted in industry-wide liquidity issues. Additional terrorist attacks or fear of such attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, would negatively affect us and the airline industry. The potential negative effects include increased security, insurance and other costs and lost revenue from increased ticket refunds and decreased ticket sales. Our financial resources might not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any further terrorist attacks or other international hostilities involving the U.S. The airline industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and new regulations may increase our operating costs. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that result in significant costs. For instance, the FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that necessitate significant expenditures. We expect to continue incurring expenses to comply with the FAA’s regulations. 7 Other laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have also been imposed from time to time that significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues. For example, the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, which became law in November 2001, mandates the federalization of certain airport security procedures and imposes additional security requirements on airports and airlines, most of which are funded by a per ticket tax on passengers and a tax on airlines. The federal government has on several occasions proposed a significant increase in the per ticket tax. The proposed ticket tax increase, if implemented, could negatively impact our revenues. Proposals to address congestion issues at certain airports or in certain airspace, particularly in the Northeast U.S., have included concepts such as “congestion-based” landing fees, “slot auctions” or other alternatives that could impose a significant cost on the airlines operating in those airports or airspace and impact the ability of those airlines to respond to competitive actions by other airlines. Furthermore, events related to extreme weather delays in late 2006 and early 2007 have caused Congress and the Department of Transportation (“DOT”) to consider proposals related to airlines’ handling of lengthy flight delays during extreme weather conditions. The enactment of such proposals could have a significant negative impact on our operations. In addition, some states have also enacted or considered enacting such regulations. Future regulatory action concerning climate change and aircraft emissions could have a significant effect on the airline industry. For example, the European Commission is seeking to impose an emissions trading scheme applicable to all flights operating in the European Union, including flights to and from the U.S. Laws or regulations such as this emissions trading scheme or other U.S. or foreign governmental actions may adversely affect our operations and financial results. We and other U.S. carriers are subject to domestic and foreign laws regarding privacy of passenger and employee data that are not consistent in all countries in which we operate. In addition to the heightened level of concern regarding privacy of passenger data in the U.S., certain European government agencies are initiating inquiries into airline privacy practices. Compliance with these regulatory regimes is expected to result in additional operating costs and could impact our operations and any future expansion. Our insurance costs have increased substantially as a result of the September 11 terrorist attacks, and further increases in insurance costs or reductions in coverage could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. As a result of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, aviation insurers significantly reduced the maximum amount of insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for liability to persons (other than employees or passengers) for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events. At the same time, aviation insurers significantly increased the premiums for such coverage and for aviation insurance in general. Since September 24, 2001, the U.S. government has been providing U.S. airlines with war-risk insurance to cover losses, including those resulting from terrorism, to passengers, third parties (ground damage) and the aircraft hull. The coverage currently extends through March 31, 2009 and the Secretary of Transportation has discretion to extend coverage through May 31, 2009. The withdrawal of government support of airline war-risk insurance would require us to obtain war-risk insurance coverage commercially, if available. Such commercial insurance could have substantially less desirable coverage than that currently provided by the U.S. government, may not be adequate to protect our risk of loss from future acts of terrorism, may result in a material increase to our operating expenses or may not be obtainable at all, resulting in an interruption to our operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 8 