Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties, as well as other information in this report and our SEC filings, before you invest in our common stock. Investing in our common stock involves risk. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The following risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or that we currently believe are immaterial could also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In any case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. See also the Forward-looking Statements discussion in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Factors That May Affect Future Results Company Risks We had an accumulated deficit of $127 million as of December 31, 2005, have a history of losses, will experience losses in the future, and may not achieve or maintain profitability. Since 1997, we have incurred losses in every fiscal quarter. We will need to generate significant ongoing revenue to achieve and maintain profitability. We anticipate that our expenses will increase in the foreseeable future as we: • protect and enforce our intellectual property, including the costs of our continuing litigation against Sony Computer Entertainment; • continue to develop our technologies; • attempt to expand the market for touch-enabled technologies and products; • increase our sales and marketing efforts; and • pursue strategic relationships. If our revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, we may not achieve or maintain profitability. 17 Table of Contents Our convertible debentures provide for various events of default and change of control transactions that would entitle the selling stockholders to require us to repay the entire amount owed in cash. If an event of default or change of control occurs, we may be unable to immediately repay the amount owed, and any repayment may leave us with little or no working capital in our business. Our convertible debentures provide for various events of default, such as the termination of trading of our common stock on the Nasdaq Stock Market and specified change of control transactions. If an event of default or change of control occurs prior to maturity, we may be required to redeem all or part of the convertible debentures, including payment of applicable interest and penalties. Some of the events of default include matters over which we may have some, little, or no control. Many other events of default are described in the agreements we executed when we issued the convertible debentures. If an event of default or a change of control occurs, we may be required to repay the entire amount, plus liquidated damages, in cash. Any such repayment could leave us with little or no working capital for our business. We have not established a sinking fund for payment of our outstanding convertible debentures, nor do we anticipate doing so. Our current litigation against Sony Computer Entertainment and others is expensive, disruptive, and time consuming, and will continue to be, until resolved, and regardless of whether we are ultimately successful, could adversely affect our business. Immersion Corporation vs. Microsoft Corporation, Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. and Sony Computer Entertainment of America, Inc. On February 11, 2002, we filed a complaint against Microsoft Corporation (“Microsoft”), Sony Computer Entertainment, Inc., and Sony Computer Entertainment of America, Inc. (collectively “Sony Computer Entertainment”) in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District Court of California alleging infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 5,889,672 and 6,275,213. The case was assigned to United States District Judge Claudia Wilken. On April 4, 2002, Sony Computer Entertainment and Microsoft answered the complaint by denying the material allegations and alleging counterclaims seeking a judicial declaration that the asserted patents were invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed. Under the counterclaims, the defendants were also seeking damages for attorneys’ fees. On October 8, 2002, we filed an amended complaint, withdrawing the claim under the U.S. Patent No. 5,889,672 and adding claims under a new patent, U.S. Patent No. 6,424,333. On July 28, 2003, we announced that we had settled our legal differences with Microsoft, and both parties agreed to dismiss all claims and counterclaims relating to this matter as well as assume financial responsibility for their respective legal costs with respect to the lawsuit between us and Microsoft. On August 16, 2004, the trial against Sony Computer Entertainment commenced. On September 21, 2004, the jury returned its verdict in favor of us. The jury found all the asserted claims of the patents valid and infringed. The jury awarded us damages in the amount of $82.0 million. On January 10, 2005, the Court awarded us prejudgment interest on the damages the jury awarded at the applicable prime rate. The Court further ordered Sony Computer Entertainment to pay us a compulsory license fee at the rate of 1.37%, the ratio of the verdict amount to the amount of sales of infringing products, effective as of July 1, 2004 and through the date of Judgment. On February 9, 2005, the Court ordered that Sony Computer Entertainment provide us with sales data 15 days after the end of each quarter and clarifying that Sony Computer Entertainment shall make the ordered payment 45 days after the end of the applicable quarter. Sony Computer Entertainment has made quarterly payments to us pursuant to the Court’s orders. Although we have received payments, we may be required to return them and any future payments based on the outcome of the appeals process. On February 9, 2005, Sony Computer Entertainment filed a Notice of Appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit to appeal the Court’s January 10, 2005 order, and on February 10, 2005 Sony Computer Entertainment filed an Amended Notice of Appeal to include an appeal from the Court’s February 9, 2005 order. On January 5 and 6, 2005, the Court held a bench trial on Sony Computer Entertainment’s remaining allegations that the ’333 patent was not enforceable due to alleged inequitable conduct. On March 24, 2005, the Court resolved this issue, entering a written order finding in favor of us. On March 24, 2005, Judge Wilken also 18 Table of Contents entered judgment in our favor and awarded us $82.0 million in past damages, and pre-judgment interest in the amount of $8.7 million, for a total of $90.7 million. We were also awarded certain court costs. Court costs do not include attorneys’ fees. Additionally, the Court issued a permanent injunction against the manufacture, use, sale, or import into the United States of the infringing Sony Computer Entertainment PlayStation system consisting of the PlayStation consoles, Dual Shock controllers, and the 47 games found by the jury to infringe our patents. The Court stayed the permanent injunction pending appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The Court further ordered Sony Computer Entertainment to pay a compulsory license fee at the rate of 1.37% for the duration of the stay of the permanent injunction at the same rate and conditions as previously awarded in its interim January 10, 2005 and February 9, 2005 Orders. On April 7, 2005 pursuant to a stipulation of the parties, the Court entered an Amended Judgment to clarify that the Judgment in favor of us and against Sony Computer Entertainment also encompassed Sony Computer Entertainment’s counterclaims for declaratory relief on invalidity and unenforceability, as well as non-infringement. Sony Computer Entertainment also filed further motions seeking “judgment as a matter of a law” (JMOL) or for a new trial, and a motion for a stay of an accounting and execution of the Judgment. On May 17, 2005, Judge Wilken denied these motions. On April 27, 2005, the Court granted Sony Computer Entertainment’s request to approve a supersedeas bond, secured by a cash deposit with the Court in the amount of $102.5 million, to obtain a stay of enforcement of the Court’s Amended Judgment pending appeal. On May 17, 2005, the Court issued a minute order stating that in lieu of the supersedeas bond the Court would allow Sony Computer Entertainment to place the funds on deposit with the Court in an escrow account subject to acceptable escrow instructions. The parties have negotiated an agreement pursuant to which the funds on deposit with the Court may be deposited in an escrow account at JP Morgan Chase. On May 17, 2005, Sony Computer Entertainment filed a Request for Inter Partes Reexamination of the ‘333 Patent with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. On May 19, 2005, Sony Computer Entertainment filed a similar Request for reexamination of the ‘213 Patent. On July 6, 2005, we filed a Petition to dismiss, stay or alternatively to suspend both of the requests for reexamination, based at least on the grounds that a final judgment has already been entered by a United States district court, and that the PTO’s current inter partes reexamination procedures deny due process of law. The PTO denied the first petition, and we filed a second petition on September 9, 2005. On November 17, 2005, the PTO granted our petition, and suspended the inter partes reexaminations until such time as the parallel court proceedings warrant termination or resumption of the PTO examination and prosecution proceedings. On December 13, 2005, Sony Computer Entertainment filed a third petition requesting permission to file an additional inter partes reexamination on the claims of the ‘333 and ‘213 Patents for which reexamination was not requested in Sony Computer Entertainment’s original requests for reexamination; we have opposed this petition. The PTO has not yet issued a decision on Sony Computer Entertainment’s third petition. Sony Computer Entertainment also filed ex parte reexamination requests on the claims of the ‘333 and ‘213 Patents on December 13, 2005. On June 16, 2005, Sony Computer Entertainment filed a Notice of Appeal from the District Court Judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The appeals of the January and February orders regarding the compulsory license have been consolidated with this appeal of the Judgment. Sony Computer Entertainment’s Opening Brief was filed on October 21, 2005; we filed an Opposition Brief on December 5, 2005. Due to the cross appeal by Internet Services LLC (“ISLLC”) (see below), the Federal Circuit allowed us to file a Substitute Opposition Brief on February 17, 2006 responding to the briefs filed by both Sony Computer Entertainment and ISLLC. We expect the briefing for the appeal to be concluded by all parties by the end of March 2006. On July 21, 2005, Sony Computer Entertainment filed a motion in the District Court before Judge Wilken seeking relief from the final judgment under Rule 60(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure on the grounds of alleged fraud and “newly discovered evidence” of purported prior art which Sony Computer Entertainment contends we concealed and withheld attributable to Mr. Craig Thorner, a named inventor on three patents that Sony Computer Entertainment urged as a basis for patent invalidity during the trial. We dispute and intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these allegations. Briefing is complete, and a hearing was held before Judge Wilken on 19 Table of Contents January 20, 2006. On March 8, 2006, the Court denied Sony Computer Entertainment’s motion pursuant to Rule 60(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure in its entirety. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we cannot accurately predict how the Court of Appeals will decide the appeal. We anticipate that the litigation will continue to be costly, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover the costs we incur in connection with the litigation. We expense litigation costs as incurred and only accrue for costs that have been incurred but not paid to the vendor as of the financial statement date. The litigation has diverted, and is likely to continue to divert, the efforts and attention of some of our key management and personnel. As a result, until such time as it is resolved, the litigation could adversely affect our business. Further, any unfavorable outcome could adversely affect our business. In the event we settle our lawsuit with Sony Computer Entertainment, we will be obligated to pay certain sums to Microsoft as described in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. If Sony Computer Entertainment ultimately were successful on appeal or in the reexamination process, the Judgment may be put at risk, assets relating to the patents in the lawsuit may be impaired, and Sony Computer Entertainment may seek additional relief, such as attorneys’ fees. Internet Services LLC Litigation On October 20, 2004, ISLLC, a Company licensee and cross-claim defendant against whom Sony Computer Entertainment had filed a claim seeking declaratory relief, filed claims against us alleging that we breached a contract with ISLLC by suing Sony Computer Entertainment for patent infringement relating to haptically-enabled software whose topics or images are allegedly age-restricted, for judicial apportionment of damages awarded by the jury between ISLLC and us, and for a judicial declaration with respect to ISLLC’s rights and duties under agreements with us. On December 29, 2004, the Court issued an order dismissing ISLLC’s claims against Sony Computer Entertainment with prejudice and dismissing ISLLC’s claims against us without prejudice to ISLLC filing a new complaint “if it can do so in good faith without contradicting, or repeating the deficiency of, its complaint.” On January 12, 2005, ISLLC filed Amended Cross-Claims and Counterclaims against us that contained similar claims. ISLLC also realleged counterclaims against Sony Computer Entertainment. On January 28, 2005, we filed a motion to dismiss ISLLC’s Amended Cross-Claims and a motion to strike ISLLC’s Counterclaims against Sony Computer Entertainment. On March 24, 2005 the Court issued an order dismissing ISLLC’s claims with prejudice as to ISLLC’s claim seeking a declaratory judgment that it is an exclusive licensee under the ’213 and ’333 patents and as to ISLLC’s claim seeking “judicial apportionment” of the damages verdict in the Sony Computer Entertainment case. The Court’s order further dismissed ISLLC’s claims without prejudice as to ISLLC’s breach of contract and unjust enrichment claims. ISLLC filed a notice of appeal of those orders with the Federal Circuit on April 18, 2005. ISLLC’s appeal has been consolidated with Sony Computer Entertainment’s appeal. ISLLC filed its Opening Brief in December 2005. As noted above, the Federal Circuit allowed us to file a Substitute Opposition Brief on February 17, 2006 responding to the briefs filed by both Sony Computer Entertainment and ISLLC; we expect the briefing for the appeal to be concluded by all parties by the end of March 2006. On February 8, 2006, ISLLC filed a lawsuit against us in the Superior Court of Santa Clara County. ISLLC’s complaint seeks a share of our Judgment and recovery against Sony Computer Entertainment and of the Microsoft settlement proceeds, and generally restates the claims already adjudicated in District Court. Our response to the complaint is due on March 16, 2006. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights could be expensive, disruptive, and time consuming; could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property; and could adversely affect our business. Intellectual property litigation, whether brought by us or by others against us, has been in the past, and could result in the future, in the expenditure of significant financial resources and the diversion of management’s time and efforts. From time to time, we initiate claims against third parties that we believe infringe our intellectual property 20 Table of Contents rights. We intend to enforce our intellectual property rights vigorously and may initiate litigation against parties that we believe are infringing our intellectual property rights if we are unable to resolve matters satisfactorily through negotiation. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming, and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. In addition, any litigation in which we are accused of infringement may cause product shipment delays, require us to develop non-infringing technologies, or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements even before the issue of infringement has been decided on the merits. If any litigation were not resolved in our favor, we could become subject to substantial damage claims from third parties and indemnification claims from our licensees. We and our licensees could be enjoined from the continued use of the technologies at issue without a royalty or license agreement. Royalty or license agreements, if required, might not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If a third party claiming infringement against us prevailed, and we could not develop non-infringing technologies or license the infringed or similar technologies on a timely and cost-effective basis, our expenses would increase and our revenues could decrease. We attempt to avoid infringing known proprietary rights of third parties. However, third parties may hold, or may in the future be issued, patents that could be infringed by our products or technologies. Any of these third parties might make a claim of infringement against us with respect to the products that we manufacture and the technologies that we license. From time to time, we have received letters from companies, several of which have significantly greater financial resources than we do, asserting that some of our technologies, or those of our licensees, infringe their intellectual property rights. Certain of our licensees have received similar letters from these or other companies. Such letters or subsequent litigation may influence our licensees’ decisions whether to ship products incorporating our technologies. In addition, such letters may cause a dispute between our licensees and us over indemnification for the infringement claim. Any of these notices, or additional notices that we or our licensees could receive in the future from these or other companies, could lead to litigation against us, either regarding the infringement claim or the indemnification claim. We have acquired patents from third parties and also license some technologies from third parties. We must rely upon the owners of the patents or the technologies for information on the origin and ownership of the acquired or licensed technologies. As a result, our exposure to infringement claims may increase. We generally obtain representations as to the origin and ownership of acquired or licensed technologies and indemnification to cover any breach of these representations. However, representations may not be accurate and indemnification may not provide adequate compensation for breach of the representations. Intellectual property claims against our licensees, or us, whether or not they have merit, could be time-consuming to defend, cause product shipment delays, require us to pay damages, harm existing license arrangements, or require us or our licensees to cease utilizing the technologies unless we can enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Furthermore, claims by third parties against our licensees could also result in claims by our licensees against us under the indemnification provisions of our licensees’ agreements with us. The terms in our agreements may be construed by our licensees in a manner that is inconsistent with the rights that we have granted to other licensees, or in a manner that may require us to incur substantial costs to resolve conflicts over license terms. We have entered into, and we expect to continue to enter into, agreements pursuant to which our licensees are granted rights under our technology and intellectual property. These rights may be granted in certain fields of use, or with respect to certain market sectors or product categories, and may include exclusive rights or sublicensing rights. We refer to the license terms and restrictions in our agreements, including, but not limited to, field of use definitions, market sector, and product category definitions, collectively as “License Provisions.” Due to the continuing evolution of market sectors, product categories, and licensee business models, and to the compromises inherent in the drafting and negotiation of License Provisions, our licensees may, at some time during the term of their agreements with us, interpret License Provisions in their agreements in a way that is different from our interpretation of such License Provisions, or in a way that is in conflict with the rights that we have granted to other licensees. Such interpretations by our licensees may lead to (a) claims that we have granted rights to one licensee which are inconsistent with the rights that we have granted to another licensee, and/or (b) claims by one licensee against another licensee that may result in our incurring indemnification or other obligations or liabilities. 21 Table of Contents In addition, after we enter into an agreement, it is possible that markets and/or products, or legal and/or regulatory environments, will evolve in a manner that we did not foresee or was not foreseeable at the time we entered into the agreement. As a result, in the agreement, we may have granted rights that will preclude or restrict our exploitation of potentially lucrative new opportunities that arise after the execution of the agreement. Product liability claims could be time-consuming and costly to defend and could expose us to loss. Our products or our licensees’ products may have flaws or other defects that may lead to personal or other injury claims. If products that we or our licensees sell cause personal injury, financial loss, or other injury to our or our licensees’ customers, the customers or our licensees may seek damages or other recovery from us. Any claims against us would be time-consuming, expensive to defend, and distracting to management, and could result in damages and injure our reputation and/or the reputation of our products, or the reputation of our licensees or their products. This damage could limit the market for our and our licensees’ products and harm our results of operations. In the past, manufacturers of peripheral products including certain gaming products such as joysticks, wheels, or gamepads, have been subject to claims alleging that use of their products has caused or contributed to various types of repetitive stress injuries, including carpal tunnel syndrome. We have not experienced any product liability claims to date. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could limit or invalidate the provisions. If the settlement on our current class action lawsuit falls through, the continuing lawsuit could be expensive, disruptive, and time consuming to defend against, and if we are not successful, could adversely affect our business. We are involved in legal proceedings relating to a class action lawsuit filed on November 9, 2001, In re Immersion Corporation Initial Public Offering Securities Litigation, No. Civ. 01-9975 (S.D.N.Y.), related to In re Initial Public Offering Securities Litigation, No. 21 MC 92 (S.D.N.Y.). The named defendants are Immersion and three of our current or former officers or directors (the “Immersion Defendants”) and certain underwriters of our November 12, 1999 IPO. Subsequently, two of the individual defendants stipulated to a dismissal without prejudice. The operative amended complaint is brought on purported behalf of all persons who purchased our common stock from the date of our IPO through December 6, 2000. It alleges liability under Sections 11 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 and Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on the grounds that the registration statement for the IPO did not disclose that: (1) the underwriters agreed to allow certain customers to purchase shares in the IPO in exchange for excess commissions to be paid to the underwriters; and (2) the underwriters arranged for certain customers to purchase additional shares in the aftermarket at predetermined prices. The complaint also appears to allege that false or misleading analyst reports were issued. The complaint does not claim any specific amount of damages. Similar allegations were made in other lawsuits challenging over 300 other initial public offerings and follow-on offerings conducted in 1999 and 2000. The cases were consolidated for pretrial purposes. On February 19, 2003, the Court ruled on all defendants’ motions to dismiss. The motion was denied as to claims under the Securities Act of 1933 in the case involving us, as well as in all other cases (except for 10 cases). The motion was denied as to the claim under Section 10(b) as to us, on the basis that the complaint alleged that we had made acquisition(s) following the IPO. The motion was granted as to the claim under Section 10(b), but denied as to the claim under Section 20(a), as to the remaining individual defendant. We and most of the issuer defendants have settled with the plaintiffs. In this settlement, plaintiffs have dismissed and released all claims against the Immersion Defendants, in exchange for a contingent payment by the insurance companies collectively responsible for insuring the issuers in all of the IPO cases, and for the assignment or surrender of certain claims we may have against the underwriters. The Immersion Defendants will not be required to make any cash payments in the settlement, unless the pro rata amount paid by the insurers in the settlement exceeds the amount of the insurance coverage, a circumstance which we believe is remote. The settlement will require approval of the Court, which cannot be assured, after class members are given the opportunity to object to the settlement or opt out of the settlement. 22 Table of Contents If our facilities were to experience catastrophic loss, our operations would be seriously harmed. Our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss such as fire, flood, earthquake, power outage, or terrorist activity. California has experienced problems with its power supply in recent years. As a result, we have experienced utility cost increases and may experience unexpected interruptions in our power supply that could have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, a substantial portion of our research and development activities, manufacturing, our corporate headquarters, and other critical business operations are located near major earthquake faults in San Jose, California, an area with a history of seismic events. Any such loss at our facilities could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments, and revenue, and result in large expenses to repair and replace the facility. While we believe that we maintain insurance sufficient to cover most long-term potential losses at our facilities, our existing insurance may not be adequate for all possible losses. Industry and Technology Risks We have little or no control or influence on our licensees’ design, manufacturing, promotion, distribution, or pricing of their products incorporating our touch-enabling technologies, upon which we generate royalty revenue. A key part of our business strategy is to license our intellectual property to companies that manufacture and sell products incorporating our touch-enabling technologies. Sales of those products generate royalty and license revenue for us. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, 37%, 37%, and 30%, respectively, of our total revenues were royalty and license revenues. However, we do not control or influence the design, manufacture, quality control, promotion, distribution, or pricing of products that are manufactured and sold by our licensees. In addition, we generally do not have commitments from our licensees that they will continue to use our technologies in current or future products. As a result, products incorporating our technologies may not be brought to market, meet quality control standards, achieve commercial acceptance, or generate meaningful royalty revenue for us. For us to generate royalty revenue, licensees that pay us per-unit royalties must manufacture and distribute products incorporating our touch-enabling technologies in a timely fashion and generate consumer demand through marketing and other promotional activities. Products incorporating our touch-enabling technologies are generally more difficult to design and manufacture, which may cause product introduction delays or quality control problems. If our licensees fail to stimulate and capitalize upon market demand for products that generate royalties for us, or if products are recalled because of quality control problems, our revenues will not grow and could decline. Alternatively, if a product that incorporates our touch-enabling technologies achieves widespread market acceptance, the product manufacturer may elect to stop making it rather than pay us royalties based on sales of the product. Peak demand for products that incorporate our technologies, especially in the video console gaming and computer gaming peripherals market, typically occurs in the fourth calendar quarter as a result of increased demand during the year-end holiday season. If our licensees do not ship products incorporating our touch-enabling technologies in a timely fashion or fail to achieve strong sales in the fourth quarter of the calendar year, we may not receive related royalty and license revenue. Most of our current gaming royalty revenues come from third-party peripheral makers who make licensed gaming products designed for use with popular video game console systems from Microsoft, Sony, and Nintendo. Video game console systems are closed, proprietary systems, and video game console system makers typically impose certain requirements or restrictions on third-party peripheral makers who wish to make peripherals that will be compatible with a particular video game console system. These requirements and restrictions could be in the form of hardware technical specifications, software technical specifications, security specifications, component vendor specifications, licensing terms and conditions, or other forms. If third-party peripheral makers can not or are not allowed to obtain or satisfy these requirements or restrictions, our gaming royalty revenues could be significantly reduced. Furthermore, should a significant video game console maker choose to omit touch-enabling capabilities from its console system, it may very well lead our gaming licensees to stop making products with touch-enabling capabilities, thereby significantly reducing our gaming royalty revenues. The recently launched Microsoft Xbox 360 ships with touch-enabling capabilities built-in, and the upcoming next generation Nintendo Revolution 23 Table of Contents has been reported by Nintendo to have touch-enabling capabilities. However, no announcements have been made regarding the touch-enabling capabilities of the upcoming next-generation Sony console system. Microsoft launched its next-generation Xbox 360 video game console in November 2005, and it is anticipated that Sony and Nintendo will launch their new next-generation video game console systems in 2006. Historically, according to data from the NPD Group, sales of console peripherals by third-party suppliers grow to about 65% or more of total market share near the end of the life cycle of a console system. When next-generation console systems are released third-party peripheral product sales initially account for 30% or less of total market share. This percentage increases as the console model ages. Most of our current gaming royalty revenue is from third-party peripheral makers. Consequently, with the new console introductions already beginning and continuing to take place over the year, our gaming royalty revenue will likely decrease from current levels, which may hurt our business. Because we have a fixed payment license with Microsoft, our royalty revenue from licensing in the gaming market and other consumer markets might decline if Microsoft increases its volume of sales of touch-enabled gaming products and consumer products at the expense of our other licensees. Under the terms of our present agreement with Microsoft, Microsoft receives a royalty-free, perpetual, irrevocable license to our worldwide portfolio of patents. This license permits Microsoft to make, use, and sell hardware, software, and services, excluding specified products, covered by our patents. We also granted to Microsoft a limited right, under our patents relating to touch technologies, to sublicense specified rights, excluding rights to excluded products and peripheral devices, to third-party customers of Microsoft’s or Microsoft’s subsidiaries’ products (other than Sony Corporation, Sony Computer Entertainment Inc., Sony Computer Entertainment of America Inc., and their subsidiaries). In exchange, for the grant of these rights and the rights included in a separate Sublicense Agreement, Microsoft paid us a one-time payment of $20.0 million. We will not receive any further revenues or royalties from Microsoft under our current agreement with Microsoft. Microsoft has a significant share of the market for touch-enabled console gaming computer peripherals and is pursuing other consumer markets such as mobile phones and PDAs. Microsoft has significantly greater financial, sales, and marketing resources, as well as greater name recognition and a larger customer base than our other licensees. In the event that Microsoft increases its share of these markets, our royalty revenue from other licensees in these market segments might decline. For the Microsoft Xbox 360 video console system launched in November 2005, Microsoft has, to date, not licensed the rights to produce wireless controllers to any third-party peripheral makers. Wireless game controllers account for a significant and growing portion of our royalty revenue, including revenue from Logitech and Mad Catz. Therefore, by retaining the market for wireless Xbox 360 game controllers exclusively for itself, Microsoft will likely significantly increase its market share of all aftermarket game controller sales, the effect of which is likely to reduce our gaming royalty revenue. Logitech accounts for a significant portion of our revenue and the failure of Logitech to achieve sales volumes for its gaming peripheral products that incorporate our touch-enabling technologies may reduce our total revenue. Logitech accounts for a significant portion of our revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, 11%, 10%, and 5%, respectively, of our total revenues were derived from Logitech. We expect that Logitech will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. If Logitech’s sales volumes for its computer and console gaming peripheral products that incorporate our technologies decline, our total revenue may decline. Medtronic accounts for a significant portion of our revenues and a reduction in sales to Medtronic, or a reduction in development work for Medtronic, may reduce our total revenue. Medtronic accounts for a significant portion of our revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, 11%, 17%, and 18%, respectively, of our total revenues were derived from Medtronic. If our product sales to Medtronic decline, and/or Medtronic reduces the development activities we perform, then our total revenue may decline. 24 Table of Contents Automotive royalties will be reduced if BMW were to abandon its iDrive system or remove our technology from the iDrive. Our largest royalty stream from the automotive industry is currently from BMW for its iDrive controller. Press reviews of this system have been largely negative and critical of the system’s complex user interface, which we did not design. Nevertheless, this negative press may cause BMW to abandon the iDrive controller or to redesign it and/or remove our technology from it. The design cycle time for major automotive systems like iDrive is typically two to five years. One or more of the current BMW product lines may go through replacement or redesign and during that cycle the iDrive controller may be replaced or removed. Historically, BMW has often launched its newest technology in its 7 Series. We also believe that the current 7 series is due for redesign by 2008 and that our technology may, or may not, be part of the redesigned iDrive. A decline in our royalties from BMW will harm our business. We depend on third-party suppliers, and our revenue and/or results of operations could suffer if we fail to manage supplier issues properly. Our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components and products for a wide variety of systems, products, and services, and our suppliers’ ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products, and services at reasonable prices in time for us to meet critical schedules. We may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain supplies as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, disputes with suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers, or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. If shortages or delays persist, the price of these supplies may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues, or the supplies may not be available at all. We may not be able to secure enough supplies at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities or according to the specifications needed. We could lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs, or be unable to pass on price increases to our customers. If we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some products or service offerings, resulting in further costs and delays. Additionally, our use of single source suppliers for certain components could exacerbate our supplier issues. We obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality, or other considerations. In addition, new products that we introduce may use custom components obtained from only one source initially, until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. The performance of such single source suppliers may affect the quality, quantity, and price of supplies to us. Accordingly, our revenue and/or results of operations could be adversely impacted by such events. Because personal computer peripheral products that incorporate our touch-enabling technologies currently must work with Microsoft’s operating system software, our costs could increase and our revenues could decline if Microsoft modifies its operating system software. Our hardware and software technologies for personal computer peripheral products that incorporate our touch-enabling technologies are currently compatible with Microsoft’s Windows 2000, Windows Me, and Windows XP operating systems, including DirectX, Microsoft’s entertainment applications programming interface. Modifications and new versions of Microsoft’s operating system (including DirectX and the upcoming Windows Vista anticipated to launch in late 2006) may require that we and/or our licensees modify the touch-enabling technologies to be compatible with Microsoft’s modifications or new versions, and this could cause delays in the release of products by our licensees. If Microsoft modifies its software products in ways that limit the use of our other licensees’ products, our costs could increase and our revenues could decline. Reduced spending by corporate or university research and development departments may adversely affect sales of our three-dimensional and professional products. Any economic downturn could lead to a reduction in corporations’ or university budgets for research and development in sectors, including the automotive and aerospace sectors, which use our three-dimensional and professional products. Sales of our three-dimensional and professional products, including our CyberGlove line of 25 Table of Contents whole-hand sensing gloves and our MicroScribe line of digitizers, could be adversely affected by cuts in corporate research and development budgets. Competition between our products and our licensees’ products may reduce our revenue. Rapid technological change, short product life cycles, cyclical market patterns, declining average selling prices, and increasing foreign and domestic competition characterize the markets in which we and our licensees compete. We believe that competition in these markets will continue to be intense and that competitive pressures will drive the price of our products and our licensees’ products downward. These price reductions, if not offset by increases in unit sales or productivity, will cause our revenues to decline. We face competition from unlicensed products as well. Our licensees or other third parties may seek to develop products using our intellectual property or develop alternative designs that attempt to circumvent our intellectual property, which they believe do not require a license under our intellectual property. These potential competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we do, and the costs associated with asserting our intellectual property rights against such products and such potential competitors could be significant. Moreover, if such alternative designs were determined by a court not to require a license under our intellectual property rights, competition from such unlicensed products could limit or reduce our revenues. We have experienced significant change in our business, and our failure to manage the complexities associated with the changing economic environment and technology landscape could harm our business. Any future periods of rapid economic and technological change may place significant strains on our managerial, financial, engineering, and other resources. In particular, because our technologies are complex, if the economy weakens, an unusually high level of managerial effectiveness in anticipating, planning, coordinating, and meeting our operational needs as well as the needs of our licensees may be required. The market for certain touch-enabling technologies and touch-enabled products is at an early stage and if market demand does not develop, we may not achieve or sustain revenue growth. The market for certain of our touch-enabling technologies and certain of our licensees’ touch-enabled products is at an early stage. If we and our licensees are unable to develop demand for touch-enabling technologies and touch-enabled products, we may not achieve or sustain revenue growth. We cannot accurately predict the growth of the markets for these technologies and products, the timing of product introductions, or the timing of commercial acceptance of these products. Even if our touch-enabling technologies and our licensees’ touch-enabled products are ultimately widely adopted, widespread adoption may take a long time to occur. The timing and amount of royalties and product sales that we receive will depend on whether the products marketed achieve widespread adoption and, if so, how rapidly that adoption occurs. We expect that we will need to pursue extensive and expensive marketing and sales efforts to educate prospective licensees, component customers, and end users about the uses and benefits of our technologies and to persuade software developers to create software that utilizes our technologies. Negative product reviews or publicity about our products, our licensees’ products, haptic features, or haptic technology in general could have a negative impact on market adoption, our revenue, and/or our ability to license our technologies in the future. If we are unable to enter into new licensing arrangements with our existing licensees, and with additional third-party manufacturers for our touch-enabling technologies, our royalty revenue may not grow. Our revenue growth is significantly dependent on our ability to enter into new licensing arrangements. Our failure to enter into new or renewal of licensing arrangements will cause our operating results to suffer. We face numerous risks in obtaining new licenses on terms consistent with our business objectives and in maintaining, expanding, and supporting our relationships with our current licensees. These risks include: • the lengthy and expensive process of building a relationship with potential licensees; 26 Table of Contents • the fact that we may compete with the internal design teams of existing and potential licensees; • difficulties in persuading product manufacturers to work with us, to rely on us for critical technology, and to disclose to us proprietary product development and other strategies; • challenges in demonstrating the compelling value of our technologies in new applications like mobile phones and touchscreens; • difficulties in persuading existing and potential licensees to bear the development costs and risks necessary to incorporate our technologies into their products; • difficulties in signing up new automotive licensees for not-yet-commercialized technology when their components suppliers may not yet be able to meet the car companies’ stringent quality and parts availability standards; • difficulty in signing up new gaming licensees, as well as losing our existing gaming licensees, if we are not successful in the litigation with Sony Computer Entertainment; and • reluctance of content developers, mobile phone manufacturers, and service providers to sign license agreements without a critical mass of other such inter-dependent supporters of the mobile phone industry having a license or without enough phones in the market that incorporate our technologies. A majority of our current royalty revenue has been derived from the licensing of our portfolio of touch-enabling technologies for video game console and personal computer gaming peripherals, such as gamepads, joysticks, and steering wheels. Though substantially smaller than the market for dedicated gaming console peripherals, the market for gamepads, joysticks, and steering wheels for use with personal computers is declining and is characterized by declining average selling prices. If the console peripheral market also experiences declines in sales and selling prices, we may not achieve royalty revenue growth. If we fail to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, our ability to license our technologies and generate revenues would be impaired. Our business depends on generating revenues by licensing our intellectual property rights and by selling products that incorporate our technologies. We rely on our significant patent portfolio to protect our proprietary rights. If we are not able to protect and enforce those rights, our ability to obtain future licenses or maintain current licenses and royalty revenue could be impaired. In addition, if a court or the patent office were to limit the scope, declare unenforceable, or invalidate any of our patents, current licensees may refuse to make royalty payments or they may choose to challenge one or more of our patents. It is also possible that: • our pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents; • our patents may not be broad enough to protect our proprietary rights; and • effective patent protection may not be available in every country in which our licensees do business. We also rely on licenses, confidentiality agreements, other contractual agreements, and copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights. It is possible that: • laws and contractual restrictions may not be sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technologies or deter others from developing similar technologies; and • policing unauthorized use of our products, trademarks, and other proprietary rights would be difficult, expensive, and time-consuming, particularly overseas. Certain terms or rights granted in our license agreements or our development contracts may limit our future revenue opportunities. While it is not our general practice to sign license agreements that provide exclusive rights for a period of time with respect to a technology, field of use, and/or geography, or to accept similar limitations in product development contracts, we have entered into such agreements and may in the future. Although additional compensation or other 27 Table of Contents benefits may be part of the agreement, the compensation or benefits may not adequately compensate us for the limitations or restrictions we have agreed to as that particular market develops. Over the life of the exclusivity period, especially in markets that grow larger or faster than anticipated, our revenue may be limited and less than what we could have achieved in the market with several licensees or additional products available to sell to a specific set of customers. If we are unable to continually improve and reduce the cost of our technologies, companies may not incorporate our technologies into their products, which could impair our revenue growth. Our ability to achieve revenue growth depends on our continuing ability to improve and reduce the cost of our technologies and to introduce these technologies to the marketplace in a timely manner. If our development efforts are not successful or are significantly delayed, companies may not incorporate our technologies into their products and our revenue growth may be impaired. If we fail to develop new or enhanced technologies for new applications and platforms, we may not be able to create a market for our technologies or our technologies may become obsolete, and our ability to grow and our results of operations might be harmed. Our initiatives to develop new and enhanced technologies and to commercialize these technologies for new applications and new platforms may not be successful. Any new or enhanced technologies may not be favorably received by consumers and could damage our reputation or our brand. Expanding our technologies could also require significant additional expenses and strain our management, financial, and operational resources. Moreover, technology products generally have relatively short product life cycles and our current products may become obsolete in the future. Our ability to generate revenues will be harmed if: • we fail to develop new technologies or products; • the technologies we develop infringe on third-party patents; • our new technologies fail to gain market acceptance; or • our current products become obsolete. Compliance with the restriction of hazardous substances (RoHS) Directive in the European Union may increase our costs and limit our revenue opportunities. The RoHS Directive eliminates most uses of lead, cadmium, hexavalent-chromium, mercury, and certain fire retardants in electronics placed on the market after July 1, 2006. We have not yet quantified the potential full effect of this new Directive on our products, but the Directive will require changes to some of our products that may be costly and this may have a negative impact on our revenues and results of operations. We are currently in discussions with our suppliers and working with them so that we can be in compliance as of the effective date of the RoHS Directive. If we are unable to, or decide not to make our products compliant by the effective date, we will not be able to ship them in the European Union and/or any other region that adopts the Directive until such time that they are compliant, and this may limit our revenue opportunities. The higher cost of products incorporating our touch-enabling technologies may inhibit or prevent their widespread adoption. Personal computer and console gaming peripherals, mobile phones, touchscreens, and automotive and industrial controls incorporating our touch-enabling technologies can be more expensive than similar competitive products that are not touch-enabled. Although major manufacturers, such as ALPS Electric Co., Ltd., BMW, Logitech, Microsoft, and Samsung have licensed our technologies, the greater expense of development and production of products containing our touch-enabling technologies as compared to non-touch-enabled products may be a significant barrier to the widespread adoption and sale of touch-enabled products. 28 Table of Contents If we fail to increase sales of our medical simulation devices, our financial condition and operations may suffer. Our medical simulation products, such as our Endovascular AccuTouch System and our Laparascopic Surgical Workstation, have only recently begun to be used by hospitals and medical schools to help train healthcare professionals. As a result, many of these medical institutions do not budget for such simulation devices. To increase sales of our simulation devices, we must, in addition to convincing medical institution personnel of the usefulness of the devices, persuade them to include a significant expenditure for the devices in their budgets. If these medical institutions are unwilling to budget for simulation devices or reduce their budgets as a result of cost-containment pressures or other factors, we may not be able to increase or maintain sales of medical simulators at a satisfactory rate. Any failure to increase sales of our medical simulation products will harm our business. Third-party validation studies may not demonstrate all the benefits of our medical training simulators, which could affect customer motivation to buy. In medical training, validation studies are generally used to confirm the usefulness of new techniques, devices, and training methods. For medical training simulators, several levels of validation are generally tested: content, concurrent, construct, and predictive. A validation study performed by a third party, such as a hospital, a teaching institution, or even an individual healthcare professional, could result in showing little or no benefit for one or more types of validation for our medical training simulators. Such validation study results published in medical journals could impact the willingness of customers to buy our training simulators, especially new simulators that have not previously been validated. Due to the time generally required to complete and publish additional validation studies (often more than a year), the negative impact on sales revenue could be significant. Medical licensing and certification authorities may not recommend or require use of our technologies for training and/or testing purposes, significantly slowing or inhibiting the market penetration of our medical simulation technologies. Several key medical certification bodies, including the American Board of Internal Medicine, or ABIM and the American College of Cardiology, or ACC, have great influence in recommending particular medical methodologies, including medical training and testing methodologies, for use by medical professionals. In the event that the ABIM and the ACC, as well as other, similar bodies, do not endorse medical simulation products as a training and/or testing tool, market penetration for our products could be significantly and adversely affected. We have limited distribution channels and resources to market and sell our medical simulation and three-dimensional simulation and digitizing products, and if we are unsuccessful in marketing and selling these products, we may not achieve or sustain product revenue growth. We have limited resources for marketing and selling medical simulation or three-dimensional simulation and digitizing products either directly or through distributors. To achieve our business objectives, we must build a balanced mixture of sales through a direct sales channel and through qualified distribution channels. The success of our efforts to sell medical simulation and three-dimensional simulation products will depend upon our ability to retain and develop a qualified sales force and effective distributor channels. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel necessary to sell and market our simulation products. A number of our distributors represent small, specialized companies and may not have sufficient capital or human resources to support the complexities of selling and supporting simulation products. There can be no assurance that our direct selling efforts will be effective, distributors will market our products successfully or, if our relationships with distributors terminate, that we will be able to establish relationships with other distributors on satisfactory terms, if at all. Any disruption in the distribution, sales, or marketing network for our simulation products could have a material adverse effect on our product revenues. 29 Table of Contents Competition in the medical market may reduce our revenue. If the medical simulation market develops as we anticipate, we believe that we will have a greater number of competitors. This increased competition may result in the decline of our revenue and may cause us to reduce our selling prices. Competition in the mobility or touchscreen markets may increase our costs and reduce our revenue. If the mobility or touchscreen markets develop as we anticipate, we believe that we will face a greater number of competitors. These potential competitors may have significantly greater financial and technical resources than we do, and the costs associated with competing with such potential competitors could be significant. Additionally, increased competition may result in the reduction of our market share and/or cause us to reduce our prices, which may result in a decline in our revenue. Automobiles incorporating our touch-enabling technologies are subject to lengthy product development periods, making it difficult to predict when and whether we will receive per unit automotive royalties. The product development process for automobiles is very lengthy, sometimes longer than four years. We do not earn per unit royalty revenue on our automotive technologies unless and until automobiles featuring our technologies are shipped to customers, which may not occur until several years after we enter into an agreement with an automobile manufacturer or a supplier to an automobile manufacturer. Throughout the product development process, we face the risk that an automobile manufacturer or supplier may delay the incorporation of, or choose not to incorporate, our technologies into its automobiles, making it difficult for us to predict the per unit automotive royalties we may receive, if any. After the product launches, our royalties still depend on market acceptance of the vehicle or the option packages if our technology is an option (for example, a navigation unit), which is likely to be determined by many factors beyond our control. We might be unable to retain or recruit necessary personnel, which could slow the development and deployment of our technologies. Our ability to develop and deploy our technologies and to sustain our revenue growth depends upon the continued service of our management and other key personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. Management and other key employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time upon short notice. The loss of management or key personnel could delay product development cycles or otherwise harm our business. We believe that our future success will also depend largely on our ability to attract, integrate, and retain sales, support, marketing, and research and development personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, integrating, and retaining such personnel. Given the protracted nature of if, how, and when we collect royalties on new design contracts, it may be difficult to craft compensation plans that will attract and retain the level of salesmanship needed to secure these contracts. Some of our executive officers and key employees hold stock options with exercise prices considerably above the current market price of our common stock. Each of these factors may impair our ability to retain the services of our executive officers and key employees. Our technologies are complex and we rely upon the continued service of our existing engineering personnel to support licensees, enhance existing technologies, and develop new technologies. Investment Risks Our quarterly revenues and operating results are volatile, and if our future results are below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, the price of our common stock is likely to decline. Our revenues and operating results are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. 30 Table of Contents These factors include: • the establishment or loss of licensing relationships; • the timing of payments under fixed and/or up-front license agreements; • the timing of work performed under development agreements; • the timing of our expenses, including costs related to litigation, stock-based awards, acquisitions of technologies, or businesses; • the timing of introductions and market acceptance of new products and product enhancements by us, our licensees, our competitors, or their competitors; • our ability to develop and improve our technologies; • our ability to attract, integrate, and retain qualified personnel; and • seasonality in the demand for our products or our licensees’ products. Our stock price may fluctuate regardless of our performance. The stock market has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to decline regardless of our performance. The market price of our common stock has been, and in the future could be, significantly affected by factors such as: actual or anticipated fluctuations in operating results; announcements of technical innovations; announcements regarding litigation in which we are involved; new products or new contracts; sales or the perception in the market of possible sales of large number of shares of our common stock by insiders or others; changes in securities analysts’ recommendations; changing circumstances regarding competitors or their customers; governmental regulatory action; developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; inclusion in or exclusion from various stock indices; and general market conditions. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has been initiated against that company, such as the suit currently filed against us. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control, which could reduce the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. In addition, certain provisions of Delaware law may discourage, delay, or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares. Issuance of the shares of common stock upon conversion of debentures, exercise of stock options, and exercise of warrants will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The issuance of shares of common stock in the following circumstances will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders: (i) upon conversion of some or all of the convertible debentures (ii) upon exercise of some or all of the stock options, and (iii) upon exercise of some or all of the warrants. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion or upon such exercises, respectively, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these convertible debentures, stock options, and warrants may encourage short selling by market participants. Our major stockholders retain significant control over us, which may lead to conflicts with other stockholders over corporate governance matters and could also affect the volatility of our stock price. We currently have, have had in the past, and may have in the future, stockholders who retain greater than 10%, or in some cases greater than 20%, of our outstanding stock. Acting together, these stockholders would be able to exercise significant influence over matters that our stockholders vote upon, including the election of directors and 31 Table of Contents mergers or other business combinations, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over or merging with us. Further, if any individuals in this group elect to sell a significant portion or all of their holdings of our common stock, the trading price of our common stock could experience volatility. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may result in substantial dilution to our stockholders. We may need to raise additional capital in order to ensure a sufficient supply of cash for continued operations and litigation costs. We have taken measures to control our costs and will continue to monitor these efforts. In addition, Sony Computer Entertainment has made payments to us pursuant to the Court’s orders. Although we have received the payments, we may be required to return them and any future payments based on the outcome of an appeals process. Our plans to raise additional capital may include possible customer prepayments of certain royalty obligations in exchange for a royalty discount and/or other negotiated concessions, entering into new license agreements that require up-front license payments, and through debt or equity financing. We cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. Changes in equity markets over the past five years have adversely affected the ability of companies to raise equity financing and have adversely affected the markets for financing for companies with a history of losses such as ours. Additional financing may require us to take on more debt or issue additional shares of our common or preferred stock such that our existing stockholders may experience substantial dilution. We may engage in acquisitions that could dilute stockholders’ interests, divert management attention, or cause integration problems. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past and may in the future, acquire businesses or intellectual property that we feel could complement our business, enhance our technical capabilities, or increase our intellectual property portfolio. If we consummate acquisitions through cash and/or an exchange of our securities, our stockholders could suffer significant dilution. Acquisitions could also create risks for us, including: • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisitions; • use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisitions; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • difficulties in assimilation of acquired personnel or operations; and • potential intellectual property infringement claims related to newly acquired product lines. Any acquisitions, even if successfully completed, might not generate significant additional revenue or provide any benefit to our business. If we fail to comply with Nasdaq’s maintenance criteria for continued listing on the Nasdaq National Market, our common stock could be delisted. To maintain the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq National Market, we are required to comply with one of two sets of maintenance criteria for continued listing. Under the first set of criteria, among other things, we must maintain stockholders’ equity of at least $10 million, the market value of our “publicly held” common stock (excluding shares held by our affiliates) must be at least $5 million, and the minimum bid price for our common stock must be at least $1.00 per share. Under the second set of criteria, among other things, the market value of our common stock must be at least $50 million or we must have both $50 million in assets and $50 million in revenues, the market value of our “publicly held” shares must be at least $15 million, and the minimum bid price for our common stock must be at least $1.00 per share. As of December 31, 2005, our most recent balance sheet date, we had a deficit in stockholders’ equity, and therefore would not have been in compliance with the first set of listing criteria as of that date. Although we were in compliance with the second set of criteria, should the price of our common stock decline to the point where the aggregate value of our outstanding common stock falls below $50 million, the value of our “publicly held” shares falls below $15 million, or the bid price of our common stock falls below $1.00 per share, our shares could be delisted from the Nasdaq National Market. If we are unable to 32 Table of Contents comply with the applicable criteria and our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq National Market, it would likely be more difficult to affect trades and to determine the market price of our common stock. In addition, delisting of our common stock could materially affect the market price and liquidity of our common stock and our future ability to raise necessary capital. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as standards are modified, supplemented, or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Legislative actions, higher insurance cost, and potential new accounting pronouncements are likely to impact our future financial position and results of operations. There have been regulatory changes, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and there may potentially be new accounting pronouncements or additional regulatory rulings that will have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. These changes and other legal changes, as well as proposed legislative initiatives following the Enron bankruptcy, are likely to increase general and administrative costs. In addition, insurers are likely to increase premiums as a result of high claims rates over the past year, which we expect will increase our premiums for our various insurance policies. Further, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) recently enacted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS No. 123R”) which requires us, as of January 1, 2006, to adopt a different method of determining the compensation expense of our employee stock options. SFAS No. 123R may have a significant adverse effect on our reported financial conditions and may impact the way we conduct our business. These and other potential changes could materially increase the expenses we report under generally accepted accounting principles, and adversely affect our operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 