Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties. Lionbridge’s actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including, without limitation, those set forth in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating Lionbridge and its business. Lionbridge’s reliance on a small number of large clients and the delay or reduction of its clients’ product releases and production schedules or the loss of, or reduction in revenue from, a major client could negatively affect Lionbridge’s revenue and results of operations. A significant portion of Lionbridge’s revenue is linked to the product release cycles and production schedules of its clients, and, in particular, to certain key clients. As a result, Lionbridge performs varying amounts of work for specific clients from year to year based on their product release cycles and production schedules. A major client in one year may not have use for a similar level of Lionbridge’s services in another year. In addition, Lionbridge derives a significant portion of its revenues from large projects and programs for a limited number of large clients. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, Lionbridge’s largest client accounted for 22% and 20% of its revenue, respectively, and its five largest clients accounted for approximately 40% of its revenue. As a result, the loss of any major client or a significant reduction in a large project’s scope could materially reduce Lionbridge’s revenue and cash flow, and adversely affect its ability to maintain profitability. Pursuing and completing potential acquisitions could divert management attention and financial resources and may not produce the desired business results. As part of its growth strategy, Lionbridge intends to continue pursuing and making selected acquisitions of complementary businesses. Lionbridge does not have specific personnel dedicated solely to pursuing and making acquisitions. As a result, if Lionbridge pursues any acquisition, its management, in addition to their operational responsibilities, could spend a significant amount of time and management and financial resources to pursue and integrate the acquired business with its existing business. To fund the purchase price of an acquisition, Lionbridge might use capital stock, cash or a combination of both. Alternatively, Lionbridge may borrow money from a bank or other lender. If it uses capital stock, Lionbridge’s stockholders will experience dilution. If it uses cash or debt financing, Lionbridge’s financial liquidity may be reduced. In addition, from an accounting perspective, an acquisition may involve amortization of significant amounts of other intangible assets that could adversely affect Lionbridge’s ability to maintain profitability. Despite the investment of these management and financial resources, an acquisition, including our 2005 acquisition of Bowne Global Solutions (“BGS”), may not produce the revenue, earnings or business synergies that Lionbridge anticipated or may produce such synergies less rapidly than anticipated for a variety of reasons, including: · difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, operational systems deployments, technologies, services, products and personnel of the acquired company; · failure of acquired technologies and services to perform as expected; · risks of entering markets in which Lionbridge has no, or limited, prior experience; · effects of any undisclosed or potential legal or tax liabilities of the acquired company; · compliance with additional laws, rules or regulations that Lionbridge may become subject to as a result of an acquisition that might restrict Lionbridge’s ability to operate; and · the loss of key employees of the acquired company. 10 Table of Contents Lionbridge may not be able to successfully address these problems. Lionbridge’s future operating results may depend to a significant degree on Lionbridge’s ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and manage operations while controlling expenses and cash outflows. Lionbridge may have difficulty in identifying and competing for acquisition opportunities. Lionbridge’s business strategy includes the pursuit of strategic acquisitions. While Lionbridge currently does not have commitments or agreements with respect to any acquisitions, it regularly explores potential acquisitions of strategically complementary businesses or operations. Lionbridge may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates and it can expect to face competition from other companies for potential acquisition candidates, making it more difficult to acquire suitable companies on favorable terms. Lionbridge’s results of operations could be negatively affected by potential fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Lionbridge conducts a large portion of its business in international markets. Although a majority of Lionbridge’s contracts with clients are denominated in U.S. dollars, 67% and 57% of its costs and expenses for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, 23% and 19% of the Company’s assets were subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuations as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, while 6% of its liabilities were subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuations as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. The principal foreign currency applicable to our business is the Euro. In addition, Lionbridge has assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the relative entity. As a result, Lionbridge is exposed to foreign currency exchange fluctuations. Management has implemented a hedging program to partially hedge its exposure to foreign currency assets or liabilities, primarily with respect to the Euro. Management regularly reviews the hedging program and will make adjustments as necessary. Lionbridge’s hedging activities may not prove favorable or effective against the adverse impact resulting from unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Lionbridge may not be able to successfully complete the integration of BGS or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the BGS acquisition. The integration of BGS into Lionbridge involves a number of risks and presents financial, managerial and operational challenges, and the final phase of integration activities has not yet been completed. In particular, we may have difficulty, and may incur unanticipated expenses related to, integrating technology and financial reporting systems without diverting the attention of management and other personnel from revenue generating activities. We may also face difficulties in retaining and growing certain BGS customer relationships. Failure to successfully complete the integration of BGS may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Lionbridge may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions and integration of these acquisitions may interrupt the Company’s business and management. Lionbridge has made significant acquisitions in the past and expects to continue to make acquisitions as part of our long-term business strategy. Most recently, Lionbridge completed the acquisition of BGS in September 2005. Lionbridge may not realize the anticipated benefits of this or any other acquisition, or Lionbridge may not realize the anticipated benefits as quickly as originally anticipated. In particular, the process of integrating acquired companies into the Company’s existing business may result in unforeseen difficulties and delays. These risks include: · difficulty in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; · difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration; 11 Table of Contents · difficulty in integrating the acquired company’s accounting, financial reporting systems, human resources and other administrative systems; · delays or difficulty to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses on the original timetable. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky and if Lionbridge does not fully complete the integration of acquired businesses successfully and in a timely manner, the Company may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions to the extent anticipated, or as rapidly as anticipated, which could adversely affect Lionbridge’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Potential fluctuations in Lionbridge’s quarterly results make financial forecasting difficult and could affect its common stock trading price. As a result of fluctuations in Lionbridge’s revenues tied to foreign currency fluctuations, its clients’ activities and release cycles, customer and vendor pricing pressures, the three-to nine-month length of its typical sales cycle, historical growth, acquisition activity, the emerging nature of the markets in which it competes, global economic conditions and other factors outside its control, Lionbridge believes that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of its results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. You should not rely on the results of any one quarter as an indication of Lionbridge’s future performance. Lionbridge may not experience revenue increases in future years comparable to the revenue increases in some prior years. There have been quarters in the past in which Lionbridge’s results of operations have fallen below the expectations of securities analysts and investors and this may occur in the future. If in a future quarter Lionbridge’s results of operations were to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of its common stock would likely decline. Fluctuations in the mix of customer demand for the Company’s various types of service offerings could impact Lionbridge’s financial performance and impact Lionbridge’s ability to forecast performance. Customer demand for the range of the Company’s service offerings varies from time to time and is not predictable, due to fluctuations in customer needs, changes in the customer industries and general economic conditions. As a result, the mix of services provided by Lionbridge to its customers varies at any given time, both within a quarter and from quarter to quarter. These variations in service mix impact gross margins and the predictability of gross margins for any period. Therefore, Lionbridge believes that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of its results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. You should not rely on the results of any one quarter as an indication of Lionbridge’s future performance. Lionbridge may not experience profitability or margin increases in future years comparable to those experienced in some prior years. There have been quarters in the past in which Lionbridge’s results of operations have fallen below the expectations of securities analysts and investors and this may occur in the future. If in a future quarter Lionbridge’s results of operations were to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of its common stock would likely decline. Lionbridge’s financial performance may be impacted by its ability to transition service execution to its lower cost operational sites, the timing of such transition, and customer acceptance of such transition. Lionbridge’s business strategy includes the transition of customer service execution to its Global Delivery Centers located in India, China, Poland and Slovakia. The rate at which such services may be transitioned and the timing of any transition is difficult to predict and is dependent on customer demand for such services and customer acceptance of such any such transition. Accordingly, changes in the location of service execution may not produce the anticipated financial benefit and the Company may not realize the anticipated benefits of service execution in its Global Delivery Centers to the extent anticipated, or as rapidly as anticipated, all of which could adversely affect Lionbridge’s business, financial condition or results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of Lionbridge’s assets; any impairment of Lionbridge’s goodwill will adversely impact its net income. At December 31, 2006, Lionbridge had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $167.9 million, net of accumulated amortization, which represented approximately 52.2% of its total assets. Lionbridge’s goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill or intangible assets may be impaired. Any excess goodwill carrying value resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. Intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over a one to five-year period, with the exception of various customer relationships acquired in the BGS transaction that are amortized over a twelve-year period. In addition, Lionbridge will continue to incur non-cash charges in connection with the amortization of its intangible assets other than goodwill over the remaining useful lives of such assets. Future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a significant impact on Lionbridge’s net income and affect its ability to achieve or maintain profitability. If Lionbridge does not respond to future advances in technology and changes in customer demands, its business and results of operations may be adversely affected. The demand for Lionbridge’s services will be substantially affected, in large part, by future advances in technology and changes in customer demands. Lionbridge’s success will also depend on its ability to address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of its existing and prospective clients. Lionbridge cannot assure you that there will be a demand for its services in the future. Lionbridge’s success in servicing its clients will be largely dependent on its development of strategic business solutions and methodologies in response to technological advances and client preferences. For example, Lionbridge’s services are based on a hosted internet-based language technology platform, a core component of which is Lionbridge’s Logoport technology. Lionbridge may be unable to continue to grow at its historical growth rates or to manage its growth effectively. Growth is a key component of increasing the value of Lionbridge. Since its inception, Lionbridge’s business has grown significantly and it anticipates additional future growth. Recently, Lionbridge focused some of its expansion efforts on leveraging the solution centers in India, China, Poland and Slovakia while concurrently restructuring certain western European operations. This realignment has placed and may continue to place significant demands on management and operational resources. In order to manage growth effectively, Lionbridge must continue to evolve its operational systems. Additional growth may further strain Lionbridge’s management and operational resources. As a result of these concerns, Lionbridge cannot be sure that it will continue to grow, or, if it does grow, that it will be able to maintain its overall historical growth rate. Lionbridge’s business may be harmed by defects or errors in the services it provides to its clients. Many of the services Lionbridge provides are critical to its clients’ businesses. While Lionbridge maintains general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, defects or errors in the services it provides could interrupt its clients’ abilities to provide services to their end users resulting in delayed or lost client revenue. This could damage Lionbridge’s reputation through negative publicity, make it difficult to attract new, and retain existing customers and cause customers to terminate their contracts and seek damages. Lionbridge may incur additional costs to correct errors or defects. Lionbridge cannot assure you that its general liability and errors and omissions insurance coverage will be available in amounts sufficient to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claims. 13 Table of Contents If Lionbridge fails to hire and retain professional staff, its ability to obtain and complete its projects could suffer. Lionbridge’s potential failure to hire and retain qualified employees could impair its ability to complete existing projects and bid for or obtain new projects and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on its business and revenue. Lionbridge’s ability to grow and increase its market share largely depends on its ability to hire, train, retain and manage highly skilled employees, including project managers and technical, sales and marketing personnel. In addition, Lionbridge must ensure that its employees maintain their technical expertise and business skills. Lionbridge cannot assure you that it will be able to attract a sufficient number of qualified employees or that it will successfully train and manage the employees it hires to allow Lionbridge to carry out its operating plan. Difficulties presented by international economic, political, legal, health, accounting and business factors could negatively affect Lionbridge’s business in international markets. A strategic advantage of Lionbridge’s operations is its ability to conduct business in international markets. Lionbridge conducts business and has operations and clients throughout the world. As a result, Lionbridge’s business is subject to political and economic fluctuations in various countries and to more cost-intensive social insurance and employment laws and regulations, particularly in Europe. In addition, as Lionbridge continues to employ and retain personnel throughout the world and to comply with various employment laws, it may face difficulties in integrating such personnel on a cost-efficient basis. As Lionbridge aligns its worldwide workforce, it may face difficulties and expense in reducing its workforce in certain high cost countries and regions, including Europe. To date, Lionbridge has been able to successfully staff its international operations, but if Lionbridge seeks to expand its operations, it may become more difficult to manage its international business. In addition, Lionbridge’s ability to engage individual interpreters and translators as contractors rather than employees may be impacted by changes in employment laws, regulations and interpretations in certain jurisdictions, which may expose Lionbridge to additional costs and expenses. Lionbridge’s and its clients’ abilities to conduct business may also be affected by wars, political unrest, terrorism, natural disasters or the impact of diseases such as avian influenza. Furthermore, as a result of operating in international markets, Lionbridge is subject to longer payment cycles from many of its customers and may experience greater difficulties in timely accounts receivable collections. If Lionbridge fails to manage these operations successfully, its ability to service its clients and grow its business will be seriously impeded. Lionbridge competes in highly competitive markets. The markets for Lionbridge’s services are very competitive. Lionbridge cannot assure you that it will compete successfully against its competitors in the future. If Lionbridge fails to be competitive with these companies in the future, it may lose market share and its revenue could decline. There are relatively few barriers preventing companies from competing with Lionbridge. Although Lionbridge owns proprietary technology, Lionbridge does not own any patented or other technology that, by itself, precludes or inhibits others from entering its market. As a result, new market entrants also pose a threat to Lionbridge’s business. In addition to Lionbridge’s existing competitors, Lionbridge may face further competition in the future from companies that do not currently offer globalization or testing services. Lionbridge may also face competition from internal globalization and testing departments of its current and potential clients. Technology companies, information technology services companies, business process outsourcing companies, web consulting firms, technical support call centers, hosting companies and content management providers may choose to broaden their range of services to include globalization or testing as they expand their operations internationally. Lionbridge cannot assure you that it will be able to compete effectively with potential future competitors. 14 Table of Contents Lionbridge will continue to depend on intellectual property rights to protect its proprietary technologies, although it may not be able to successfully protect these rights. Lionbridge relies on its proprietary technology to enhance some of its service offerings. Lionbridge’s policy is to enter into confidentiality agreements with its employees, outside consultants and independent contractors. Lionbridge also uses patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law in addition to contractual restrictions to protect its technology. Notwithstanding these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to obtain and use Lionbridge’s proprietary technology without authorization. Although Lionbridge holds registered or pending United States patents and foreign patents covering certain aspects of its technology, it cannot be sure of the level of protection that these patents will provide. Lionbridge may have to resort to litigation to enforce its intellectual property rights, to protect trade secrets or know-how, or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. Enforcing or defending its proprietary technology is expensive, could cause diversion of Lionbridge’s resources and may not prove successful. The laws of other countries may afford Lionbridge little or no effective protection of its intellectual property rights. The intellectual property of Lionbridge’s customers may be damaged, misappropriated, stolen or lost while in Lionbridge’s possession, subjecting it to litigation and other adverse consequences. In the course of providing globalization and testing services to Lionbridge’s customers, Lionbridge takes possession of or is granted access to certain intellectual property of such customers, including unreleased versions of software and source code. In the event such intellectual property is damaged, misappropriated, stolen or lost, Lionbridge could suffer: · claims under indemnification provisions in customer agreements or other liability for damages; · delayed or lost revenue due to adverse customer reaction; · negative publicity; and · litigation that could be costly and time consuming. Lionbridge has an accumulated deficit and may not be able to continue to achieve operating profit. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, Lionbridge achieved operating profits of $15.0 million, $1.3 million, and $7.2 million, respectively. However, prior to 2003, since inception, Lionbridge incurred substantial losses and may incur losses in the future. Lionbridge has an accumulated deficit of $107.7 million as of December 31, 2006. Lionbridge intends to continue to invest in internal expansion, infrastructure, select acquisitions and its sales and marketing efforts. Lionbridge cannot assure you that it will continue to achieve operating profits in the future or will generate net income in the future. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect Lionbridge’s effective tax rates. Lionbridge is subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Lionbridge is subject to the continual examination by tax authorities in certain jurisdictions and the Company regularly assesses the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although Lionbridge believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than what is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals, and could result in a material effect on the Company’s income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. If additional taxes are assessed, the possibility exists for an adverse impact on Lionbridge’s financial results. 15 Table of Contents In addition, unanticipated changes in Lionbridge’s tax rates could affect its future results of operations. Lionbridge’s future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in tax laws or the interpretation in tax laws, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenues in countries with low statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of the Company’s deferred tax assets or liabilities. The adoption in June 2006 by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) of FASB Interpretation No. (FIN) 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes – An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. FIN 48 will be effective beginning in the first quarter of 2007. While the Company currently estimates that the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 48 will be immaterial to its consolidated financial statements, it is possible that the final determination of the tax positions of any one of its subsidiaries, particularly those acquired from BGS, could be materially different than what is reflected in the Company’s historical financial statements, and depending on the number of subsidiaries impacted and the extent of any difference, could result in a material effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Changes in accounting policies may affect Lionbridge’s reported earnings and operating income. Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations for many aspects of our business, including revenue recognition are highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules, their interpretation, or their application relative to changes in the Company’s services or business could significantly change Lionbridge’s reported earnings and could add significant volatility to these measures, without a comparable underlying change in cash flow from operations. Lionbridge’s application of applicable accounting guidance involves interpretation and judgment, and may, as a result, delay the timing of revenue recognition or accelerate the costs associated with deferred revenue. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 