Item 1A. Risk Factors Many statements contained in this report are forward-looking in nature. These statements are based on our current plans, intentions or expectations, and actual results could differ materially as we cannot guarantee that we will achieve these plans, intentions or expectations. See “— Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements”. Forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those specifically identified below. Risks Related to Our Business Our results of operations have been, and could continue to be, adversely affected by the downturn in the U.S. economy and in the local economies of the markets in which we operate. Revenue generated by our radio stations depends primarily upon the sale of advertising. Advertising expenditures, which we believe to be largely a discretionary business expense, generally tend to decline during an economic recession or downturn. Furthermore, because a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from local advertisers, our ability to generate advertising revenue in specific markets is directly affected by local or regional economic conditions. Consequently, the recent recession in the national economy and the economies of several individual geographic markets in which we own or operate stations continue to adversely affect our advertising revenue and, therefore, our results of operations. Even as the economy recovers from the recent recession, an individual business sector that tends to spend more on advertising than other sectors might be forced to reduce its advertising expenditures if that sector fails to recover on pace with the overall economy. If that sector’s spending represents a significant portion of our advertising revenues, any reduction in its expenditures may affect our revenue. We operate in a very competitive business environment. The radio broadcasting industry is very competitive. The success of each of our stations depends largely upon rates it can charge for its advertising, the number of local advertising competitors, and the overall demand for advertising within individual markets. These conditions are subject to change and highly susceptible to macroeconomic conditions. Any adverse change in a particular market affecting advertising expenditures or any adverse change in the relative market share of the stations located in a particular market could have a material adverse effect 25 Table of Contents on the revenue of our radio stations located in that market. There can be no assurance that any one or all of our stations will be able to maintain or increase advertising revenue market share. Audience ratings and market shares fluctuate, and any adverse change in a particular market could have a material adverse effect on the revenue of stations located in that market. While we already compete with other stations with comparable programming formats in many of our markets, any one of our stations could suffer a reduction in ratings or revenue and could require increased promotion and other expenses, and, consequently, could have a lower Station Operating Income, if: • another radio station in the market was to convert its programming format to a format similar to our station or launch aggressive promotional campaigns; • a new station were to adopt a competitive format; or • an existing competitor was to strengthen its operations. The Telecom Act allows for the consolidation of ownership of radio broadcasting stations in the markets in which we operate or may operate in the future. Some competing consolidated owners may be larger and have substantially more financial and other resources than we do. In addition, increased consolidation in our target markets may result in greater competition for acquisition properties and a corresponding increase in purchase prices we pay for these properties. A decrease in our market ratings or market share can adversely affect our revenues. The success of each of our radio stations, or station clusters, is primarily dependent upon its share of the overall advertising revenue within its market. Although we believe that each of our stations or clusters can compete effectively in its market, we cannot be sure that any of our stations can maintain or increase its current audience ratings or market share. In addition to competition from other radio stations and other media, shifts in population, demographics, audience tastes, casualty events, and other factors beyond our control could cause us to lose our audience ratings or market share. Our advertising revenue may suffer if any of our stations cannot maintain its audience ratings or market share. We must respond to the rapid changes in technology, services and standards that characterize our industry in order to remain competitive. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to technological change, evolving industry standards and the emergence of new media technologies and services. In some cases, our ability to compete will be dependent on our acquisition of new technologies and our provision of new services, and there can be no assurance that we will have the resources to acquire those new technologies or provide those new services; in other cases, the introduction of new technologies and services, including online music services, could increase competition and have an adverse effect on our revenue. Recent new media technologies and services include the following: • audio programming by cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite systems, Internet content providers (both landline and wireless), Internet-based audio radio services, smart phone and other mobile applications, satellite delivered digital audio radio service and other digital audio broadcast formats; • HD Radiotm digital radio, which could provide multi-channel, multi-format digital radio services in the same bandwidth currently occupied by traditional AM and FM radio services; and • low power FM radio, which could result in additional FM radio broadcast stations in markets where we have stations. We also cannot assure that we will continue to have the resources to acquire other new technologies or to introduce new services that could compete with other new technologies. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that competition arising from new technologies may have on the radio broadcasting industry or on our business. 26 Table of Contents We face many unpredictable business risks that could have a material adverse effect on our future operations. Our operations are subject to many business risks, including certain risks that specifically influence the radio broadcasting industry. These include: • changing economic conditions, both generally and relative to the radio broadcasting industry in particular; • shifts in population, listenership, demographics or audience tastes; • the level of competition from existing or future technologies for advertising revenues, including, but not limited to, other radio stations, satellite radio, television stations, newspapers, the Internet, and other entertainment and communications media; and • changes in laws as well as changes in governmental regulations and policies and actions of federal regulatory bodies, including the United States Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission and the FCC. Given the inherent unpredictability of these variables, we cannot with any degree of certainty predict what effect, if any, these risks will have on our future operations. Any one or more of these variables may have a material adverse effect on our future operations. There are risks associated with our acquisition strategy. We intend to continue to grow through internal expansion and by acquiring radio station clusters and individual radio stations primarily in mid-size markets. We cannot predict whether we will be successful in pursuing these acquisitions or what the consequences of these acquisitions will be. Consummation of our pending acquisitions and any acquisitions in the future are subject to various conditions, such as compliance with FCC and antitrust regulatory requirements. The FCC requirements include: • approval of license assignments and transfers; • limits on the number of stations a broadcaster may own in a given local market; and • other rules or policies, such as the ownership attribution rules, that could limit our ability to acquire stations in certain markets where one or more of our stockholders has other media interests. The antitrust regulatory requirements include: • filing with the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission under the HSR Act, where applicable; • expiration or termination of the waiting period under the HSR Act; and • possible review by the United States Department of Justice or the Federal Trade Commission of antitrust issues under the HSR Act or otherwise. We cannot be certain that any of these conditions will be satisfied. In addition, the FCC has asserted the authority to review levels of local radio market concentration as part of its acquisition approval process, even where proposed assignments would comply with the numerical limits on local radio station ownership in the FCC’s rules and the Communications Act. Our acquisition strategy involves numerous other risks, including risks associated with: • identifying acquisition candidates and negotiating definitive purchase agreements on satisfactory terms; • integrating operations and systems and managing a large and geographically diverse group of stations; • diverting our management’s attention from other business concerns; • potentially losing key employees at acquired stations; and • diminishing number of properties available for sale in mid-size markets. 27 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully integrate our acquisitions or manage the resulting business effectively, or that any acquisition will achieve the benefits that we anticipate. In addition, we are not certain that we will be able to acquire properties at valuations as favorable as those of previous acquisitions. Depending upon the nature, size and timing of potential future acquisitions, we may be required to raise additional financing in order to consummate additional acquisitions. We cannot assure that our debt agreements will permit us to consummate an acquisition or access the necessary additional financing because of certain covenant restrictions, or that additional financing will be available to us or, if available, that financing would be on terms acceptable to our management. In particular, we are prohibited from making any station acquisitions or Permitted Acquisitions (as defined in the Credit Agreement) during the fiscal quarters ending June 30, 2009 through and including December 31, 2010 (the “Covenant Suspension Period”, as defined in the Credit Agreement). We may be restricted in pursuing certain strategic acquisitions because of our agreement with CMP. Under an agreement that we entered into with CMP and the other investors in CMP in connection with the formation of CMP, we have agreed to allow CMP the right to pursue first any business opportunity primarily involving the top-50 radio markets in the United States. We are allowed to pursue such business opportunities only after CMP has declined to pursue them. As a result, we may be limited in our ability to pursue strategic acquisitions or alternatives primarily involving large-sized markets (including opportunities that primarily involve large-sized markets but also involve mid-sized markets) that may present attractive opportunities for us in the future. On January 31, 2011, we announced an agreement to acquire the equity interests of CMP that we do not already own, which will result in CMP becoming a wholly owned subsidiary. The foregoing restrictions will remain in effect until the completion of that acquisition, which is expected to occur in the second quarter of 2011, but thereafter will not apply. We have written off, and could in the future be required to write off, a significant portion of the fair market value of our FCC broadcast licenses and goodwill, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2010, our FCC licenses and goodwill comprised 67.7% of our assets. Each year, and on an interim basis if appropriate, we are required by ASC 350, Intangibles — Goodwill and Other, to assess the fair market value of our FCC broadcast licenses and goodwill to determine whether the carrying value of those assets is impaired. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 we recorded impairment charges of approximately $0.7 million, $175.0 million, and $498.9 million, respectively, in order to reduce the carrying value of certain broadcast licenses and goodwill to their respective fair market values. Our future impairment reviews could result in additional impairment charges. Such additional impairment charges would reduce our reported earnings for the periods in which they are recorded. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could restrict our ability to access further financing. We rely in significant part on the capital and credit markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from operations. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, such as have been experienced over the past several years, could adversely affect our ability to draw on our credit facilities. Access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of our lenders to meet their funding commitments. Those lenders may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from their borrowers within a short period of time. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets have also resulted in increased costs associated with bank credit facilities. Continuation of these disruptions could increase our interest expense and adversely affect our results of operations. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions, could adversely affect our access to financing. Any such disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures and reducing or eliminating future uses of cash. 28 Table of Contents We are exposed to credit risk on our accounts receivable. This risk is heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. Our outstanding trade receivables are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. While we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our trade receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk and avoid losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We are exposed to risk of counterparty performance to derivative transactions. Although we evaluate the credit quality of potential counterparties to derivative transactions and only enter into agreements with those deemed to have minimal credit risk at the time the agreements are executed, there can be no assurances that such counterparties will be able to perform their obligations under the relevant agreements, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent on key personnel. Our business is managed by a small number of key management and operating personnel, and our loss of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel and to expand, train and manage our employee base. We have entered into employment agreements with some of our key management personnel that include provisions restricting their ability to compete with us under specified circumstances. We also employ several on-air personalities with large loyal audiences in their individual markets. On occasion, we enter into employment agreements with these personalities to protect our interests in those relationships that we believe to be valuable. The loss of one or more of these personalities could result in a short-term loss of audience share in that particular market. The broadcasting industry is subject to extensive and changing Federal regulation. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act. We are required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate our stations. Licenses are normally granted for a term of eight years and are renewable. Although the vast majority of FCC radio station licenses are routinely renewed, we cannot assure that the FCC will grant our existing or future renewal applications or that the renewals will not include conditions out of the ordinary course. The non-renewal or renewal with conditions, of one or more of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on us. We must also comply with the extensive FCC regulations and policies in the ownership and operation of our radio stations. FCC regulations limit the number of radio stations that a licensee can own in a market, which could restrict our ability to acquire radio stations that would be material to our financial performance in a particular market or overall. The FCC also requires radio stations to comply with certain technical requirements to limit interference between two or more radio stations. Despite those limitations, a dispute could arise whether another station is improperly interfering with the operation of one of our stations or another radio licensee could complain to the FCC that one our stations is improperly interfering with that licensee’s station. There can be no assurance as to how the FCC might resolve that dispute. These FCC regulations and others may change over time, and we cannot assure that those changes would not have a material adverse effect on us. The FCC has been vigorous in its enforcement of its indecency rules against the broadcast industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. FCC regulations prohibit the broadcast of “obscene” material at any time, and “indecent” material between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. The FCC has increased its enforcement efforts over the last few years with respect to these regulations. FCC regulatory oversight was augmented by recent legislation that substantially increased the penalties for broadcasting indecent programming (up to $325,000 for each incident), and subjected broadcasters to 29 Table of Contents license revocation, renewal or qualification proceedings under certain circumstances in the event that they broadcast indecent or obscene material. However, the FCC has refrained from processing and disposing of thousands of complaints that have been filed because of uncertainty concerning the validity of prior FCC rulings, which are now being challenged in various courts. It is impossible to predict when courts will finally resolve outstanding issues and what, if any, impact those judicial decisions will have on any complaints that have been or may be filed against our stations. Whatever the impact of those judicial decisions, we may in the future become subject to new FCC inquiries or proceedings related to our stations’ broadcast of allegedly indecent or obscene material. To the extent that such an inquiry or proceeding results in the imposition of fines, a settlement with the FCC, revocation of any of our station licenses or denials of license renewal applications, our results of operation and business could be materially adversely affected. We are required to obtain prior FCC approval for each radio station acquisition. The acquisition of a radio station requires the prior approval of the FCC. To obtain that approval, we would have to file a transfer of control or assignment application with the FCC. The Communications Act and FCC rules allow members of the public and other interested parties to file petitions to deny or other objections to the FCC grant of any transfer or assignment application. The FCC could rely on those objections or its own initiative to deny a transfer or assignment application or to require changes in the transaction as a condition to having the application granted. The FCC could also change its existing rules and policies to reduce the number of stations that we would be permitted to acquire in some markets. For these and other reasons, there can be no assurance that the FCC will approve potential future acquisitions that we deem material to our business. Risks Related to Our Proposed Acquisitions We intend to issue a significant amount of additional shares of common stock in connection with the CMP and Citadel acquisitions, a material amount of which we expect will be freely tradable within the next 12 months, which would dilute our existing stockholders and could cause our stock price to decline. Pursuant to the pending acquisitions of the remaining equity interests in CMP and of Citadel, we are obligated to issue a significant amount of shares of our common stock, which would substantially dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Specifically, pursuant to the CMP transaction, we are obligated to issue up to 18.2 million shares of our common stock, and pursuant to the acquisition of Citadel, we are obligated to issue up to 151.5 million shares to the stockholders of Citadel, and up to 115.2 million shares to the investors who have committed to provide the equity financing for the acquisition. These newly issued shares will substantially dilute the ownership interests of 36.1 million shares of Class A Common Stock currently outstanding. The up to 151.5 million shares of common stock that would be issued to the stockholders of Citadel will be registered and freely tradable upon issuance. Additionally, within nine months of consummating the CMP transaction, we are obligated to register for resale the 18.2 million shares to be issued in the CMP acquisition. Furthermore, in connection with completion of the Citadel acquisition, we are obligated to register up to 57.6 million of the shares issuable to the equity investors. Collectively, this will result in an additional 75.8 million freely tradable shares. If the holders of these shares sell substantial amounts of their holdings, or the public market perceives that those stockholders might sell substantial amounts of their holdings, the market price of our Class A Common Stock could decline significantly. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that our management deems appropriate. If we are unable to complete the Citadel acquisition, our stock price could suffer. If the proposed acquisition of Citadel is not completed, the market price of our Class A Common Stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the proposed acquisition will be completed. In addition, we have incurred and will incur substantial transaction costs and expenses in connection with the proposed acquisition. These costs are primarily associated with the fees of attorneys, accountants and our financial advisors. Further, we have diverted significant management resources in an effort to complete the proposed acquisition and are subject to certain restrictions contained in the agreements governing the merger on the conduct of our business. If the proposed acquisition is not completed, we will have incurred significant costs, 30 Table of Contents including the diversion of management resources, for which we will have received little or no benefit. Additionally, if the proposed acquisition is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and our advertisers, stockholders and employees. Finally, if the proposed acquisition of Citadel is not completed under certain circumstances specified in the Merger Agreement, we may be required to pay to Citadel termination fees of up to $80.0 million, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Each of these factors may also adversely affect the trading price of our Class A Common Stock and our financial results and operations. We may not realize the expected benefits of the Citadel acquisition because of integration difficulties and other challenges. The success of the Citadel acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies and cost savings from integrating Citadel’s business with our existing business. The integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. The difficulties of integrating the operation of Citadel’s business include, among others: • failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; • unanticipated issues in integrating logistics, information, communications and other systems; • unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; • the impact on our internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and • unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. We may not accomplish the integration of Citadel’s business smoothly, successfully or with the anticipated costs or time frame. The diversion of the attention of management from our current operations to the integration effort and any difficulties encountered in combining operations could prevent us from realizing the full benefits anticipated to result from the Citadel acquisition and could adversely affect our business. If we are unable to finance the proposed Citadel acquisition, the acquisition will not be completed. We have obtained commitments for up to $500.0 million in equity financing and up to $2.525 billion in senior secured credit facilities and $500.0 million in senior note bridge financing, the proceeds of which we intend to use, in part, to pay the cash portion of the consideration payable in connection with the Citadel acquisition. We have not, however, entered into the definitive agreements for the debt financing portion. In the event we are unable to enter into such definitive agreements on the proposed terms, alternative financing may not be available on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all. If alternative financing becomes necessary and we are unable to secure such alternative financing, the acquisition will not be completed. In the event of a termination of the Merger Agreement due to our inability to obtain the necessary financing to complete the Merger, we may be obligated to pay Citadel a reverse termination fee of up to $80.0 million, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We will take on substantial additional long-term indebtedness in connection with the Citadel acquisitions, which will increase the risks we now face with our current indebtedness. We intend to finance the Citadel acquisition, and refinance our, CMP’s and Citadel’s existing indebtedness, with up to $2.525 billion in senior secured credit facilities (and $500.0 million in senior notes or bridge financing). As a result, we will have long-term indebtedness that will be substantially greater than our long-term indebtedness prior to the acquisition and refinancing. This new indebtedness will increase the related risks we now face with our current indebtedness, described in detail in “Risks Related to Our Indebtedness — We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our indebtedness.” 31 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, our long-term debt, including the current portion, was $593.8 million, representing approximately 174.0% of our stockholders’ deficit. Our senior secured credit facilities have interest and principal repayment obligations that are substantial in amount. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt; and • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures. We and our restricted subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. The Credit Agreement imposes significant restrictions on us. The Credit Agreement limits or restricts, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness or grant additional liens or security interests in our assets; • pay dividends, make payments on certain types of indebtedness or make other restricted payments; • make particular types of investments or enter into speculative hedging agreements; • enter into some types of transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate with any other person or make changes to our organizational documents or other material agreement to which we are a party; • sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of our assets (except within certain limits) or enter into sale-leaseback transactions (except within certain limits); or • make capital expenditures beyond specific annual limitations. The Credit Agreement also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and financial condition tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot be sure that we will maintain those ratios or meet those tests. A breach of any of these restrictions could result in a default under the Credit Agreement. See “— If we cannot continue to comply with the financial covenants in our debt instruments, or obtain waivers or other relief from our lenders, we may default, which could result in loss of our sources of liquidity and acceleration of our indebtedness”. 32 Table of Contents If we cannot continue to comply with the financial covenants in our debt instruments, or obtain waivers or other relief from our lenders, we may default, which could result in loss of our sources of liquidity and acceleration of our indebtedness. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, and the instruments governing such indebtedness contain restrictive financial covenants. Our ability to comply with the covenants in the Credit Agreement will depend upon our future performance and various other factors, such as business, competitive, technological, legislative and regulatory factors, some of which are beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain compliance with all of these covenants. In that event, we would need to seek an amendment to the Credit Agreement, or a refinancing of, our senior secured credit facilities. There can be no assurance that we can obtain any amendment or waiver of the Credit Agreement, or refinance our senior secured credit facilities and, even if so, it is likely that such relief would only last for a specified period, potentially necessitating additional amendments, waivers or refinancings in the future. In the event that we do not maintain compliance with the covenants under the Credit Agreement, the lenders could declare an event of default, subject to applicable notice and cure provisions, resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial position. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Credit Agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. Our lenders have taken security interests in substantially all of our consolidated assets, and we have pledged the stock of our subsidiaries to secure the debt under our credit facility. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may be forced to liquidate certain assets to repay all or part of the senior secured credit facilities, and we cannot be assured that sufficient assets will remain after we have paid all of the borrowings under the senior secured credit facilities. Our ability to liquidate assets is affected by the regulatory restrictions associated with radio stations, including FCC licensing, which may make the market for these assets less liquid and increase the chances that these assets will be liquidated at a significant loss. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock The public market for our Class A Common Stock may be volatile. We cannot assure you that the market price of our Class A Common Stock will not decline, and the market price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to such factors as: • conditions and trends in the radio broadcasting industry; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results, including audience share ratings and financial results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • technological innovations; • the completion of the CMP acquisition and our ability to integrate CMP into our business; • competitive developments; • adoption of new accounting standards affecting companies in general or affecting companies in the radio broadcasting industry in particular; and • general market conditions and other factors. Further, the stock markets, and in particular the NASDAQ Global Select Market, on which our Class A Common Stock is listed, from time to time have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that were not necessarily related or proportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. In addition, general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate movements or international currency fluctuations, may adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock. 33 Table of Contents Certain stockholders control or have the ability to exert significant influence over the voting power of our capital stock. As of March 4, 2011, and after giving effect to the exercise of all of their options exercisable within 60 days of that date, Lewis W. Dickey, Jr., our Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer and a director, his brother, John W. Dickey, our Executive Vice President, and their father, Lewis W. Dickey, Sr., together with shares held by members of their family, collectively beneficially own 15,051,832 shares, or approximately 41.7% of our outstanding Class A Common Stock, and 644,871 shares, or 100%, of our outstanding Class C Common Stock, which collectively represents approximately 50.6% of the outstanding voting power of our common stock. Consequently, they have the ability to exert significant influence over our policies and management, subject to a voting agreement between these stockholders and us. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. As of March 4, 2011, BA Capital Company, L.P., referred to as BA Capital, and its affiliate, Banc of America SBIC, L.P., referred to as BACI, together beneficially own 1,745,973 shares, or approximately 4.1%, of our Class A Common Stock and 5,809,191 shares, or 100%, of our Class B Common Stock, which is convertible into shares of Class A Common Stock. BA Capital also holds options exercisable within 60 days of March 4, 2011, to purchase 5,891 shares of our Class A Common Stock. Assuming that those options were exercised for shares of our Class A Common Stock and giving effect to the conversion into shares of our Class A Common Stock of all shares of Class B Common Stock held by BA Capital and BACI, BA Capital and BACI would hold approximately 17.8% of the total voting power of our common stock. BA Capital has the right to designate one member of our Board of Directors and Mr. Sheridan currently serves on our Board of Directors as BA Capital’s designee. As a result, BA Capital, BACI and Mr. Sheridan have the ability to exert significant influence over our policies and management, and their interests may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements In various places in this annual report on Form 10-K, we use statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical in nature and may include statements relating to our future plans, objectives, expectations and intentions regarding industry and general economic trends, our expected financial position, results of operations or market position and business strategy. Such statements can generally be identified by words such as “may”, “target”, “could”, “would”, “will”, “should”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “expects”, “intend”, and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, including those referred to above under “Risk Factors” and as otherwise described in our periodic filings with the SEC from time to time, that may cause our actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: • the impact of general economic conditions in the United States or in specific markets in which we currently do business; • industry conditions, including existing competition and future competitive technologies; • the popularity of radio as a broadcasting and advertising medium; • cancellations, disruptions or postponements of advertising schedules in response to national or world events; • our capital expenditure requirements; • legislative or regulatory requirements; • risks and uncertainties relating to our leverage; • interest rates; • our ability to complete the acquisition of CMP within the time period anticipated; • our continued ability to identify suitable acquisition targets; • our ability to consume and integrate pending or future acquisitions; and 34 Table of Contents • access to capital markets. Many of these factors are beyond our control or difficult to predict and we cannot be certain that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will occur or, if any of them do occur, what impact they will have on us. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments, except as required under federal securities laws. We caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 