ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Before deciding to invest in us or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the SEC. We update our descriptions of the risks and uncertainties facing us in our periodic reports filed with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below and in our other filings are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose your investment. 8 We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. The market for our products and services is highly competitive. Many of our competitors offer broader product lines and have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us, which could seriously harm our net sales and results of operation. Additionally, our competitors may receive beneficial prices from purchasing component parts in large quantities and may be party to product and process technology license arrangement that are more favorable in terms of pricing and availability than our arrangements. As a result, we may have difficulty increasing our market share. Rapid change in technology may cause a portion of our inventory to become obsolete. The computer products market is characterized by rapid technological change and the frequent introduction of new products and enhancements. While we strive to maintain a just-in-time inventory system, there are certain computer products held in our inventory can become obsolete at any given time, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. In particular, the server appliance market is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, potentially short product life cycles, changes in customer demands and evolving industry standards. Our products could be rendered obsolete if products based on new technologies are introduced or new industry standards emerge. New products and product enhancements can require long development and testing periods, which require us to retain, and may require us to hire additional, technically competent personnel. Significant delays in new product releases or significant problems in installing or implementing new products could seriously damage our business. We may experience delays in the scheduled introduction of new and enhanced products. Our future success depends upon our ability to utilize our creative packaging and hardware and software integration skills to combine industry-standard hardware and software to produce low-cost, high-performance products that satisfy our strategic partners’ requirements and achieve market acceptance. We cannot be certain that we will successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. If server appliances are not increasingly adopted as a solution to meet companies’ computer application needs, the market for our products may not grow and the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of lower revenues or reduced investor expectations. We depend on the growing use of server appliances to meet businesses’ computer application needs. The market for server appliance products has only recently begun to develop and it is evolving rapidly. Because this market is new, we cannot predict its potential size or future growth rate with a high degree of certainty. Our revenues may not grow and the market price of our common stock could decline if the server appliance market does not grow rapidly. We believe that our expectations for the growth of the server appliance market may not be fulfilled if customers continue to use general-purpose servers. The role of our products could, for example, be limited if general-purpose servers become better at performing functions currently being performed by server appliances or are offered at a lower cost. This could force us to further lower the prices of our products or result in fewer sales of our products. Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our key senior management, sales, marketing, and manufacturing personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional, qualified personnel. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our senior management personnel, including Clifton W. Sink, Robert Richmond and Kevin Murphy, our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, respectively. The loss of any of these individuals or other key senior executives could have a material adverse effect on us. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in our industry, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business, or to replace qualified personnel who may leave our employment in the future. There may be significant costs associated with recruiting, hiring and retention of personnel. Periods of contraction in our business may inhibit our ability to attract and retain our personnel. Loss of the services of, or failure to recruit, key design engineers or other technical and management personnel could be significantly detrimental to our product development or other aspects of our business. 9 We are dependent on significant customers and the government market. For the year ended October 31, 2006, we had generated approximately $9.7 million or 40.2% of our total net revenues from contracts and awards with Lockheed Martin Systems Integration and General Services Administration. Future revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected should these customers reduce their purchases, eliminate product lines or choose not to continue to buy products and services from us. Given the nature of the products manufactured by us as well as the delivery schedules established by our partners, revenue and accounts receivable concentration by any single customer will fluctuate from quarter to quarter. We anticipate that concentration levels will decrease as our customer base and new product offerings expand in future periods. If we are unable to continue to participate in government contract programs or if government contracting policies are changed, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Additionally, most government contracts are subject to modification or termination in the event of changes in funding and our contractual costs and revenues are subject to adjustment as a result of governmental audits. A significant amount of our revenues are derived from sales made through major procurement programs awarded by the government, which include contracts with General Services Administration, Department of Defense and the Administration Office of the U.S. Courts. If we are unable to renew or replace those contracts our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate. Our operating results have in the past fluctuated from quarter to quarter and we expect this trend to continue in the future. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be volatile. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of stock, many companies have been the object of securities class action litigation. If we were to be sued in a securities class action, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our stock may be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which will be beyond our control that may prevent our stockholders from reselling our common stock at a profit. The securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in the past and the market prices of the securities of technology companies have been especially volatile. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. Investors may be unable to resell their shares of our common stock for a profit. The decline in the market price of our common stock and market conditions generally could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital, to complete future acquisitions of or investments in other businesses and to attract and retain qualified technical and sales and marketing personnel. If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The listing of our shares of common stock was moved from the Nasdaq National Market to the Nasdaq Small Cap Market on June 30, 2003. Effective September 13, 2005, the Nasdaq Small Cap Market was renamed the Nasdaq Capital Market. If we are unable to satisfy the Nasdaq Capital Market’s continued listing criteria in the future, our common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. In August 2006, the Company announced it received notice, under Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4)(the “Rule”), that its common stock is subject to potential delisting from the Nasdaq National Market because the bid price of the Company’s common stock closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for 30 consecutive business days prior to August 8, 2006. Under Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(D), the Company has been granted an initial 180 calendar days, or until February 5, 2007, to regain compliance. If the Company is unable to regain compliance, trading, if any, in our common stock would thereafter be conducted in the over-the-counter market on the “pink sheets” or the OTC Bulletin Board. If our common stock were delisted from Nasdaq, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain quotations as to the price of our common stock. Additionally, if our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Small Cap Market the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. 10 We may issue additional shares and dilute your ownership percentage. Some events over which you have no control could result in the issuance of additional shares of our common stock. We may issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock to raise additional capital or finance acquisitions, or upon the exercise or conversion of outstanding options and warrants. Any issuances of additional shares would dilute your ownership percentage in us. Future sales of our common stock in the public market may adversely affect our stock price. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 