ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to all other information provided to you in this document. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial also may become important factors that affect our company. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS A material reduction in revenue from our largest customer, who represented 15% of our revenues in 2005, could harm our financial results to the extent not offset by cost reductions or new customers. Together, Reuters and Telerate accounted for $100.5 million, or 15%, of our revenue in 2005 compared to $122.0 million, or 20%, of our revenue in 2004. This reduction from the prior year was primarily due to reduced pricing for certain of our services. In June 2005, Reuters acquired Telerate. We entered into a new three-year Master Services Agreement with Reuters in May 2005 and mutually agreed with Reuters to terminate the Network Services Agreement dated September 28, 2001, as amended. Under the new agreement, Reuters no longer has any obligation to purchase a minimum amount of our services. In addition, Reuters owns a network services company that directly competes with us and that was formed to be Reuters’ preferred network partner. Accordingly, there are no assurances that Reuters will continue to buy services from our company. The loss of this customer or a significant group of our other customers, or a considerable reduction in the amount of our services that Reuters purchases or a significant group of our customers purchase, could materially reduce our revenues which, to the extent not offset by cost reductions or new customer additions, could materially reduce our cash flows and financial position. This may limit our ability to raise capital or fund our operations, working capital needs and capital expenditures in the future. We expect to continue to incur net losses. We incurred a net loss of $69.1 million in 2005, $148.8 million in 2004, and $94.0 million in 2003. We had positive cash flows from operating activities of $62.9 million in 2005, and negative cash flows from operations of $26.8 million in 2004 and $0.3 million in 2003. We expect to continue to incur net losses at least through 2008. Our revenues and operating results are affected by a number of factors including the following: • demand for and market acceptance of our network, hosting, media services, industry solutions, and professional services; • increasing sales, marketing and other operating expenses; • our ability to retain key employees that maintain relationships with our customers; • the duration of the sales cycle for our services; • the announcement or introduction of new or enhanced services by our competitors; • acquisitions we may make; • changes in the prices we pay for utilities, local access connections, Internet connectivity and longhaul backbone connections; and • the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures, including costs relating to the expansion of operations, and of the replacement or upgrade of our hosting infrastructure. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. In addition, these factors may affect our long-term viability. 14 Table of Contents We have experienced revenue losses from reductions in services by customers, price reductions on services and customer turnover in the past and may continue to do so in the future. If we continue to experience such revenue loss without a corresponding growth in new customers or services, our revenues would decrease. Revenue loss occurs for several reasons, such as individual site reductions in customer networks, price reductions, voluntary termination by customers who choose to switch to a competing service and termination for nonpayment of bills or abuse of the network. While our experience in 2005 has been of market pricing stabilizing in some of the services we offer and in some cases increasing, we have experienced revenue loss in the past and, as our customer base grows, these revenue losses may recur. If, in the future, we were to lose a large number of customers without signing contracts with new customers, our revenues would decrease. Our brand is not as well known as some of our competitors. Failure to develop brand recognition could hurt our ability to compete effectively. We need to strengthen our brand awareness to realize our strategic and financial objectives. Many of our competitors have well-established brands associated with the provision of data networking, Internet access, hosting services, and digital content services, and significantly larger budgets for brand promotion than we do. The promotion and enhancement of our brand also will depend in part on our success in continuing to provide high quality services. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain or achieve these levels of quality. Our failure to meet performance standards under our service level agreements could result in our customers terminating their relationship with us or our customers being entitled to receive service credits which could lead to reduced revenues. We have service level agreements with substantially all of our customers in which we provide various guarantees regarding our levels of service. As a result, service interruptions could result in difficulty maintaining service level commitments required by these agreements. If we fail to provide the levels of service required by these agreements, our customers may be able to receive service credits for their accounts, as well as terminate their relationship with us. In addition, any inability to meet our service level commitments could reduce the confidence of our customers and could consequently impair our ability to obtain and retain customers, which would adversely affect both our ability to generate revenues and our operating results. We depend on a number of third party providers, and the loss of or problems with one or more of these providers may impede our growth or cause us to lose customers. We are dependent on third party providers to supply bandwidth capacity leased from telecommunications network providers in the quantities and quality we require. While we have entered into various agreements for carrier line capacity, any failure to obtain additional capacity, if required, would impede the growth of our business and cause our financial results to suffer. In addition, our customers that use the services of these telecommunication providers may in the future experience difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems. If, for any reason, these providers fail to provide the required services to our customers, our customers may lose confidence in our company, and we may not be able to retain these customers. If we are unable to provide satisfactory and high quality customer services, customer satisfaction and demand for our services will suffer. We believe that building strong relationships with our customers, as well as future growth in our sales, depends on our ability to provide our customers with customer support, training, consulting and maintenance when necessary. We have an in-house technical infrastructure group, customer service group and field solutions group that are responsible for the delivery of services to our customers. If we are unable to provide customers with satisfactory and quality customer support, training, consulting, maintenance and other services, we could face customer dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation, decreased overall demand for our services and loss of revenue. We may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, to meet our future capital needs. If we do not have sufficient cash flow from our operations, we may need to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings in order to meet our operating and capital needs. We may not be able to secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all, at the time when we need such funding. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. In addition, any debt financing that we may secure in the future could have restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, if we decide to raise funds through debt or convertible debt financings, we may be unable to meet our interest or principal payments. 15 Table of Contents Our significant indebtedness could limit our ability to operate our business successfully. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2005, the total principal amount of our debt, including capital lease obligations, was $335.7 million. We expect our interest expense to be approximately $68 million and $75 million in 2006 and 2007, respectively, under our current financing. In order to finance our acquisition of the assets of CWA and to provide ongoing funding to its operations and capital expenditures, we issued $200.0 million in Series A Subordinated Notes in February 2004 that accrued interest at the rate of 12.5% per annum until February 3, 2005, and thereafter at 15% per annum. Interest accrues on a non-cash basis and is payable semi-annually in additional Series A Subordinated Notes. The notes are due on January 30, 2009. Our senior credit facility and capital lease obligations require monthly and quarterly cash payments for interest. Our senior credit facility matures in 2008 and our capital lease obligations have a maturity of three to thirteen years. Our level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may not generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the outstanding amount of our indebtedness. If we do not have sufficient cash available to repay our debt obligations when they mature, we will have to refinance such obligations, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in such refinancing or that the terms of any refinancing will be acceptable to us. The amount of our debt also means that we must dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, reducing the funds available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes. Our cash debt service obligation for our existing debt as of December 31, 2005, is approximately $15 million and $16 million in 2006 and 2007, respectively. We may make acquisitions or enter into joint ventures or strategic alliances, each of which is accompanied by inherent risks. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may make acquisitions or investments or enter into joint ventures or strategic alliances with other companies. Risks commonly encountered in such transactions include: • the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the combined companies; • the risk that we may not be able to integrate the acquired services, products or technologies with our current services, products and technologies; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business; • the diversion of management attention from our existing business; • the inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel; • the inability of management to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful integration of acquired businesses; • increases in reported losses as a result of charges for in-process research and development and the amortization of other intangible assets; • difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies; • the impairment of relationships with employees, suppliers and customers as a result of any integration; • losses of acquired base of customers and accompanying revenue; and • the assumption of leased facilities, or other long-term commitments that could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and cash flow. As a result of these potential problems and risks, businesses that we may acquire or invest in may not produce the revenue, earnings, or business synergies that we anticipated. In addition, we cannot assure you that any potential transaction will be successfully identified and completed or that, if completed, the acquired businesses or investment will generate sufficient revenue to offset the associated costs or other potential harmful effects on our business. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could harm our operating results. Section 404 requires that we annually furnish an internal controls report of our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, and our auditors are required to attest to, and report on, our assessment. In addition, effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Although we received an unqualified opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, in the course of our ongoing evaluation of our internal controls over financing reporting, we have identified certain areas which we would like to improve and are in the process of evaluating and designing enhanced processes and controls to address these areas identified during our evaluation, none of which we believe constitutes or will constitute a material change. However, we cannot be certain that our efforts will be effective or sufficient for us, or our independent registered public accounting firm, to issue unqualified reports in the future, especially as our business continues to grow and evolve. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation or operation, could harm our operating results or cause management to be unable to report that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. 16 Table of Contents We may be liable for the material that content providers distribute over our network. The law relating to the liability of private network operators for information carried on or disseminated through their networks is still unsettled. We may become subject to legal claims relating to the content disseminated on our network. For example, lawsuits may be brought against us claiming that material on our network on which one of our customers relied was inaccurate. Claims could also involve matters such as defamation, invasion of privacy and copyright infringement. In addition, there are other issues such as online gambling where the legal issues remain unclear. Content providers operating private networks have been sued in the past, sometimes successfully, based on the content of material. If we need to take costly measures to reduce our exposure to these risks, or are required to defend ourselves against such claims, our financial results could be negatively affected. Failures in our network, including any breach of security, could disrupt our ability to provide our services, increase our capital costs, result in a loss of customers or otherwise negatively affect our business. Our ability to implement our business plan successfully depends upon our ability to provide high quality, reliable services. Interruptions in our ability to provide our services to our customers, through the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem, could adversely affect our business and reputation. For example, problems at one or more of our data center facilities could result in service interruptions or significant equipment damage. In addition, our network could be subject to unauthorized access, computer viruses, and other disruptive problems caused by customers, employees, or others. Unauthorized access, computer viruses or other disruptive problems could lead to interruptions, delays or cessation of service to our customers. Unauthorized access could also potentially jeopardize the security of confidential information of our customers or our customers’ end-users, which might expose us to liability from customers and the government agencies that regulate us as well as also deter potential customers from purchasing our services. We may be unable to implement disaster recovery or security measures in a timely manner or, if and when implemented, these measures may not be sufficient or could be circumvented through the reoccurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem, or as a result of accidental or intentional actions. Resolving network failures or alleviating security problems may also require interruptions, delays or cessation of service to our customers. Accordingly, problems at our data centers, network interruptions or breaches of security on our network may result in liability, a loss of customers and damage to our reputation. Increased energy costs and power outages may adversely affect our operating results. Our data centers are susceptible to regional costs of power and electrical power outages. We attempt to limit exposure to system downtime by using backup generators and power supplies. However, we may not be able to limit our exposure entirely even with these protections in place. In addition, we may not always be able to pass on the increased costs of energy on to our customers, which could harm our business. Our failure to successfully implement our growth strategy could harm our business. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain IT professionals, technical engineers, operations employees, sales and senior management personnel who maintain relationships with our customers and who can provide the technical, strategic and marketing skills required for our company to grow. There is a shortage of qualified personnel in these fields, and we compete with other companies for the limited pool of these personnel. In addition, we currently do not have a Chief Executive Officer or Chief Legal Officer. Furthermore, our growth strategy includes expanding our colocation business. Increasing our colocation business depends on our ability to either raise prices to existing customers or lease or acquire facilities in the desired markets where there is a demand for these services on commercially reasonable terms. There is no assurance that we will be able to recruit or retain qualified personnel or that we will be able to lease or acquire facilities in growth markets on commercially reasonable terms, and this failure to implement our growth strategy could cause our operations and financial results to be negatively impacted. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely upon a combination of internal and external nondisclosure safeguards including confidentiality agreements as well as trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights. We cannot however assure you that the steps taken by us in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. We also are subject to the risk of litigation alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Any such claims could require us to spend significant sums in litigation, pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property, or acquire licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of the alleged infringement. 17 Table of Contents Difficulties presented by international economic, political, legal, accounting and business factors could harm our business in international markets. In 2005, 18% of our total revenue was generated in countries outside of the United States. Some risks inherent in conducting business internationally include: • unexpected changes in regulatory, tax and political environments; • longer payment cycles and problems collecting accounts receivables; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • our ability to secure and maintain the necessary physical and telecommunications infrastructure; • challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • laws and regulations on content distributed over the Internet that are more restrictive than those currently in place in the United States. Any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY The markets for our network, hosting, digital content services, industry solutions, and professional services are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively. The markets for our network, hosting, digital content services, industry solutions, and professional services are extremely competitive, and there are few significant barriers to entry. We expect that competition will intensify in the future, and we may not have the financial resources, technical expertise, sales and marketing abilities or support capabilities to compete successfully in these markets. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and greater market presence, engineering and marketing capabilities and financial, technological and personnel resources than we do. As a result, as compared to us, our competitors may: • develop and expand their networking infrastructures and service offerings more efficiently or more quickly; • adapt more rapidly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements; • take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more effectively; • develop products and services that are superior to ours or have greater market acceptance; • adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the promotion, marketing, sale, research and development of their products and services; • make more attractive offers to our existing and potential employees; • establish cooperative relationships with each other or with third parties; and • more effectively take advantage of existing relationships with customers or exploit a more widely recognized brand name to market and sell their services. We may have to compete with an increased number of competitors. We expect that new competitors will enter the data networking, Internet access and hosting markets. Such new competitors could include computer hardware, software, media and other technology and telecommunications companies, as well as satellite and cable companies. A number of telecommunications companies and online service providers currently offer, or have announced plans to offer or expand, their data networking services. Further, the ability of some of these potential competitors to bundle other services and products with their data networking services could place us at a competitive disadvantage. Various companies are also exploring the possibility of providing, or are currently providing, high-speed data services using alternative delivery methods, including the cable television infrastructure, direct broadcast satellites, all optical networks, gigabit ethernet, wireless cable and wireless local access. In addition, Internet backbone providers may benefit from technological developments, such as improved router technology that will enhance the quality of their services. Because we purchase telecommunications services from local competitors, this may result in decreased local competition and increased our costs for local telecommunications services and thus increase prices to our customers. Our failure to achieve desired price levels could impact our ability to achieve profitability or positive cash flow. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience pricing pressure for some of the services that we offer. Prices for voice, wireless, and Internet services have decreased in recent years, and we expect significant price declines in the future. In addition, by bundling their services and reducing the overall cost of their services, telecommunications companies that compete with us may be able to provide customers with reduced communications costs in connection with their data networking, Internet access or hosting services, thereby significantly increasing pricing pressure on us. We may not be able to offset the effects of any such price reductions even with an increase in the number of our customers, higher revenues from enhanced services, cost reductions or otherwise. In addition, we 18 Table of Contents believe that the data networking and VPNs and Internet access and hosting industries are likely to continue to encounter consolidation which could result in greater efficiencies in the future. Increased price competition or consolidation in these markets could result in erosion of our revenues and operating margins and could prevent us from becoming profitable. Furthermore, in recent months, these larger consolidated telecommunication providers have indicated that they want to start charging companies delivering services over the Internet for access to connected customers. If these providers are able to charge Internet companies for this, our costs will increase, and this could impact our ability to be profitable. Consolidation in the telecommunications industry may impede our ability to compete effectively. In recent months, several telecommunication companies completed mergers with other telecommunication companies, including the mergers of SBC Communications Inc. with AT&T Corp. and Verizon Communications, Inc. with MCI, Inc. This consolidation in the telecommunications industry results in fewer companies competing in this market, changing the nature of the market and possibly causing us to pay higher prices for the services that we receive from these companies, which may impede our ability to compete effectively. Our operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain peering arrangements with Internet Service Providers on favorable terms. We enter into peering agreements with Internet Service Providers that allow us to access the Internet and exchange traffic with these providers. Previously, many providers agreed to exchange traffic without charging each other. Recently, however, many providers that previously offered peering have reduced peering relationships or are seeking to impose charges for transit. Increases in costs associated with Internet and exchange traffic could have an adverse effect on our business. If we are not able to maintain our peering relationships on favorable terms, we may not be able to provide our customers with affordable services, which would adversely affect our results from operations. New technologies could displace our services or render them obsolete. New technologies or industry standards have the potential to replace or provide lower cost alternatives to our Internet access services, data networking and hosting services. The adoption of such new technologies or industry standards could render these services obsolete or unmarketable. For example, these services rely on the continued widespread commercial use of the set of protocols, services and applications for linking computers known as Internet protocol. Alternative sets of protocols, services and applications for linking computers could emerge and become widely adopted. For example, improvements in Internet protocol to allow for the assignment of priorities to data packets in order to ensure their delivery in the manner customers prefer would eliminate one advantage of the Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) architecture of our network. In addition, improvements in heating and cooling technology could render our data centers obsolete. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify new service opportunities successfully and develop and bring new products and services to market in a timely and cost-effective manner, or that products software and services or technologies developed by others will not render our current and future services non-competitive or obsolete. In addition, we cannot guarantee that our current and future services will achieve or sustain market acceptance or be able to address effectively the compatibility and interoperability issues raised by technological changes or new industry standards. If we fail to anticipate the emergence of, or obtain access to a new technology or industry standard, we may incur increased costs if we seek to use those technologies and standards, or our competitors that use such technologies and standards may use them more cost-effectively than we do. The data networking and Internet access industries are highly regulated in many of the countries in which we plan to provide services, which could restrict our ability to conduct business in the United States and internationally. We are subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we provide services. Local laws and regulations, and their interpretation and enforcement, differ significantly among those jurisdictions. Future regulatory, judicial and legislative changes may have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver services within various jurisdictions. For example, the EU will enact a data retention scheme that will include certain IP data that could have an impact on our operations in Europe. Moreover, national regulatory frameworks that are consistent with the policies and requirements of the World Trade Organization have only recently been, or are still being put in place in many countries. Accordingly, many countries are still in the early stages of providing for and adapting to a liberalized telecommunications market. As a result, in these markets we may encounter more protracted and difficult procedures to obtain licenses and negotiate interconnection agreements. Within the United States, the U.S. government continues to evaluate the data networking and Internet access industries. The FCC has a number of on-going proceedings that could impact our ability to provide services. For example, the FCC has determined that the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act applies to broadband access providers and interconnected VoIP, and the FCC has also issued a policy statement on “net neutrality” principles that it believes should govern the Internet. Such regulations and policies may complicate our efforts to provide services in the future. 19 Table of Contents Our operations are dependent on licenses and authorizations from governmental authorities in most of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate or plan to operate and, with respect to a limited number of our services, in the United States. These licenses and authorizations generally will contain clauses pursuant to which we may be fined or our license may be revoked on short notice. Consequently, we may not be able to obtain or retain the licenses necessary for our operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK We are controlled by parties whose interests may not be aligned with yours. Investment partnerships sponsored by Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe (Welsh Carson) own approximately 55% of our outstanding voting stock as of December 31, 2005. In addition, these investment partnerships currently have the right to appoint half of the members of our Board of Directors pursuant to an Investors Rights Agreement among us and certain of our stockholders. During 2002, we issued $133.3 million of our 11.5% Series A convertible preferred stock (Series A Preferred) to investment partnerships sponsored by and individuals affiliated with Welsh Carson. The Series A Preferred accrues dividends at the rate of 11.5% per annum on the outstanding accreted value thereof and these accrued but unpaid dividends are added to the outstanding accreted value quarterly. The Series A Preferred is convertible into such number of our common stock equal to the outstanding accreted value divided by the conversion price of $0.75, and votes with our common stock on an as-converted basis. As of December 31, 2005, the accreted value of Series A Preferred held by Welsh Carson was $203.0 million, which was convertible into approximately 270.7 million shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2005, including outstanding common stock of approximately 52.8 million, investment partnerships sponsored by Welsh Carson had outstanding voting stock representing a total of approximately 323.5 million votes. In 2004, in order to fund our acquisition of the CWA net assets, we issued $200.0 million of our Series A Subordinated Notes. As of December 31, 2005, investment partnerships sponsored by Welsh Carson held approximately $147.0 million of these notes. Both the Series A Subordinated Notes and Series A Preferred contain provisions relating to a change of control of our Company. These factors, among others, could result in decisions concerning our operations or financial structure that may present conflicts of interest between Welsh Carson and its affiliates and our other common stockholders. Holders of our common stock will continue to suffer significant dilution so long as our Series A Preferred Stock remains outstanding. In 2002, as part of our recapitalization, we issued $203.1 million of Series A Preferred. The Series A Preferred accrues dividends at the rate of 11.5% annum on the outstanding accreted value thereof, and these accrued but unpaid dividends are added to the outstanding accreted value quarterly. The Series A Preferred is convertible into such number of our common stock equal to the outstanding accreted value divided by the conversion price of $0.75, and votes with our common stock on an as-converted basis. As of December 31, 2005, the accreted value of all Series A Preferred was $308.2 million, which is convertible into approximately 410.9 million shares of common stock. There may not be an active, liquid market for our common stock. There is no guarantee that an active trading market for our common stock will be maintained on the Nasdaq Capital Market. The Nasdaq Stock Market (Nasdaq) may delist our stock from the Nasdaq Capital Market if we fail to meet its listing requirements, such as the requirement to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 or more. On October 3, 2005, we received a notice from the Listing Qualifications division of Nasdaq indicating that our common stock is subject to potential delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market because our common stock closed under $1.00 for thirty consecutive days. We have until April 3, 2006 to regain compliance. If we cannot demonstrate compliance by April 3, 2006, Nasdaq will determine whether we meet Nasdaq Capital Market initial listing criteria except for the bid price requirement. If we meet this initial listing criteria, Nasdaq will notify us that we have an additional 180 calendar days to regain compliance. We may regain compliance if at any time before April 3, 2006, the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. However, Nasdaq has the discretion to require compliance for a period in excess of 10 consecutive business days, but generally no more than 20 consecutive business days, under certain circumstances. If we are unable to regain compliance, we may be delisted. If trading in our stock is not active, investors may not be able to sell their shares quickly or at the latest market price. We may effect a reverse stock split to avoid our common stock being delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. We may effect a reverse stock split in order to avoid being delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. However, while we expect that the resulting reduction in our outstanding shares of common stock will increase the market price of our common stock, we cannot assure you that the reverse stock split will increase the market price of our common stock by a multiple equal to the number of pre-split shares in the reverse split ratio, or result in any permanent increase in the market price. In some cases the stock price of companies that have effected reverse stock splits has subsequently declined back to pre-reverse split levels. A reverse stock split is often viewed negatively by the market and, consequently, could lead to a decrease in our overall market capitalization. 20 Table of Contents Sales of a significant amount of our common stock in the public market could reduce our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. We have approximately 181.5 million shares of common stock outstanding as of February 24, 2006. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, we have approximately 410.9 million common shares issuable pursuant to the conversion of our Series A Preferred and approximately 13.1 million shares of common stock issuable pursuant to the exercise of outstanding warrants. The holders of our Series A Preferred and warrants are also entitled to certain registration rights. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales will occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Those sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity and equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we consider appropriate. Our stock price is subject to significant volatility. Since January 2005 until the present, the price per share of our common stock has ranged from a high of $1.23 per share to a low of $0.41 per share. Our stock price has been and may continue to be subject to significant volatility due to sales of our securities by significant shareholders and the other risks and uncertainties described in this Form 10-K. The price of our common stock may also fluctuate due to conditions in the technology industry or in the financial markets generally. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law contain provisions which may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, including provisions that give the Board of Directors the power to issue shares of preferred stock. We have also chosen to be subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to certain exceptions, prevents a stockholder of more than 15% of a company’s voting stock from entering into business combinations set forth under Section 203 with that company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. As of the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K, there were no unresolved comments from the Staff of the SEC. 