Item 1A. Risk Factors Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common shares. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed. In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our financial condition and results of operations may vary, which may cause the price of our common shares to decline. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and could do so in the future. Because our operating results are difficult to predict, you should not rely on quarterly comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. 18 Table of Contents Fluctuations in our operating results may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and those identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section: • general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, and current general economic volatility; • order or shipment cancellations, rescheduling or deferrals of significant customer orders; • our ability to scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products and services or demand for new products requested by our customers; • gain or loss of a key customer; • our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure for our manufacturing and assembly and test processes; • failure to qualify our products or our suppliers’ manufacturing lines; • our ability to exercise stringent quality control measures to obtain high yields; and • effective and timely update of equipment and facilities as required for leading edge production capabilities. Due to fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and other factors, the price at which our common shares will trade is likely to continue to be highly volatile. Recently we have experienced a substantial downturn in the market price of our common shares. In future periods, if our revenues or operating results are below our estimates or the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. On average, technology companies have been subject to a greater number of securities class action claims than companies in many other industries as a result of stock price volatility. If our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted by the recent global financial crisis. As a result, our financial results and the market price of our common shares may decline. We operate primarily in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. From time to time, this industry has experienced significant demand downturns. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories and sometimes accelerated erosion of prices. These factors could cause substantial fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations. In addition, during these downturns some competitors may become more aggressive in their pricing practices, which would adversely impact our gross margin. Furthermore, our foundry partners often require significant amounts of financing in order to build wafer fabrication facilities. If they are unable to obtain financing and anticipated capacity is not completed, we may experience a shortage of capacity, which could increase our costs or reduce our ability to meet customer demand. Any downturns in the current environment may be severe and prolonged, and any failure of the markets in which we operate to fully recover from downturns could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recently global credit and financial markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruptions, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, volatile energy costs, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. As a result, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 we experienced cancellations, deferrals and a significant slowdown in orders and anticipate that these lower revenue levels could continue for the foreseeable future. These conditions make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and could cause global businesses to slow spending on our products and services, which 19 Table of Contents would delay and lengthen sales cycles. During challenging economic times our customers and distributors may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could impact their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding would increase. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, global or in the hard disk drive and semiconductor industry. If the economy or markets in which we operate continue to deteriorate, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, the combination of our lengthy sales cycle coupled with challenging macroeconomic conditions could adversely impact our results of operations. Changes in our management may cause uncertainty in, or be disruptive to, our business. We have experienced significant changes in our management and our Board of Directors in recent years. In May 2007, our former Chief Financial Officer resigned. In addition, our former Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, who is one of our co-founders, resigned from those executive officer positions and as a member of our Board of Directors but continued to serve in various non-executive officer positions for our U.S. operating subsidiary. In June 2008, we hired a Chief Financial Officer to replace our Interim Chief Financial Officer who transitioned to Acting Chief Operating Officer. The service of our Acting Chief Operating Officer concluded in October 2008 and our Chief Financial Officer was appointed to serve as Interim Chief Operating Officer until a permanent replacement can be hired. We also recently hired a new general counsel of our U.S. operating subsidiary. If we cannot recruit a qualified permanent replacement for the position of Chief Operating Officer, our business may suffer. Moreover, we continue to search for new independent directors to fill the existing vacancies on our Board of Directors, and two of the independent directors currently on our Board of Directors joined our Board of Directors in October 2007 and July 2008, respectively. An independent director will either succeed Dr. Sehat Sutardja as Chairman of the Board or be appointed to a new position of Lead Director. Although we will endeavor to implement any director and management transition in as non-disruptive a manner as possible, any such transition might impact our business, and give rise to uncertainty among customers, investors, vendors, employees and others concerning our future direction and performance. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the ability of our management team to work together effectively. The loss of any of our management or other key personnel could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. Moreover, our success will depend on our ability to attract, hire and retain qualified management and other key personnel and on the abilities of the new management personnel to function effectively, both individually and as a group, going forward. If we are unable to attract and retain effective qualified replacements for our key executives and board of directors positions in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected and our ability to execute our business model could be impaired. We and certain of our current and former officers and directors have been named as parties to consolidated purported shareholder derivative and class action lawsuits relating to our historic stock option granting practices, and may be named in additional litigation, all of which could require significant management time and attention, result in significant legal expenses, or cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to suffer. We have been named as a nominal defendant in a purported consolidated shareholder derivative action that names a number of our current and former directors and officers as defendants and that seeks to recover damages purportedly sustained by us in connection with our historic stock option granting practices. The parties in the consolidated derivative lawsuit have reached a tentative settlement, as described below. In addition, a putative consolidated class action has been filed against us and certain of our current and former officers and directors that alleges violations of the federal securities laws in connection with our historic stock option granting practices and which seeks to recover damages. Although our settlement with the SEC in May 2008 concluded the SEC’s formal investigation of us with respect to our historic stock option granting practices, we cannot be certain regarding the outcome of any other unresolved litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions relating to our historic stock option granting practices. 20 Table of Contents Our historic stock option granting practices and the restatement of our financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. We and our current and former executive officers and board members may in the future be subject to additional private and government actions relating to our historic stock option granting practices. Subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees in connection with such lawsuits and government investigations of our historic stock option granting practices and any subsequent litigation. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits. Regardless of the outcome, these lawsuits, and any other litigation that may be brought against us or our directors and officers, could be time consuming, result in significant expense, and divert the attention and resources of our management and other key employees, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An unfavorable outcome in these litigations could exceed the proceeds obtained from a settlement and policy release with our directors and officers liability insurers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, we could be required to pay damages or additional penalties or have other remedies imposed against us, our directors, executive officers or other officers, or employees, which could harm our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, our settlement with the SEC, the tentatively settled shareholder derivative actions and the pending class action litigation could have a negative impact on our relationships with customers, suppliers and business partners, our ability to generate revenue, our ability to obtain director and officer insurance coverage, our ability to attract and retain employees, officers and directors, our ability to access debt and equity markets, customer and investor confidence in our board and management, and our revenue, net income, expenses, results of operations, profitability, earnings per share and cash flows. The tentative settlement of the consolidated shareholder derivative actions requires the court’s preliminary and final approval, and may not be approved by the court. On or about March 5, 2008, the parties to the consolidated shareholder derivative action entered into a memorandum of understanding that tentatively settles and resolves the pending consolidated derivative action filed in connection with our historic stock option granting practices. This tentative settlement of the consolidated derivative action requires court approval before it becomes final. The court may not preliminarily or finally approve the tentative settlement. If the court does not approve the tentative settlement, the parties might elect or be required to continue litigating the consolidated derivative actions. As a result of the settlement with the SEC, we cannot invoke the “safe harbor” for the forward-looking statements provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for three years following the entry of judgment. On May 8, 2008, we announced that we had reached an agreement with the SEC to settle this matter. As a result of our SEC settlement, we have forfeited for three years following the entry of judgment, or June 20, 2011, the ability to invoke the “safe harbor” for the forward-looking statements provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This safe harbor provided us enhanced protection from liability related to forward-looking statements if the forward-looking statements were either accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements or were made without actual knowledge that they were false or misleading. Without the statutory safe harbor, it may be more difficult for us to defend against any claims based on forward-looking statements. Class action litigation due to stock price volatility or other factors could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. Securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Companies in the integrated circuit industry and other technology industries are 21 Table of Contents particularly vulnerable to this kind of litigation due to the high volatility of their stock prices. Accordingly, we may in the future be the target of additional securities litigation. Any securities litigation could result in substantial costs, could divert the attention and resources of our management, and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, financial results, results of operations and cash flows. If the recent worsening of credit market conditions continues or increases, it could have a material adverse impact on our investment portfolio. Recent U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults have had a significant impact across various sectors of the financial markets, causing global credit and liquidity issues. The short-term funding markets experienced credit issues beginning in the second half of calendar 2007 and continuing to date through the first quarter of calendar 2009, leading to liquidity disruption in asset-backed commercial paper and failed auctions in the auction rate securities market. If the global credit market continues to deteriorate, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments are impaired. This could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. As of January 31, 2009, our investment portfolio included $41.9 million in par value of auction rate securities. Auction rate securities are usually found in the form of municipal bonds, preferred stock, pools of student loans or collateralized debt obligations with contractual maturities generally between 20 and 30 years and whose interest rates are reset every seven to 35 days through an auction process. At the end of each reset period, investors can sell or continue to hold the securities at par. Our auction rate securities are all backed by student loans originated under the Federal Family Education Loan Program, or the FFELP, and are over-collateralized, insured and guaranteed by the United States Federal Department of Education, or the DOE. All auction rate securities held by us are rated by the major independent rating agencies as either AAA or Aaa at the time of purchase and their current ratings are still within the guidelines of our investment policy. Beginning in February 2008, liquidity issues in the global credit markets resulted in failure of the auctions representing all of the auction rate securities held by us, as the amount of securities submitted for sale in those auctions exceed the amount of bids. Due to the auction failures, the auction rate securities do not have a readily determinable market value. To estimate the fair value of the auction rate securities as of January 31, 2009, we used a discounted cash flow model on the estimated timing and amount of future interest and principal payments, credit quality of the underlying securities and liquidity considerations, the collateralization of underlying security investments, the credit worthiness of the issuer of the securities, the probability of full repayment considering the guarantees by the DOE of the underlying student loans, guarantees by other third parties, additional credit enhancements included in the securities, and the rate of return required by investors to own these securities in the current environment. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, UBS, one of the brokers who we purchased auction rate securities from, offered a settlement where UBS has the right to call and sell one of the auction securities we purchased from them at par value of $5 million at a future date. As a result of our participation in this settlement, we included the put option from the settlement in the long term investments and elected to apply Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities,” or SFAS 159, to measure the put option at fair value. We also elected to transfer this auction rate security to trading securities from available-for-securities pursuant to SFAS 115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” or SFAS 115, as our intent is to exercise the put option at a future date. As of January 31, 2009, the estimated fair values of the auction rate securities were $1.3 million less than their par value. Based primarily on our ability and intent to hold these securities until recovery and the extent of impairment, we concluded the decline in fair values was temporary and recorded the unrealized loss to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of shareholders’ equity as of January 31, 2009. We specifically noted that we had approximately 4.5% of our total cash invested in these auction rate securities, a cash balance of approximately $927.4 million in cash and cash equivalents other than auction rate securities and restricted cash, and that we continue to generate positive cash flow on a quarterly basis. 22 Table of Contents To the extent we determine that any impairment is other-than-temporary, the impairment would be recorded to earnings. In addition, we have concluded that the auctions for these securities may continue to fail for at least the next 12 months and as a result, these auction rate securities have been classified as long-term investments as of January 31, 2009. In addition, to support our international operations, a portion of our cash and investment portfolio is held offshore. While these amounts are primarily invested in U.S. dollars, a portion is held in foreign currencies, and all offshore balances are exposed to local political, banking, currency control and other risks. Certain of these amounts may also be subject to tax and other restrictions on their transfer to the U.S. or other countries. While we believe our cash and investments are secure, there is risk that some of our balances in international locations will not be adequately secured if the current credit crisis continues. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions and investments, which could divert management’s attention, cause ownership dilution to our shareholders, be difficult to integrate and adversely affect our results of operations and share price. We expect to continue to make acquisitions of, and investments in, businesses that offer complementary products, services and technologies, augment our market segment coverage, or enhance our technological capabilities. In the past three fiscal years, we have completed the acquisition of the ICAP Business and other small acquisitions. We may also enter into strategic alliances or joint ventures to achieve these goals. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment, alliance or joint venture opportunities in the future, or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions or relationships on terms and conditions acceptable to us, or that such transactions or relationships will be successful. Integrating newly acquired businesses or technologies typically entail many risks that could put a strain on our resources, could be costly and time consuming, and might not be successful. In addition, any acquisitions could materially harm our results of operations or liquidity as a result of either the issuance of dilutive equity securities or payment of cash. Moreover, such acquisitions could divert our management’s attention from other business concerns and also result in customer dissatisfaction. In addition, we might lose key employees of the newly acquired organizations during the acquisition process. The acquisition of another company or its products and technologies may also require us to enter into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. In addition, the purchase price of any acquired businesses may exceed the current fair values of the net tangible assets of the acquired businesses. As a result, we would be required to record material amounts of goodwill, acquired in-process research and development, or IPRD, charges and other intangible assets, which could result in significant impairment and acquired IPRD charges and amortization expense in future periods. It may also be necessary for us to take other financial charges and reserves as a result of acquisitions, such as inventory write-downs. These charges, in addition to the results of operations of such acquired businesses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to potential impairment charges on certain assets. Over the past several years, we have made several acquisitions. As a result of these acquisitions, we had approximately $2.0 billion of goodwill and $287.0 million of intangible assets on our balance sheet as of January 31, 2009. Under GAAP, we are required to review our intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. If the businesses acquired fail to meet our expectations set out at the time of the acquisition or if our market capitalization adjusted for control premiums and other factors declines to below our carrying value, we could incur significant impairment charges, which could negatively impact our financial results. For example, as a result of our analysis related to acquired intangible assets, we recorded an impairment charge of $15.6 million in the fourth quarter ended January 31, 2009. In addition, from time to time, we have made investments in other 23 Table of Contents private companies. If the companies that we invest in are unable to execute their plans and succeed in their respective markets, we may not benefit from such investments, and we could potentially lose the amounts we invest. In addition, we evaluate our investment portfolio on a regular basis to determine if impairments have occurred. Impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations in any period. A significant portion of our business is dependent on the hard disk drive industry, which is highly cyclical, experiences rapid technological change, and is facing increased competition from alternative technologies. The hard disk drive industry is intensely competitive, and the technology changes rapidly. As a result, this industry is highly cyclical, with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction. These cycles may affect us because some of our customers are participants in this industry. Hard disk drive manufacturers tend to order more components than they may need during growth periods, and sharply reduce orders for components during periods of contraction. In addition, advances in existing technologies and the introduction of new technologies may result in lower demand for disk drive storage devices, thereby reducing demand for our products. Rapid technological changes in the hard disk drive industry often result in significant and rapid shifts in market share among the industry’s participants. If the hard disk drive manufacturers using our products do not retain or increase their market share, our sales may decrease. Future changes in the nature of information storage products may reduce demand for traditional hard disk drives. For instance, products using alternative technologies, such as semiconductor memory, optical storage, solid-state flash drives and other storage technologies could become a significant source of competition to manufacturers of hard disk drives. Flash memory has typically been more costly than disk drive technologies. However, flash memory manufacturers have been reducing the prices for their products, which could enable them to complete more effectively with very small form factor hard disk drive products. Demand for hard disk drives could be reduced if alternative storage technologies such as flash memory can meet customers’ cost and capacity requirements. Our sales are concentrated in a few customers, and if we lose or experience a significant reduction in sales to any of these key customers, our revenues may decrease substantially. We receive a significant amount of our revenues from a limited number of customers. For the year ended January 31, 2009, one customer accounted for a total of approximately 21% of our net revenue. Sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer, as well as the continued diversification of our customer base as we expand into new markets, and will likely continue to fluctuate dramatically in the future. The loss of any of our large customers, a significant reduction in sales we make to them, or any problems we encounter collecting amounts due from them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our products. In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: • substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty; • our customers may develop their own solutions; • our customers may purchase integrated circuits from our competitors; or • our customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products. 24 Table of Contents We rely on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our integrated circuit products, and the failure of any of these third party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our growth. We do not have our own manufacturing or assembly facilities and have very limited in-house testing facilities. Therefore, we rely on third party vendors to manufacture, assemble and test the products we design. We currently rely on several third party foundries to produce substantially all of our integrated circuit products. We also currently rely on several third party assembly and test subcontractors to assemble, package and test our products. This exposes us to a variety of risks, including the following: Regional Concentration: Substantially all of our products are manufactured by third party foundries located in Taiwan. Currently our alternative manufacturing sources are located in China and Singapore. In addition, substantially all of our assembly and testing facilities are located in Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia and the Philippines. Because of the geographic concentration of these third party foundries, we are exposed to the risk that their operations may be disrupted by regional disasters. For example, the risk of an earthquake in Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim region is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines to the facilities of our foundries and assembly and test subcontractors. In September 1999, a major earthquake in Taiwan affected the facilities of several of these third party contractors. As a consequence of this earthquake, these contractors suffered power outages and disruptions that impaired their production capacity. Major earthquakes also occurred in Taiwan in 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2006. In addition, the resurgence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, the outbreak of avian flu and any similar future outbreaks in Asia, where these foundries are located, could affect the production capabilities of our manufacturers by resulting in quarantines or closures. In the event of such a quarantine or closure, if we were unable to quickly identify alternate manufacturing facilities, our revenues, cost of revenues and results of operations would be negatively impacted. If these vendors do not provide us with high-quality products and services in a timely manner, or if one or more of these vendors terminates its relationship with us, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacements to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis, our relationships with our customers could suffer, our sales could decrease and harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. No Guarantee of Capacity or Supply: Availability of foundry capacity has from time to time in the past been constrained due to strong demand, and with limited exceptions, our vendors are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. The ability of each foundry to provide us with semiconductor devices is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations. Although we have entered into contractual commitments to supply specified levels of products to some of our customers, we may not have sufficient levels of production capacity with all of our foundries, despite signing a long-term guaranteed production capacity agreement with one of our foundries. Despite this agreement, foundry capacity may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. We place our orders on the basis of our customers’ purchase orders or our forecast of customer demand, and the foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and better financed than we are or that have long-term agreements with our main foundries, may induce our foundries to reallocate capacity to those customers. This reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of components that we need. Although we use several independent foundries to manufacture substantially all of our semiconductor products, most of our components are not manufactured at more than one foundry at any given time, and our products typically are designed to be manufactured in a specific process at only one of these foundries. Accordingly, if one of our foundries is unable to provide us with components as needed, it may be difficult for us 25 Table of Contents to transition the manufacture of our products to other foundries, and we could experience significant delays in securing sufficient supplies of those components. This could result in a material decline in revenues, net income and cash flow. In order to secure sufficient foundry capacity when demand is high and mitigate the risks described in the foregoing paragraph, we may enter into various arrangements with suppliers that could be costly and harm our results of operations, such as non-refundable deposits with or loans to foundries in exchange for capacity commitments, and contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of integrated circuits over extended periods. We may not be able to make any such arrangement in a timely fashion or at all, and any arrangements may be costly, reduce our financial flexibility, and not be on terms favorable to us. For example, amounts payable under our foundry capacity are non-refundable regardless of whether we are able to utilize all or any of the guaranteed wafer capacity under the terms of the agreement. Moreover, if we are able to secure foundry capacity, we may be obligated to use all of that capacity or incur penalties. These penalties may be expensive and could harm our financial results. Uncertain Yields and Quality: The fabrication of integrated circuits is a complex and technically demanding process. Our foundries have from time to time experienced manufacturing defects and reduced manufacturing yields. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by our foundries could result in lower than anticipated manufacturing yields or unacceptable performance. Many of these problems are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct. Poor yields from our foundries, or defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, harm our financial results and result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. In addition, defects in our existing or new products could result in significant warranty, support and repair costs, and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts. To the extent that we rely on outside suppliers to manufacture or assemble and test our products, we may have a reduced ability to control directly product delivery schedules and quality assurance. This lack of control may result in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could delay shipments of products or increase manufacturing, assembly, testing or other costs. If we are unable to accurately predict our future sales and to appropriately budget for our expenses, our results of operations could suffer. The rapidly changing nature of the global economy and the markets in which we sell our products limits our ability to accurately forecast quarterly and annual sales. Additionally, because many of our expenses are fixed in the short term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall of sales. If our sales do not increase as anticipated, our profitability could be adversely affected due to our higher expense levels. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we implemented cost reduction measures to reduce operating expenses due to the deteriorating economic environment. Further, in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we announced plans that combined with the cost reduction measures taken in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, will reduce our global workforce by approximately 15%, or approximately 850 employees. We expect cost savings from this restructuring to be used to offset market forces or to be reinvested in our businesses to strengthen our competitiveness, but we cannot be certain that we will be successful in these efforts. 26 Table of Contents We have had material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting in prior fiscal years. Although we believe we have taken the necessary actions to strengthen the weaknesses in our control structure, we cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be filed on a timely basis and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. We strongly believe that effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm our business. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management and our auditors to evaluate and assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. In addition, we are consistently evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls in accordance with Auditing Standard No. 5, a process which sometimes leads to modifications in such controls. These modifications could affect the overall effectiveness or evaluation of the control system in the future by us or our independent registered public accounting firm. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake and errors discovered by personnel within control systems may not be properly disclosed and addressed. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices or changes in existing taxation rules or practices may cause adverse unexpected revenue and expense fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices or changes in existing taxation rules or practices may have a significant effect on our reported results. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. For example, the U.S. Congress is considering legislation affecting the taxation of foreign corporations and such legislation if enacted might adversely affect our future tax liabilities. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices by regulators may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. If we are unable to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and competitive position will be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability, in a timely and cost-effective manner, to develop and introduce new products and enhancements to our existing products. We must also achieve market acceptance for these products and enhancements. If we do not successfully develop and achieve market acceptance for new and enhanced products, our ability to maintain or increase revenues will suffer. The development of our products is highly complex. We occasionally have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and product enhancements, and we could experience delays in the future. Even if new and enhanced products are introduced to the market, we may not be able to achieve market acceptance of them in a timely manner. 27 Table of Contents In addition, our longstanding relationships with some of our larger customers may also deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain customers favorable prices on our products. If these prices are lower than the prices paid by our existing customers, we would have to offer the same lower prices to certain of our customers who have contractual “most favored nation” pricing arrangements. In that event, our average selling prices and gross margins would decline. The loss of a key customer, a reduction in sales to any key customer or our inability to attract new significant customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to appropriately scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products and services or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, our business could be materially and adversely affected. To achieve our business objectives, it may be necessary from time to time for us to expand or contract our operations. For example, we have experienced periods of rapid growth and expansion. Through internal growth and acquisitions, we significantly increased the scope of our operations and expanded our workforce from 1,205 employees, as of January 31, 2003, to 5,552 employees, as of January 31, 2009. Nonetheless, we may not be able to scale our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products and services or to the demand for new products requested by our customers. In that event, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. Conversely, if we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and such demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expected, the rate of increase in our costs and operating expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if such demand does not materialize at the pace which we expect, we may scale down our business further through additional expense and headcount reductions as well as facility consolidations or closures that could result in restructuring charges that would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we implemented cost reduction measures to reduce operating expenses due to the deteriorating economic environment. Further, in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we announced plans that combined with the cost reduction measures taken in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, will reduce our global workforce by approximately 15%, or approximately 850 employees. Our past growth has placed, and any future long-term growth is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To implement our current business and product plans, we will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort. Although we have implemented an enterprise resource planning system to help us improve our planning and management processes, we anticipate that we will also need to continue to implement and improve a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, as well as additional procedures and other internal management systems. These processes can be time consuming and expensive, increase management responsibilities and divert management attention. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, we may be unable to scale our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, or conversely, we may scale our business too quickly and the rate of increase in our costs and expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, either of which would materially and adversely affect our current or future business. We rely on third party distributors and manufacturers’ representatives and the failure of these distributors and manufacturers’ representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future sales. We sell many of our products to customers through distributors and manufacturers’ representatives. From time to time, we enter into relationships with new distributors and manufacturers’ representatives, and we are unable to predict the extent to which new distributors and manufacturers’ representatives will be successful in marketing and selling our products. Moreover, many of our distributors and manufacturers’ representatives also 28 Table of Contents market and sell competing products. Our distributors and manufacturer’s representatives may terminate their relationships with us at any time. Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional distributors or manufacturers’ representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. If we cannot retain our current distributors or manufacturers’ representatives or recruit additional or replacement distributors or manufacturers’ representatives, our sales and operating results will be harmed. We generally realize a higher gross margin on direct sales and from sales through manufacturers’ representatives than on sales through distributors. Accordingly, if our distributors were to account for an increased portion of our net sales, our gross margins may decline. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties, and if we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margin, or, conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potentially in loss of market share and damaged customer relationships. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Customers can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. In the recent past, some of our customers have developed excess inventories of their own products and have, as a consequence, deferred purchase orders for our products. We cannot accurately predict what or how many products our customers will need in the future. Anticipating demand is difficult because our customers face volatile pricing and unpredictable demand for their own products and are increasingly focused more on cash preservation and tighter inventory management. In addition, as an increasing number of our chips are being incorporated into consumer products, we anticipate greater fluctuations in demand for our products, which makes it more difficult to forecast customer demand. We place orders with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. If we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect to, if at all. As a result, we would hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would forgo revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, any future significant cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products could materially and adversely affect our profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. Furthermore, we generally recognize revenue upon shipment of products to a customer. If a customer refuses to accept shipped products or does not timely pay for these products, we could incur significant charges against our income. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that the foundries that we use will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product 29 Table of Contents deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short-term adverse impact on our results of operations, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip. We depend on key personnel with whom we do not have employment agreements to manage our business, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel and hire additional personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering and sales and marketing personnel. The loss of key employees or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineers and sales and marketing personnel could delay the development and introduction of and harm our ability to sell our products. We do not have employment agreements with any of our key technical personnel, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. The competition for qualified technical personnel with significant experience in the design, development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of integrated circuits is intense. It is important that we are able to identify, hire and retain engineers who are familiar with the intricacies of the design and manufacture of products based on analog technology. Our key technical personnel represent a significant asset and serve as the source of our technological and product innovations. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of technical personnel to develop new products or enhance existing products in a timely manner. Two of our officers and directors own a large percentage of our voting stock, and, together with another employee who is also a significant shareholder, are related by blood or marriage. These factors may allow the officers and directors as a group or the three related employees to influence the election of directors and the approval or disapproval of significant corporate actions. Dr. Sehat Sutardja, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Weili Dai, who serves as our Vice President of Sales for Communications and Consumer Business of MSI, are husband and wife, and Dr. Sehat Sutardja and Dr. Pantas Sutardja, our Vice President, Chief Technology Officer and Chief Research and Development Officer, are brothers. Together, these three individuals held approximately 18% of our outstanding common shares as of January 31, 2009. As a result, if these individuals act together, they may influence the election of our directors and the approval or disapproval of any significant corporate actions that require shareholder approval. This influence over our affairs might be adverse to the interests of other shareholders. For instance, the voting power of these individuals could have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of us on terms that other shareholders may desire. Furthermore, we have a classified board, which could further delay or prevent an acquisition, under certain circumstances. Under Bermuda law, all of our officers, in exercising their powers and discharging their duties, must act honestly and in good faith with a view to our best interests and exercise the care, diligence and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. Majority shareholders do not owe fiduciary duties to minority shareholders. As a result, the minority shareholders will not have a direct claim against the majority shareholders in the event the majority shareholders take actions that damage the interests of minority shareholders. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of Bermuda, except that Bermuda courts would be expected to follow English case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to bring an action in our name if the directors or officers are alleged to be acting beyond our corporate power, committing illegal acts or violating our Memorandum of Association or Bye-laws. In addition, minority shareholders would be able to challenge a corporate action that allegedly constituted a fraud 30 Table of Contents against them or required the approval of a greater percentage of our shareholders than actually approved it. The winning party in such an action generally would be able to recover a portion of attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with the action. As a result of our global operations, we face foreign business, political and economic risks, which may harm our results of operations, because a majority of our products and our customers’ products are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. A substantial portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States and, as a result, we are subject to foreign business, political and economic risks. All of our products are manufactured outside of the United States. Our current qualified integrated circuit foundries are located in the same region within Taiwan, and our primary assembly and test subcontractors are located in the Pacific Rim region. In addition, many of our customers are located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, which further exposes us to foreign risks. Sales to customers located in Asia represented approximately 86% of our net revenue in fiscal 2009, 84% of our net revenue in fiscal 2008 and 89% of our net revenue in fiscal 2007. We have substantial operations, including approximately 21% of our workforce as of January 31, 2009, in Israel. These operations are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Any potential hostilities involving or within Israel could disrupt these operations. For example, past hostilities between Israel and the Palestinian authority and other groups have caused substantial political unrest, which could lead to a potential economic downturn in Israel. We anticipate that our manufacturing, assembly, testing and sales outside of the United States will continue to account for a substantial portion of our operations and revenue in future periods. Accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with international operations, including: • political, social and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, other hostilities and political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; • compliance with domestic and foreign export and import regulations, and difficulties in obtaining and complying with domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; • compliance with foreign laws, and laws and practices that favor local companies; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • trade restrictions or higher tariffs; • transportation delays; • difficulties of managing distributors, especially because we expect to continue to increase our sales through international distributors; • less effective protection of intellectual property than is afforded to us in the United States or other developed countries; and • inadequate local infrastructure. Moreover, the international nature of our business subjects us to risk associated with the fluctuation of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies. Decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus currencies in jurisdictions where we have large fixed costs will increase the cost of such operations, which could harm our results of operations. For example, we have large fixed costs in Israel, which become relatively greater if the U.S. dollar declines in value versus the Israeli shekel. On the other hand, because substantially all of our sales to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars, increases in the value of the U.S. dollar will increase the price of our products so that they become relatively more expensive to customers in the local currency of a particular country, potentially leading to a reduction in sales and profitability for us in that country. A portion of our international revenue may be denominated in foreign currencies in the future, which will subject us to risks associated with fluctuations in exchange rates for those foreign currencies. 31 Table of Contents The average selling prices of products in our markets have historically decreased rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenues and profit margin. The products we develop and sell are used for high volume applications. As a result, the prices of those products have historically decreased rapidly. We may not be able to maintain or improve the gross margins and our gross profits and financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our efficiency through increasing sales volumes, reducing our costs, or developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis with higher selling prices or profit margin. Additionally, because we do not operate our own manufacturing, assembly or testing facilities, we may not be able to reduce our costs as rapidly as companies that operate their own facilities, and our costs may even increase, which could also reduce our margins. In the past, we have reduced the average selling prices of our products in anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and other factors. We expect that we will have to do so again in the future. We have a lengthy and expensive product sales cycle that does not assure product sales, and that if unsuccessful, may harm our results of operations. The sales cycle for many of our products is long and requires us to invest significant resources with each potential customer without any assurance of sales to that customer. Our sales cycle typically begins with an extended evaluation and test period, also known as qualification, during which our products undergo rigorous reliability testing by our customers. Qualification is typically followed by an extended development period by our customers and an additional three to nine month period before a customer commences volume production of equipment incorporating our products. This lengthy sales cycle creates the risk that our customers will decide to cancel or change product plans for products incorporating our integrated circuits. During our sales cycle, our engineers assist customers in implementing our products into the customers’ products. We incur significant research and development, selling and marketing, general and administrative expenses as part of this process, and this process may never generate related revenues. We derive revenue from this process only if our design is selected. Once a customer selects a particular integrated circuit for use in its products, the customer generally will solely use that integrated circuit for a full generation of its product. Therefore, if we do not achieve a design win for a product, we will be unable to sell our integrated circuit to a customer until that customer develops a new product or a new generation of its product. Even if we achieve a design win with a customer, the customer may not ultimately ship products incorporating our products or may cancel orders after we have achieved a sale. In addition, we will have to begin the qualification process again when a customer develops a new generation of a product for which we were the successful supplier for the prior generation. Our typical customer contract does not obligate the customer to any minimum purchase commitment. We may build inventory in anticipation of receiving customer orders, but if such customer demand does not develop as we anticipate, it may become necessary for us to write-off such inventory. Also, during the final production of a mature product, our customers typically exhaust their existing inventory of our integrated circuits. Consequently, orders for our products may decline in those circumstances, even if our products are incorporated into both our customers’ mature and replacement products. A delay in a customer’s transition to commercial production of a replacement product may cause the customer to lose sales, which would delay our ability to recover the lost sales from the discontinued mature product. In addition, customers may defer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements from our competitors or us. We must keep pace with rapid technological change and evolving industry standards in the semiconductor industry to remain competitive. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards and our customers’ changing demands. We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid 32 Table of Contents technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometries. Our past sales and profitability have resulted, to a large extent, from our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products incorporating the new standards and technologies. Our ability to adapt to these changes and to anticipate future standards, and the rate of adoption and acceptance of those standards, will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and prospects for growth. If new industry standards emerge, our products or our customers’ products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards. In addition, our target markets continue to undergo rapid growth and consolidation. A significant slowdown in any of these markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success will also depend on the ability of our customers to develop new products and enhance existing products for the markets we serve and to introduce and promote those products successfully. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete. We believe one of our key competitive advantages results from our collection of proprietary technologies that we have developed since our inception. If we fail to protect these intellectual property rights, competitors could sell products based on technology that we have developed that could harm our competitive position and decrease our revenues. We believe that the protection of our intellectual property rights is and will continue to be important to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. We have been issued several U.S. and foreign patents and have a number of pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. However, a patent may not be issued as a result of any applications or, if issued, claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Despite our efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or proprietary technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and the steps that we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. We may become involved with costly and lengthy litigation, which could subject us to liability, require us to obtain or renew licenses or stop selling our products or force us to redesign our products. Litigation involving patents and other intellectual property is widespread in the high-technology industry and is particularly prevalent in the integrated circuit industry, where a number of companies and other entities aggressively bring numerous infringement claims to assert their patent portfolios. From time to time our subsidiaries and customers receive, and may continue to receive in the future, notices that allege claims of infringement, misappropriation or misuse of the intellectual property rights of third parties. For example, in recent years, multiple claims have been made against our subsidiaries and our customers related to standards-based technologies such as wireless LAN. In addition, we have certain patent licenses with third parties that are up for renewal in calendar year 2009, and if we cannot successfully renew these licenses, our subsidiaries and customers could face claims of infringement. These claims could result in litigation and/or claims for indemnification, which, in turn, could subject us to significant liability for damages, attorneys fees and costs. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling, offering for sale, making, having made or exporting products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; • limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for us; 33 Table of Contents • pay substantial damages and/or license fees and/or royalties to the party claiming infringement that could adversely impact our liquidity or operating results; • attempt to obtain or renew licenses to the relevant intellectual property, which licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and • attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property. In addition, many of our contracts with our customers require us to indemnify our customers’ products against claims alleging infringement of the proprietary rights of other parties. We have agreed to indemnify select customers for claims made against our products, where such claims allege infringement of third party intellectual property rights, including, but not limited to, patents, registered trademarks, and/or copyrights. For example, customers have requested us to indemnify them in connection with a patent infringement lawsuits filed in Texas by Australia’s Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, or CSIRO, which alleges its asserted patent is essential to the 802.11 wireless standard. We have also filed an action, also in Texas, against CSIRO seeking a declaratory judgment that CSIRO’s patent is invalid and unenforceable and that we and our customers do not infringe the CSIRO patent. Similarly, certain customers have asked us to indemnify them in connection with patent infringement lawsuits filed in Texas by Wi-Lan, a Canadian company, who likewise alleges their asserted patents are essential to the 802.11 wireless standard. Marvell is also named as a defendant in those cases. In addition, we filed a declaratory judgment action in California against Wi-Lan asking the court to find that our products do not infringe a certain Wi-Lan patent that Wi-Lan claims read on products that practice IEEE 802.11, 802.16 and/or Bluetooth standards. We believe it does not infringe either the asserted CSIRO or Wi-Lan patents and we will vigorously defend ourselves in these matters. We and/or our subsidiaries are also parties to other claims and litigation proceedings arising in the normal course of business. The impact on us as a result of such claims and litigation cannot currently be ascertained. Any litigation, regardless of the outcome, is time-consuming and expensive to resolve and can divert management time and attention. There can be no assurance that these matters will be resolved in a manner that is not adverse to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business. We maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. These information systems include telecommunications, the Internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, network communications, and e-mail. These information systems are subject to attacks, failures, and access denials from a number of potential sources including viruses, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, communication lines and networking equipment. To the extent that these information systems are under our control, we have implemented security procedures, such as virus protection software and emergency recovery processes, to address the outlined risks. While we believe that our information systems are appropriately controlled and that we have processes in place to adequately manage these risks, security procedures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe and our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business. Tax benefits we receive may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs. Under current Bermuda law, we are not subject to tax on our income and capital gains. We have obtained from the Minister of Finance of Bermuda under the Exempt Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, an undertaking that, in the event that Bermuda enacts any legislation imposing tax computed on income and capital gains, those taxes should not apply to us until March 28, 2016. However, it is possible that this exemption would not be extended beyond that date. The Economic Development Board of Singapore granted Pioneer Status to our wholly-owned subsidiary in Singapore in July 1999. Initially, this tax exemption was to expire after ten years, but the Economic Development 34 Table of Contents Board in June 2006 agreed to extend the term to fifteen years. As a result, we anticipate that a significant portion of the income we earn in Singapore during this period will be exempt from the Singapore income tax. We are required to meet several requirements as to investment, headcount and activities in Singapore to retain this status. In light of the current economic downturn, we are in discussion with the Economic Development Board of Singapore to amend part of the pioneer conditions for the future years. We intend to come to an agreement which would preserve the 15 year tax exemption status and expect to receive the final amendments from the Economic Development Board of Singapore by July 2009. If our Pioneer Status is terminated early, our financial results could be harmed. On February 2, 2008, two Israeli subsidiaries, Marvell Software Solutions Israel Ltd. formerly known as Radlan Computer Communications Ltd. and Marvell DSPC Ltd., or Marvell DSPC, merged into Marvell Israel (M.I.S.L) Ltd., or MISL. In December 2008, the Israel Tax Authorities ruled that the merger agreement under §103H of the Israel Tax Ordinance would allow offset of carryforward net operating losses against the taxable income generated by the merged company but limited to 20% of the accumulated net operating losses prior to the merger or no greater than 50% of the taxable income generated by the merged company during the 5 years following the merger. Any significant changes to our operations in Israel may require a valuation allowance to offset our deferred tax assets which consequently could adversely affect our financial results. Under the law, including Amendment No. 60 to the law that was published in April 2005, by virtue of the “approved or benefited enterprise” status granted to certain of its enterprises, the Israeli subsidiaries are entitled to various tax benefits. Two divisions, MISL and Marvell DSPC, have five approved programs and one program under the amended law. The first program was approved for MISL in 1995 and the most recent was approved in 2006. Marvell D.S.P.C. has five approved programs and two programs under the amended law; with the first approved in 1990 and the most recent in 2007. The benefit period is generally 10 to 15 years and begins commencing in the first year in which our Israeli subsidiaries earn taxable income from the approved or benefited enterprises provided the maximum period to which it is restricted by law has not elapsed. Income from the approved or benefited enterprises is subject to reduced tax rates ranging between 0% and 10% or tax exemptions for fiscal years 2008 through 2020. As our tax holidays expire, we expect that we will start paying income tax at the statutory tax rate on our operations within these development regions which will adversely impact our effective tax rate. During fiscal 2007, our Switzerland subsidiary received a ten-year Federal and Cantonal tax holiday on revenues from research and design and wafer supply trading activities that will expire in 2017. If certain requirements are not met in the initial five-year period, our incentive exemption would be reduced by 50% on the next five-year period of the tax holiday, which would adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to the risks of owning real property. Our U.S. headquarters located in Santa Clara California, and our buildings in Singapore, Malaysia, Switzerland and Shanghai, China subject us to the risks of owning real property, which include: • the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems; • adverse changes in the value of these properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the neighborhood in which the property is located, or other factors; • the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic and other legal or regulatory requirements; • the potential disruption of our business and operations arising from or connected with a relocation due to moving to or renovating the facility; • increased cash commitments for improvements to the buildings or the property or both; 35 Table of Contents • increased operating expenses for the buildings or the property or both; • possible disputes with tenants or other third parties related to the buildings or the property or both; and • the risk of financial loss in excess of amounts covered by insurance, or uninsured risks, such as the loss caused by damage to the buildings as a result of earthquakes, floods and or other natural disasters. We are incorporated in Bermuda, and, as a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. We are organized under the laws of Bermuda. As a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders to effect service of process within the United States upon us, or to enforce against us in United States courts judgments based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. There is significant doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state or hear actions brought in Bermuda against us or those persons based on those laws. The United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on United States federal or state securities laws, would not be automatically enforceable in Bermuda. Our Bye-laws contain a waiver of claims or rights of action by our shareholders against our officers and directors, which will severely limit our shareholders’ right to assert a claim against our officers and directors under Bermuda law. Our Bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers and directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties with or for us, other than with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver will limit the rights of our shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act complained of involves actual fraud or dishonesty. Thus, so long as acts of business judgment do not involve actual fraud or dishonesty, they will not be subject to shareholder claims under Bermuda law. For example, shareholders will not have claims against officers and directors for a breach of trust, unless the breach rises to the level of actual fraud or dishonesty. Our Bye-laws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in corporate control, even if the change in corporate control would benefit our shareholders. Our Bye-laws contain change in corporate control provisions, which include: • authorizing the issuance of preferred stock without shareholder approval; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; and • requiring a vote of two-thirds of the outstanding shares to approve any change of corporate control. These change in corporate control provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be a benefit to our shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 