ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to all other information provided to you in this document. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial also may become important factors that affect our company. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of net losses and we may continue to incur net losses. We incurred a net loss of $44.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, $69.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2005, and $148.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2004. We had positive cash flows from operating activities of $118.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and $62.9 million in the year ended 2005, and negative cash flows from operations of $26.8 million in the year ended 2004. We may also have fluctuations in revenues, expenses and losses due to a number of factors including the following: • demand for and market acceptance of our Hosting and Managed IP VPN products; • increasing sales, marketing and other operating expenses; • our ability to retain key employees that maintain relationships with our customers; • the duration of the sales cycle for our services; • the announcement or introduction of new or enhanced services by our competitors; • acquisitions we may make; • changes in the prices we pay for utilities, local access connections, Internet connectivity and longhaul backbone connections; and • the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures, including costs relating to the expansion of operations, and of the replacement or upgrade of our network and hosting infrastructure. Accordingly, our results of operations for any period may not be comparable to the results of operations for any other period and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. A material reduction in revenue from our largest customer, who represented 15% of our revenues in 2005 and 11% of our revenues in 2006, could harm our financial results to the extent not offset by cost reductions or additional revenue from new or other existing customers. Together, Reuters Limited and Telerate, which was acquired by Reuters in 2005, or Reuters, accounted for $87.6 million, or 11%, of our revenue in 2006 compared to $100.5 million, or 15%, of our revenue in 2005. This reduction was primarily due to reduced pricing for certain of our services, the elimination of minimum revenue commitments based on the terms of a new three-year Master Services Agreement with Reuters that we entered into in May 2005, and the reduction in services purchased by Reuters under our contract with Telerate. Under the new Master Services Agreement with Reuters, Reuters no longer has any obligation to purchase a minimum amount of our services, and there are no assurances that Reuters will continue to purchase services from us under this contract. In addition, Reuters, will continue to reduce the services that we provide under our contract with Telerate to almost zero over the next six months, and we expect that Reuters will account for less than 10% of our revenue in 2007. The loss of this customer or a significant group of our other customers, or a considerable reduction in the amount of our services that Reuters purchases or a significant group of our customers purchase, could materially reduce our revenues which, to the extent not offset by cost reductions or new customer additions, could materially reduce our cash flows and financial position. This may limit our ability to raise capital or fund our operations, working capital needs and capital expenditures in the future. 8 Table of Contents Our failure to meet performance standards under our agreements could result in our customers terminating their relationships with us or our customers being entitled to receive financial compensation which could lead to reduced revenues. Our agreements with our customers contain various guarantees regarding our performance and our levels of service. If we fail to provide the levels of service or performance required by our agreements, our customers may be able to receive service credits for their accounts and other financial compensation, as well as terminate their relationship with us. In addition, any inability to meet our service level commitments or other performance standards could reduce the confidence of our customers and could consequently impair our ability to obtain and retain customers, which would adversely affect both our ability to generate revenues and our operating results. We depend on a number of third-party providers, and the loss of, or problems with, one or more of these providers may impede our growth or cause us to lose customers. We are dependent on third-party providers to supply products and services. For example, we lease equipment from equipment providers and we lease bandwidth capacity from telecommunications network providers in the quantities and quality we require. While we have entered into various agreements for equipment and carrier line capacity, any failure to obtain equipment or additional capacity, if required, would impede the growth of our business and cause our financial results to suffer. In addition, our customers that use the equipment we lease or the services of these telecommunication providers may in the future experience difficulties due to failures unrelated to our systems. If, for any reason, these providers fail to provide the required services to our customers or suffer other failures, we may incur financial losses and our customers may lose confidence in our company, and we may not be able to retain these customers. Our significant indebtedness could limit our ability to operate our business successfully. As of December 31, 2006, the total principal amount of our debt, including capital and financing method lease obligations and net of the original issue discount, was $384.4 million. Our interest expense on our debt outstanding as of December 31, 2006, will be approximately $76.4 million in 2007. Our cash debt service obligation on our debt outstanding as of December 31, 2006, will be approximately $17.2 million in 2007. In February 2004, we issued $200.0 million in Series A Subordinated Notes, or Subordinated Notes, that accrued interest at the rate of 12.5% per annum until February 3, 2005, and thereafter at 15% per annum in order to finance our acquisition of the assets of Cable & Wireless USA, Inc. and Cable & Wireless Internet Services, Inc., or collectively CWA, and to provide ongoing funding to its operations and capital expenditures. Interest on the notes accrues on a non-cash basis and is payable semi-annually in additional Series A Subordinated Notes. The notes, which will have an amount payable of $401.9 million, are due on January 30, 2009. Our revolving credit facility and capital lease obligations require monthly and quarterly cash payments for interest. While we do not currently have any outstanding loans under our revolving credit facility, we have borrowing availability of $73.7 million as of December 31, 2006. Our revolving credit facility matures in 2008 and our capital and financing lease obligations have maturities ranging from three to fifteen years. In addition, on December 18, 2006 we entered into a loan agreement with Cisco Systems Capital Corporation which provides for up to $33.0 million of loans to purchase network equipment manufactured by Cisco Systems, Inc. Our level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may not generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the outstanding amount of our indebtedness. If we do not have sufficient cash available to repay our debt obligations when they mature, we will have to refinance such obligations, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in such refinancing or that the terms of any refinancing will be acceptable to us. The amount of our debt also means that we will need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, reducing the funds available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, sales and marketing initiatives, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes. We may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms to meet our future capital needs. If we do not have sufficient cash flow from our operations, we may need to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings in the future in order to meet our operating and capital needs. We may not be able to secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all, at the time when we need such funding. If we are unable to raise additional funds, we may not be able to pursue our growth strategy and our business could suffer. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. In addition, any debt financing that we may secure in the future could have restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, if we decide to raise funds through debt or convertible debt financings, we may be unable to meet our interest or principal payments. 9 Table of Contents We may make acquisitions or enter into joint ventures or strategic alliances, each of which is accompanied by inherent risks. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may make acquisitions or investments or enter into joint ventures or strategic alliances with other companies. Risks commonly encountered in such transactions include: • the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the combined companies; • the risk that we may not be able to integrate the acquired services, products or technologies with our current services, products and technologies; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business; • the diversion of management attention from our existing business; • the inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel; • the inability of management to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful integration of acquired businesses; • difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies; • the impairment of relationships with employees, suppliers and customers as a result of any integration; • the loss of an acquired base of customers and accompanying revenue; • the assumption of leased facilities, or other long-term commitments that could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and cash flow; and • possible dilution to our stockholders. As a result of these potential problems and risks, businesses that we may acquire or invest in may not produce the revenue, earnings, or business synergies that we anticipated. In addition, we cannot assure you that any potential transaction will be successfully identified and completed or that, if completed, the acquired businesses or investment will generate sufficient revenue to offset the associated costs or other potential harmful effects on our business. We may be liable for the material that content providers distribute over our network. The law relating to the liability of private network operators for information carried on, stored or disseminated through their networks is still unsettled. We may become subject to legal claims relating to the content disseminated on our network. For example, lawsuits may be brought against us claiming that material on our network on which someone relied was inaccurate. Claims could also involve matters such as defamation, invasion of privacy, and copyright infringement. In addition, there are other issues such as online gambling where the legal issues remain uncertain. If we need to take costly measures to reduce our exposure to these risks, or are required to defend ourselves against such claims, our financial results could be negatively affected. Failures in our products or services, including our network and colocation services, could disrupt our ability to provide services, increase our capital costs, result in a loss of customers or otherwise negatively affect our business. Our ability to implement our business plan successfully depends upon our ability to provide high quality, reliable services. Interruptions in our ability to provide our services to our customers or failures in our products or services, through the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem, could adversely affect our business and reputation. For example, problems at one or more of our data center facilities could result in service interruptions or failures or could cause significant equipment damage. In addition, our network could be subject to unauthorized access, computer viruses, and other disruptive problems caused by customers, employees, or others. Unauthorized access, computer viruses or other disruptive problems could lead to interruptions, delays or cessation of service to our customers. Unauthorized access could also potentially jeopardize the security of confidential information of our customers or our customers’ end-users, which might expose us to liability from customers and the government agencies that regulate us, as well as deter potential customers from purchasing our services. Any internal or external breach in our network could severely harm our business and result in costly litigation and potential liability for us. Although we attempt to limit these risks contractually, there can be no assurance that we will limit the risk and not incur financial penalties. To the extent our customers demand that we accept unlimited liability and to the extent there is a competitive trend to accept it, such a trend could affect our ability to retain these limitations in our contracts at the risk of losing the business. In addition, we may be unable to implement disaster recovery or security measures in a timely manner or, if and when implemented, these measures may not be sufficient or could be circumvented through the reoccurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem, or as a result of accidental or intentional actions. Resolving network failures or alleviating security problems may also require interruptions, delays or cessation of service to our customers. Accordingly, failures in our products and services, including problems at our data centers, network interruptions or breaches of security on our network may result in significant liability, a loss of customers and damage to our reputation. 10 Table of Contents Increased energy costs, power outages and limited availability of electrical resources may adversely affect our operating results. Our data centers are susceptible to regional costs of power and electrical power outages. We attempt to limit exposure to system downtime by using backup generators and power supplies. However, we may not be able to limit our exposure entirely even with these protections in place. In addition, we may not always be able to pass on the increased costs of energy to our customers, which could harm our business. Furthermore, power and cooling requirements at our data centers are increasing as a result of the increasing power demands of today’s servers. Since we rely on third parties to provide our data centers with power sufficient to meet our customers’ power needs, and we generally do not control the amount of power drawn by our customers, our data centers could have a limited or inadequate amount of electrical resources. This could adversely affect our relationships with our customers and hinder our ability to run our data centers, which could harm our business. If we are unable to recruit or retain qualified personnel, our business could be harmed. We must continue to identify, hire, train and retain IT professionals, technical engineers, operations employees, and sales and senior management personnel who maintain relationships with our customers and who can provide the technical, strategic and marketing skills required for our company to grow. There is a shortage of qualified personnel in these fields, and we compete with other companies for the limited pool of these personnel. The failure to recruit and retain necessary technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel could harm our business and our ability to grow our company. Our failure to implement our growth strategy successfully could harm our business. Our growth strategy includes expanding our colocation and managed hosting services and upgrading our network to next generation equipment and protocols. Increasing our colocation and managed hosting services depends on our ability to raise prices to existing customers and to lease facilities in the desired markets where there is a demand for these services on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, we have announced plans to upgrade our network equipment and protocols and to develop four new data centers in 2007 as part of our growth strategy. If there are any unplanned delays in either of these initiatives or the cost of implementing these initiatives exceeds our projections, this may harm our financial results. Furthermore, if we experience problems with the performance of our network during our planned upgrade, our customers may be able to receive service credits for their accounts or terminate their contracts with us, which could reduce our revenues. There is no assurance that we will be able to implement these initiatives in a timely or cost effective manner, and this failure to implement our growth strategy could cause our operations and financial results to be negatively impacted. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely upon a combination of internal and external nondisclosure safeguards including confidentiality agreements as well as trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights. We cannot, however, assure that the steps taken by us in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. We also are subject to the risk of litigation alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Any such claims could require us to spend significant sums in litigation, pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property, or acquire licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of the alleged infringement. We have agreed to certain indemnification obligations, which if we are required to perform may negatively impact our operations. In connection with our sale of the assets related to our digital content services, we agreed to indemnify the purchaser for certain losses that it may incur due to a breach of our representations and warranties. If we are required to perform such obligations should they arise, this may harm our operations and prevent us from being able to engage in favorable business activities, consummate strategic acquisitions or otherwise fund capital needs. Difficulties presented by international economic, political, legal, accounting and business factors could harm our business in international markets. For the year ended December 31, 2006, 16% of our total revenue was generated in countries outside of the United States. Some risks inherent in conducting business internationally include: • unexpected changes in regulatory, tax and political environments; • longer payment cycles and problems collecting accounts receivable; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • our ability to secure and maintain the necessary physical and telecommunications infrastructure; • challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • laws and regulations on content distributed over the Internet that are more restrictive than those currently in place in the United States. Any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business. 11 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry The markets for our hosting, network and professional services are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively. The markets for our Hosting, Network and Professional Services are extremely competitive. We expect that competition will intensify in the future, and we may not have the financial resources, technical expertise, sales and marketing abilities or support capabilities to compete successfully in these markets. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and greater market presence, engineering and marketing capabilities and financial, technological and personnel resources than we do. As a result, as compared to us, our competitors may: • develop and expand their networking infrastructures and service offerings more efficiently or more quickly; • adapt more rapidly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements; • take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more effectively; • develop products and services that are superior to ours or have greater market acceptance; • adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the promotion, marketing, sale, research and development of their products and services; • make more attractive offers to our existing and potential employees; • establish cooperative relationships with each other or with third parties; and • more effectively take advantage of existing relationships with customers or exploit a more widely recognized brand name to market and sell their services. Our failure to achieve desired price levels could impact our ability to achieve profitability or positive cash flow. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience pricing pressure for some of the services that we offer. Prices for Internet services have decreased in recent years and may decline in the future. In addition, by bundling their services and reducing the overall cost of their services, telecommunications companies that compete with us may be able to provide customers with reduced communications costs in connection with their hosting, data networking or Internet access services, thereby significantly increasing pricing pressure on us. We may not be able to offset the effects of any such price reductions even with an increase in the number of our customers, higher revenues from enhanced services, cost reductions or otherwise. In addition, we believe that the data networking and VPNs and Internet access and hosting industries are likely to continue to encounter consolidation which could result in greater efficiencies in the future. Increased price competition or consolidation in these markets could result in erosion of our revenues and operating margins and could have a negative impact on our profitability. Furthermore, these larger consolidated telecommunication providers have indicated that they want to start billing companies delivering services over the Internet a premium charge for priority access to connected customers. If these providers are able to charge companies such as us for this, our costs will increase, and this could affect our results of operations. Consolidation in the telecommunications industry may impede our ability to compete effectively. Recently, several telecommunication companies completed mergers with other telecommunication companies, including the mergers of SBC Communications Inc. with AT&T Corp. and Verizon Communications, Inc. with MCI, Inc. This consolidation in the telecommunications industry results in fewer companies competing in this market, changing the nature of the market and possibly causing us to pay higher prices for the services that we receive from these companies, which may impede our ability to compete effectively. Our operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain peering arrangements with Internet Service Providers on favorable terms. We enter into peering agreements with Internet Service Providers that allow us to access the Internet and exchange traffic with these providers. Previously, many providers agreed to exchange traffic without charging each other. Recently, however, many providers that previously offered peering have reduced peering relationships or are seeking to impose charges for transit, especially for unbalanced traffic offered and received by us to these peering partners. For example, several network operators with large numbers of individual users claim that they should be able to charge network operators and businesses that send traffic to those users. Increases in costs associated with Internet and exchange traffic could have an adverse effect on our business. If we are not able to maintain our peering relationships on favorable terms, we may not be able to provide our customers with affordable services, which would adversely affect our results from operations. New technologies could displace our services or render them obsolete. New technologies or industry standards have the potential to replace or provide lower cost alternatives to our hosting, networking and Internet access services. The adoption of such new technologies or industry standards could render our technology and services obsolete or unmarketable or require us to incur significant capital expenditures to expand and upgrade our technology to meet new standards. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify new service opportunities successfully, or if identified, be able to develop and bring new products and services to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, we cannot guarantee that services or 12 Table of Contents technologies developed by others will not render our current and future services non-competitive or obsolete or that our current and future services will achieve or sustain market acceptance or be able to address effectively the compatibility and interoperability issues raised by technological changes or new industry standards. If we fail to anticipate the emergence of, or obtain access to a new technology or industry standard, we may incur increased costs if we seek to use those technologies and standards, or our competitors that use such technologies and standards may use them more cost-effectively than we do. The data networking and Internet access industries are highly regulated in many of the countries in which we currently operate or plan to provide services, which could restrict our ability to conduct business in the United States and internationally. We are subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we provide services. Local laws and regulations, and their interpretation and enforcement, differ significantly among those jurisdictions. Future regulatory, judicial and legislative changes may have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver services within various jurisdictions. For example, the European Union enacted a data retention scheme that, once implemented by individual member states, will involve requirements to retain certain IP data that could have an impact on our operations in Europe. Moreover, national regulatory frameworks that are consistent with the policies and requirements of the World Trade Organization have only recently been, or are still being, put in place in many countries. Accordingly, many countries are still in the early stages of providing for and adapting to a liberalized telecommunications market. As a result, in these markets we may encounter more protracted and difficult procedures to obtain licenses. Within the United States, the U.S. government continues to evaluate the data networking and Internet access industries. The Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, has a number of on-going proceedings that could impact our ability to provide services. Such regulations and policies may complicate our efforts to provide services in the future. Our operations are dependent on licenses and authorizations from governmental authorities in most of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate or plan to operate and, with respect to a limited number of our services, in the United States. These licenses and authorizations generally will contain clauses pursuant to which we may be fined or our license may be revoked on short notice. Consequently, we may not be able to obtain or retain the licenses necessary for our operations. Our financial results will be negatively impacted if the demand for data center space does not continue to increase as more data centers are built. Recently, the demand for data center space has risen significantly causing the prices that we can charge our customers for our data center space to increase. Due to the increased demand, new data centers have been built in the markets in which we compete. If the demand for data center space in these markets does not continue to increase as these new data centers are built, there will be excess capacity in the marketplace which could lead to lower prices for our services and have a negative impact on our financial results. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We are controlled by parties whose interests may not be aligned with yours. Investment partnerships sponsored by Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe, or WCAS, owned approximately 50.7% of our outstanding voting stock, and hold approximately $169.9 million of our Series A Subordinated Notes as of December 31, 2006. In addition, the Series A Subordinated Notes contain provisions relating to a change of control of our company. These factors, among others, could result in decisions concerning our operations or financial structure that may present conflicts of interest between WCAS and its affiliates and our other common stockholders. Sales of a significant amount of our common stock in the public market could reduce our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. We have approximately 52.2 million shares of common stock outstanding as of February 22, 2007. As of February 22, 2007, the holders of 24.1 million shares of our common stock are also entitled to certain registration rights. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales will occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Those sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity and equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we consider appropriate. Our stock price is subject to significant volatility. Since January 2006 until the present, the closing price per share of our common stock has ranged from a high of $48.53 per share to a low of $10.05 per share. Our stock price has been and may continue to be subject to significant volatility due to sales of our securities by significant stockholders and the other risks and uncertainties described or incorporated by reference herein. The price of our common stock may also fluctuate due to conditions in the technology industry or in the financial markets generally. 13 Table of Contents Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law contain provisions which may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, including provisions that give the Board of Directors the power to issue shares of preferred stock. We have also chosen to be subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to certain exceptions, prevents a stockholder of more than 15% of a company’s voting stock from entering into business combinations set forth under Section 203 with that company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. As of the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K, there were no unresolved comments from the Staff of the SEC. 