Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties. Lionbridge’s actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including, without limitation, those set forth in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating Lionbridge and its business. A large portion of Lionbridge’s revenue is derived from a relatively small number of large clients and the delay or reduction of its clients’ product releases and production schedules or the loss of, or reduction in revenue from, a major client could negatively affect Lionbridge’s revenue and results of operations. Lionbridge derives a significant portion of its revenues from large projects and programs for a limited number of large clients. In addition, a significant portion of Lionbridge’s revenue is linked to the product release cycles and production schedules of its clients, and, in particular, to certain key clients. As a result, Lionbridge performs varying amounts of work for specific clients from year-to-year based on their product release cycles and production schedules. A major client in one year may not have use for a similar level of Lionbridge’s services in another year. Although we generally enter into long-term contracts with our clients, the volume of work we perform for specific 10 Table of Contents clients may vary from year-to-year or quarter-to-quarter. Our contracts may allow our clients to terminate the contract early. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain these major clients or that, if we were to lose one or more of our major clients, we would be able to replace such clients with clients that generate a comparable amount of revenues. A number of factors could cause us to lose business or revenue from a client, and some of these factors are not predictable and are beyond our control. For example, a client may demand price reductions, change its procurement strategy, move work in-house or reduce previously forecasted demand. In most cases, if a client terminates its contract with us or does not meet its forecasted demand, we have no contractual recourse even if we have hired and trained service professionals to provide services to the client. Consequently, the loss of one or more of our major clients, or the inability to generate anticipated revenues from them, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While our strategy of focusing on serving large enterprises is intended to enable us to increase our revenues from large corporate customers, this strategy also exposes us to increased risks arising from the possible loss of major customer accounts. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, Lionbridge’s largest client accounted for 22%, 17% and 17% of its total revenue, respectively, and its ten largest clients accounted for 57%, 55% and 56% of its total revenue, respectively. As a result, the loss of any major client or division of a major client from which we generate significant revenues or a significant reduction in a large project’s scope could materially reduce Lionbridge’s revenue and cash flow, and adversely affect its ability to maintain profitability. Fluctuations in the mix of customer demand for the Company’s various types of solution offerings could impact Lionbridge’s financial performance and impact Lionbridge’s ability to forecast performance. Due to fluctuations in customer needs, changes in customer industries, and general economic conditions, customer demand for the range of the Company’s offerings varies from time to time and is not predictable. In relation to the Company’s GLC segment, customer localization requirements for high quality translation services may be affected by the mix of graphics and words in a particular language or the format through which it desires to communicate the content, thereby reducing the amount of content suitable for high quality, professional human-based translation. In addition, Lionbridge gross margins vary by customer and by segment and the mix of services provided to its customers could have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations as certain of Lionbridge’s customers and segments have different gross margin profiles. Generally, the profitability of an account increases over time. As a result, the mix of solutions provided by Lionbridge to its customers varies at any given time, both within a quarter and from quarter-to-quarter. These variations in service mix impact gross margins and the predictability of gross margins for any period. Therefore, Lionbridge believes that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of its results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. You should not rely on the results of any one quarter as an indication of Lionbridge’s future performance. Lionbridge may not experience profitability or margin increases in future years comparable to those experienced in some prior years. Procurement strategies and vendor consolidation as well as unfavorable conditions in the United States and global economies may adversely affect demand for Lionbridge’s services, which would in turn, adversely affect future revenues and operating results. Many of Lionbridge’s clients are seeking to consolidate their current service providers. In some cases, the range and breadth of our service offerings is not as broad as its customers demand. Lionbridge’s ability to sustain growth and our profitability in the current environment is dependent upon its ability to maintain and/or gain a greater share of the business within its clients, and to attract new clients. There can be no assurance that Lionbridge will be able to do so in the future. More generally, future unfavorable changes in global economic and political conditions, including economic and monetary instability in Europe, inflation, fluctuating energy costs, geopolitical issues, and unrest may contribute to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy and global economic 11 Table of Contents growth going forward. Instability in global economic conditions could negatively impact business and customer spending patterns. More specifically, Lionbridge’s customers or potential customers may cancel, reduce or delay their purchases of our solutions or payment for such solutions, which would adversely impact our revenues, collections of customer receivables and ultimately our profitability. The Company cannot predict global economic conditions or when and to what extent these conditions may affect our customers. The Company cannot ensure that its business financial condition or results of operations will not be adversely impacted by any negative economic conditions. We may be unable to successfully execute on any of our identified business strategic opportunities or other business or strategic opportunities that we determine to pursue. In order to pursue business and strategic opportunities, we will need to continue to build our infrastructure, our service and technology offerings and our operational capabilities. Our ability to do any of these successfully could be affected by one or more of the following factors: — our ability to recruit resources with specific language, technical and subject matter skills on a global basis; — the ability of our technology to perform as we expect; — our ability to execute our strategy and continue to operate a large, more diverse business efficiently on a global basis; — ability to effectively manage our third party relationships; — our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; — our ability to effectively manage our global employee and supplier costs and other expenses, particularly outside of the United States; — our ability to expand the range of solutions offered to our customers; — technology and application failures and outages, interruption of service, security breaches or fraud which could adversely affect our reputation and our relations with our clients; — our ability to accurately predict and respond to the rapid technological changes in our industry and the evolving technology, service and pricing demands of the markets we serve; and — our ability to raise additional capital to fund our growth. Our failure to adequately address the above factors would have a significant impact on our ability to implement our business plan and our ability to pursue other opportunities that arise, which might negatively affect our business. Potential fluctuations in Lionbridge’s quarterly results make financial forecasting difficult and could affect its common stock trading price. As a result of fluctuations in Lionbridge’s revenues tied to foreign currency fluctuations, its clients’ activities and release cycles, customer and vendor pricing pressures, the three-to nine-month length of its typical sales cycle, historical growth, acquisition activity, the emerging nature of the markets in which it competes, global economic conditions and other factors outside its control, Lionbridge believes that financial forecasting is difficult and quarter-to-quarter comparisons of its results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. You should not rely on the results of any one quarter as an indication of Lionbridge’s future performance. Lionbridge may not experience revenue increases in future years comparable to the revenue increases in some prior years. There have been quarters in the past in which Lionbridge’s results of operations have fallen below the expectations of securities analysts and investors and this may occur in the future. If in a future quarter Lionbridge’s results of operations were to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of its common stock would likely decline. 12 Table of Contents Defects or disruptions in Lionbridge’s web-based tool and service offerings (including interruptions in service due to third parties) could diminish demand for those offerings and subject the Company to liability. Software-as-a-Service (“Saas”) offerings may contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Since Lionbridge’s customers use our web-based services for important aspects of their business, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with the Company’s service could hurt its reputation and may damage Lionbridge’s customers’ businesses. If that occurs, customers could elect not to renew, or delay or withhold payment to Lionbridge, the Company could lose future subscribers or customers may make warranty claims against Lionbridge, which could result in an increase in the Company’s provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation. Lionbridge currently serves its customers from third-party data center hosting facilities located on the east coast of the United States. Any damage to, or failure of, these facilities could result in interruptions in its service. As Lionbridge continues to add capacity to its data centers, it may move or transfer data. Despite precautions taken during this process, any unsuccessful data transfers may impair the delivery of Lionbridge’s service. Further, any damage to, or failure of, Lionbridge’s systems generally could result in interruptions in its service. Interruptions in Lionbridge’s service may reduce its revenue, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect the Company’s renewal rates and its ability to attract new customers. Lionbridge’s business will also be harmed if its customers and potential customers believe the Company’s service is unreliable. Evolving regulation of the Internet may affect Lionbridge adversely. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies may occur. For example, the Company believes increased regulation may occur in the area of data privacy and in status of employment. In addition, taxation of services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based services, which could harm Lionbridge’s web-based tools and services business as well as reduce demand for its services by customers that provide Internet-based services. Demand for subscription fee-based translation tools such as Lionbridge’s and demand for the Company’s high quality translation services could decline if effective tools and solutions become available for free. Presently there are a number of free translation tools offering limited access to machine translation and translation management applications. If these free offerings become more sophisticated or comprehensive, and become better able to produce more accurate translations and production efficiencies, demand for Lionbridge’s solutions and products, particularly its real-time machine translation offering known as GeoFluent, may decline. Our infrastructure is dependent on third party technologies that may be difficult to deploy, integrate, or replace or which could cause errors or failures of our service. We rely on computer hardware purchased or leased and software licensed from third parties as the basis for operational and internal operations and are dependent on these systems in order to conduct our internal business operations and to offer our services to our customers. Integrating, maintaining and upgrading this infrastructure is expensive and complex. Delays in implementation, inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of critical internal or customer data, could diminish the quality and/or timeliness of our services to customers and the information we utilize to make internal business and financial decisions. We have recently deployed an SAP-based system for timekeeping and human resources functionality which we expect will result in process efficiencies, higher quality data and generate cost savings; however, unanticipated failures or defects in the system may affect the data we utilize to measure our business productivity, pay our resources and provide services to our customers. Any such failure or defect may materially adversely affect our business and financial 13 Table of Contents performance. Moreover, third party technologies may not continue to be available at reasonable prices or on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any of this hardware or software could significantly increase our expenses and otherwise result in delays in providing services to our customers, managing our resources, and performing essential business operations, until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained through purchase or license and integrated. In addition, any errors or defects in third-party hardware or software could result in errors or a failure of our service which could harm our business. As a result, we may experience contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, damage to our reputation and governmental investigations, each of which may harm our operating results and financial condition. Lionbridge’s expansion into web-based product and services offerings may not succeed and may harm its financial results and reputation. Lionbridge offers its web-based language technologies on a subscription, or SaaS, service offering. The Company’s current SaaS products include Translation Workspace™ and GeoFluent ™. These SaaS-based offerings are available to translators and enterprises on a subscription basis, independent of otherwise engaging Lionbridge as the translation services provider. Lionbridge is providing Translation Workspace on a subscription basis to individual translators and agencies for their use with their customers, as well as to enterprises. Lionbridge has also offered GeoFluent to corporations and enterprises engaged in real-time, web-based communications. Lionbridge also allows customers to procure a range of its services through a web-based platform on self-service basis through its On-Demand service offerings. Lionbridge will continue to devote capital, personnel and management attention to developing these new services and offerings. These services and offerings will present technological, marketing and management challenges that differ from the challenges the Company faces in its existing localization business. The success of this expansion and Lionbridge’s future growth and profitability in connection with this initiative will depend in large part on its ability to attract and retain customers and subscribers and to constantly improve the tools and solutions offered and adapt them to changing customer needs. Lionbridge cannot assure you that these web-based solutions and strategies will be successful or that they will be profitable, or if they are profitable, that they will provide an adequate return on capital expended. If Lionbridge is not successful in marketing, selling, developing and deploying these new solutions, its financial results and reputation may be harmed. In addition, the market for SaaS-based translation solutions is emerging and it is uncertain whether SaaS-based services will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. Lionbridge’s successful expansion into new SaaS-based product offerings will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of translators and enterprises, large and small, to subscribe to SaaS-based tools and services for translation requirements. Some potential users may be reluctant or unwilling to use SaaS-based services because they have concerns regarding the risk associated with security capabilities, among other things, of the technology delivery model associated with these services. If they do not perceive the benefits of subscribing to SaaS-based tools and services, then the market for these services may not develop at all, or it may develop more slowly than the Company expects, either of which may adversely affect Lionbridge’s financial results. A failure by Lionbridge to comply with the covenants under its revolving credit facility could trigger a default under that facility if not cured. Lionbridge’s failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants under its revolving credit agreement could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the Company being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. There is no guarantee that the Company would be able to refinance these borrowings and the failure to refinance would have an adverse effect on the Company’s cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. If the Company is forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms, its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by increased costs, rates and terms. 14 Table of Contents Lionbridge’s results of operations could be negatively affected by potential fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Lionbridge conducts a large portion of its business in international markets. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, 32% and 35% of Lionbridge’s revenue was denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, 61% and 62% of its costs and expenses for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies. Therefore, the Company is exposed to the risk of an increase in the value of the foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar, which would increase the value of those expenses when measured in U.S. Dollars. Lionbridge’s foreign subsidiaries have assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the relevant entity’s functional currency. Changes in the functional currency value of certain assets and liabilities create fluctuations that may result in translation gains or losses. Management selectively engages in foreign exchange hedging transactions (typically, forward contracts) designed to minimize its exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Management regularly reviews the hedging program and will make adjustments as necessary, including suspending or accelerating hedging activities based on its judgment of the efficacy of such programs under anticipated market and economic conditions. However, there can be no assurance that our foreign currency management strategy will adequately protect our financial condition or results of operation from the effects of future exchange rate fluctuations. Lionbridge may not realize the anticipated benefits of current or future cost reduction initiatives. Lionbridge has initiated cost reduction actions to improve its operating cost structure, reduce overhead and better position itself competitively. These cost reduction initiatives include measures designed to better align operating expenses with expected revenue levels, resource reallocations, headcount reductions and technology deployments. The timing and implementation of cost reduction initiatives is dependent upon a number of factors, including customer needs and transition requirements, local statutory and regulatory requirements, and economic conditions. Future cost reduction initiatives could result in current period charges and expenses that could impact Lionbridge’s operating results. The anticipated benefits of these cost reduction actions may be negatively impacted by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Lionbridge cannot guarantee that these measures, or other expense reduction measures we take in the future, will result in the expected cost savings. Lionbridge may engage in restructuring actions and incur restructuring charges for actions undertaken in any particular quarter. In connection with determining the size and scope of any such restructuring charge, management will be required to make significant estimates related to expenses for severance and other employee separation costs, lease cancellation and other exit costs, and estimates of future rental income that may be generated through the subleasing of excess leased property. Should the actual amounts differ from our estimates, the amount of the restructuring charges could be materially impacted. Lionbridge may be exposed to employment-related claims and costs that could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Lionbridge engages resources in multiple countries worldwide and from time-to-time places them in workplaces of its customers. It is also involved in human capital management solutions that involve the recruitment and payment of individuals on a global basis. Lionbridge also may engage in redundancy or other reduction in force actions in light of any decline in demand for its services due to global economic conditions. Risks related to these activities include: — Claims arising out of the actions or inactions of our personnel; — Claims of discrimination or harassment; — Classification of employees as independent contractors and payment of workers’ compensation claims and other similar claims, including matters for which we may have indemnified a customer; — Violations of wage and hour requirements; — Retroactive entitlement to employment benefits; 15 Table of Contents — Errors and omissions by our personnel; and — Claims by our customers relating to our personnel misusing customer proprietary information, or other similar claims. Lionbridge may incur fines and other losses or negative publicity with respect to these problems. In addition, some or all of these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming to its management team and costly and have a negative impact on its business. Lionbridge cannot assure you that it will not experience these problems in the future. Lionbridge cannot assure you that its insurance will be sufficient in amount or scope to cover all claims that maybe asserted against the Company. Should the ultimate judgments and settlements exceed its insurance coverage, it could have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Lionbridge cannot assure you that it will be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future. If Lionbridge fails to hire and retain professional staff, its ability to obtain and complete its projects could suffer. Lionbridge’s potential failure to hire and retain qualified employees could impair its ability to complete existing projects and bid for or obtain new projects and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on its business and revenue. Lionbridge’s ability to grow and increase its market share largely depends on its ability to hire, train, retain and manage highly skilled employees, including project managers and technical, sales and marketing personnel. In addition, Lionbridge must ensure that its employees maintain their technical expertise and business skills. Lionbridge cannot assure you that it will be able to attract a sufficient number of qualified employees or that it will successfully train and manage the employees it hires to allow Lionbridge to carry out its operating plan. Lionbridge’s financial performance may be impacted by its ability to transition service execution to its lower cost operational sites, the timing of such transition, and customer acceptance of such transition. Lionbridge’s business strategy includes the transition of service execution to its global delivery centers located in India, China, Poland and Slovakia. The rate at which such services may be transitioned and the timing of any transition is difficult to predict and is dependent on customer demand for such services and customer acceptance of such any such transition. Accordingly, changes in the location of service execution may not produce the anticipated financial benefit and the Company may not realize the anticipated benefits of service execution in its Global Delivery Centers to the extent anticipated, or as rapidly as anticipated, all of which could adversely affect Lionbridge’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Lionbridge may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions and integration of these acquisitions may interrupt the Company’s business and management. Lionbridge has made strategic acquisitions in 2012 and 2013. The Company may make acquisitions in the future as part of its long-term business strategy. Lionbridge may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, or Lionbridge may not realize the anticipated benefits as quickly as originally anticipated. In particular, the process of integrating acquired companies into the Company’s existing business may result in unforeseen difficulties and delays. These risks include: — difficulty in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; — difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration; — difficulty in integrating the acquired company’s accounting, financial reporting systems, human resources and other administrative systems; and — delays or difficulty to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses on the original timetable; and — unforeseen and significant problems or liabilities associated with quality, technology and legal matters related to an acquisition. 16 Table of Contents Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky and if Lionbridge does not fully complete the integration of acquired businesses successfully and in a timely manner, the Company may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions to the extent anticipated, or as rapidly as anticipated, which could adversely affect Lionbridge’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Pursuing and completing potential acquisitions, business combinations or other strategic transactions could disrupt our business and divert management attention and financial resources and may not produce the desired business results. Lionbridge may pursue and make selected acquisitions of complementary businesses, or may explore an acquisition of us or a particular line of our business by a third party. Lionbridge does not have specific personnel dedicated solely to pursuing and making acquisitions or strategic transactions. As a result, if Lionbridge pursues any such transaction, its management, in addition to their operational responsibilities, could spend a significant amount of time and management and financial resources to pursue and structure a transaction. To fund the purchase price of an acquisition, Lionbridge might use capital stock, cash or a combination of both. Alternatively, Lionbridge may borrow money from a bank or other lender. If it uses capital stock, Lionbridge’s stockholders will experience dilution. If it uses cash or debt financing, Lionbridge’s financial liquidity may be reduced. In addition, from an accounting perspective, an acquisition may involve amortization of significant amounts of other intangible assets that could adversely affect Lionbridge’s ability to maintain profitability. Despite the investment of these management and financial resources, a strategic transaction may not produce the desired business results or expected benefits, including without limitation, the revenue, earnings or business synergies that Lionbridge anticipated or may produce such synergies less rapidly than anticipated for a variety of reasons, including: — difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, operational systems deployments, technologies, services, products and personnel of an acquired company; — failure of acquired technologies and services to perform as expected; — risks of entering markets in which Lionbridge has no, or limited, prior experience; — misjudgment with respect to value; — exposure to litigation from the counterparties to any such transaction, other third parties or our shareholders; — higher than expected transaction costs; — an inability to successfully consummate any such transaction; — effects of any undisclosed or potential legal or tax liabilities of the an company; — compliance with additional laws, rules or regulations that Lionbridge may become subject to as a result of an acquisition that might restrict Lionbridge’s ability to operate; and — the loss of key employees of an acquired company. Lionbridge may not be able to successfully address these problems or avoid these risks. Lionbridge’s future operating results may depend to a significant degree on Lionbridge’s ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and manage operations while controlling expenses and cash outflows. We may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of any such transaction or deliver the value thereof to our shareholders. Difficulties presented by international economic, political, legal, health, accounting and business factors could negatively affect Lionbridge’s business in international markets. Lionbridge conducts business and has operations and clients throughout the world. As a result, Lionbridge’s business is subject to political unrest and economic fluctuations in various countries and to more cost-intensive social insurance and employment laws and regulations, particularly in Europe. In addition, as Lionbridge continues to employ and retain personnel throughout the world and to comply with various employment laws, it 17 Table of Contents may face difficulties in integrating such personnel on a cost-efficient basis. In the U.S. and certain other countries, new employment and labor laws and regulations have been proposed or adopted that may increase the potential exposure of employers to employment-related claims and litigation. There can be no assurance that the corporate policies Lionbridge has in place to help reduce its exposure to these risks will be effective or that the Company will not experience losses as a result of these risks. Lionbridge may face difficulties and expense in reducing its workforce in certain high cost countries and regions, including Europe. If Lionbridge seeks to expand its operations, it may become more difficult to manage its international business. In addition, Lionbridge’s ability to engage individual interpreters, translators, internet raters and other cloud workers as contractors rather than employees may be impacted by changes in employment laws, regulations and interpretations in certain jurisdictions, which may expose Lionbridge to additional costs and expenses. In addition, compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to Lionbridge’s international operations increases the Company’s cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could expose the Company to fines or penalties. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include import and export requirements, trade restrictions, tax laws, sanctions, data privacy requirements, labor laws, U.S. laws and regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the regulations of the Office of Foreign Asset Controls (“OFAC”), and local laws. Violations of these law and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions, prohibitions on the conduct of Lionbridge’s business and damage to the Company’s reputation. Although Lionbridge has implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, the Company cannot guarantee compliance. Any such violations could materially damage the Company’s reputation, its ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Lionbridge’s and its clients’ abilities to conduct business may also be affected by wars, political unrest, terrorism, natural disasters or the impact of diseases such as avian influenza. Furthermore, as a result of operating in international markets, Lionbridge is subject to longer payment cycles from many of its customers and may experience greater difficulties in timely accounts receivable collections. If Lionbridge fails to manage these operations successfully, its ability to service its clients and grow its business will be seriously impeded. Goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets represent a portion of Lionbridge’s assets; any impairment of Lionbridge’s goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets will adversely impact its net income. At December 31, 2013, Lionbridge had goodwill, intangible assets, and other long-lived assets of approximately $53.8 million, net of accumulated amortization, which represented approximately 26.8% of its total assets. Lionbridge’s goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis. Goodwill, intangible assets, and other long-lived assets are also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that they may be impaired. Such events or conditions could include an economic downturn in the industries to which Lionbridge provides services, increased competition, an increase in operating or other costs, additional volatility in international currencies, the pace of technological improvements, or other information regarding Lionbridge’s market value, such as a reduction in stock price to a price near or below the book value of the Company for an extended period of time. Any excess goodwill resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. In 2012, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $4.0 million related to certain software license and capitalized development costs related to the automated machine translation technology licensed from IBM Corporation and $0.2 million related to the decision to offer for sale certain real property of the Company located in Wuppertal, Germany. Lionbridge recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $120.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2008. Although the Company does not believe that an impairment of Lionbridge’s remaining goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets exists at this time, in the event that such a condition or event occurs, we may record additional charges which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If Lionbridge does not respond to future advances in technology and changes in customer demands, its business and results of operations may be adversely affected. The demand for Lionbridge’s services may be substantially affected, in large part, by future advances in technology and changes in customer demands. Lionbridge’s success will depend on its ability to address the 18 Table of Contents increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of its existing and prospective clients. Lionbridge cannot assure you that there will be a demand for its services in the future. Lionbridge’s success in servicing its clients will be largely dependent on its development of strategic business solutions and methodologies in response to technological advances and client preferences. For example, Lionbridge’s services are based on a hosted internet-based language technology platform, core components of which include Lionbridge’s Translation Workspace technology. Lionbridge’s business may be harmed by defects or errors in the services it provides to its clients. Many of the services Lionbridge provides are critical to its clients’ businesses. While Lionbridge maintains general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, defects or errors in the services it provides could interrupt its clients’ abilities to provide services to their end users resulting in delayed or lost client revenue. This could damage Lionbridge’s reputation through negative publicity, make it difficult to attract new, and retain existing customers and cause customers to terminate their contracts and seek damages. Lionbridge may incur additional costs to correct errors or defects. Lionbridge cannot assure you that its general liability and errors and omissions insurance coverage will be available in amounts sufficient to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claims. Improper disclosure of employee and customer data could result in liability and harm Lionbridge’s reputation. From time to time, Lionbridge’s services involve the use, storage and transmission of confidential and/or personal data, including information of its employees and resources and sensitive customer information. We are dependent on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store this sensitive information. Security breaches of this infrastructure could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems and potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. We are also required at times to manage, utilize, record and store sensitive or confidential data. As a result, we are subject to laws and regulations designed to protect this information. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution. Unauthorized disclosure or recording of sensitive or confidential employee, client or customer data, whether through system failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients and employees. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems, whether by our employees or third parties, could result in negative publicity, legal liability and damage to our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. Lionbridge’s failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to its reputation in the marketplace. Lionbridge’s service delivery system is dependent on global electronic communications. System failures could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause Lionbridge to lose clients and subscribers and delay scheduled deliveries to customers. Lionbridge’s translation service offerings in particular are dependent on its ability to communicate to its global network of operational sites and translation experts, primarily through web-based communications technologies. As a result, Lionbridge is dependent upon its ability to protect computer and telecommunications equipment and systems against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications interruption or failure, natural disaster and other similar events. If Lionbridge experiences a temporary or permanent interruption affecting its access to our proprietary solutions, communications with global resources, or preventing its customers from accessing tools or solutions to which they have subscribed, Lionbridge’s business could be materially adversely affected. While Lionbridge maintains property and business interruption insurance, such insurance may not adequately compensate the Company for all losses that it may incur. 19 Table of Contents Although Lionbridge maintains general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, there can be no assurance that its existing coverage will continue to be available on reasonable terms or will be available in amounts sufficient to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. The occurrence of errors could result in a loss of data to Lionbridge or its clients, which could cause a loss of revenues, failure to achieve product acceptance, increased insurance costs, legal claims, against Lionbridge, delays in payment to Lionbridge by clients, increased service and warranty expenses or financial concessions, diversion of resources, injury to the Company’s reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Lionbridge’s market share and, in turn, its business, results of operations and financial condition. If Lionbridge’s security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer’s data or Lionbridge’s data, the Company’s services may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using Lionbridge’s service and the Company may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. In all lines of our business, Lionbridge is involved in the storing and transmission of certain customer proprietary information. Accordingly, security breaches could expose Lionbridge to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. If Lionbridge’s security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to Lionbridge’s data or its customers’ data, Lionbridge’s reputation could be damaged, the Company’s business may suffer and the Company could incur significant liability. Additionally, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to Lionbridge’s data or its customers’ data, which could result in significant legal and financial exposure and a loss of confidence in the security of the Company’s service that would harm its future business prospects. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change Lionbridge may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of Lionbridge’s security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of the Company’s security measures could be harmed and Lionbridge could lose sales and customers. Lionbridge competes in highly competitive markets. The markets for Lionbridge’s services are very competitive. Lionbridge cannot assure you that it will compete successfully against its competitors in the future. If Lionbridge fails to be competitive with other companies in the future, it may lose market share and its revenue could decline. There are relatively few barriers preventing companies from competing with Lionbridge. Although Lionbridge owns proprietary technology, Lionbridge does not own any patented or other technology that, by itself, precludes or inhibits others from entering its market. As a result, new market entrants also pose a threat to Lionbridge’s business. In addition to Lionbridge’s existing competitors, Lionbridge may face further competition in the future from companies that do not currently offer globalization or testing services. Lionbridge may also face competition from internal globalization and testing departments of its current and potential clients. Technology companies, information technology services companies, business process outsourcing companies, web consulting firms, technical support call centers, hosting companies and content management providers may choose to broaden their range of services to include globalization or testing as they expand their operations internationally. Lionbridge cannot assure you that it will be able to compete effectively with potential future competitors. Lionbridge will continue to depend on intellectual property rights to protect its proprietary technologies, although it may not be able to successfully protect these rights. Lionbridge relies on its proprietary technology to enhance some of its service offerings. Lionbridge’s policy is to enter into confidentiality agreements with its employees, outside consultants and independent contractors. 20 Table of Contents Lionbridge also uses patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law in addition to contractual restrictions to protect its technology. Notwithstanding these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to obtain and use Lionbridge’s proprietary technology without authorization. Although Lionbridge holds registered or pending United States patents and foreign patents covering certain aspects of its technology, it cannot be sure of the level of protection that these patents will provide. Lionbridge may have to resort to litigation to enforce its intellectual property rights, to protect trade secrets or know-how, or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. Enforcing or defending its proprietary technology is expensive, could cause diversion of Lionbridge’s resources and may not prove successful. The laws of other countries may afford Lionbridge little or no effective protection of its intellectual property rights. The intellectual property of Lionbridge’s customers may be damaged, misappropriated, stolen or lost while in Lionbridge’s possession, subjecting it to litigation and other adverse consequences. In the course of providing globalization and testing services to Lionbridge’s customers, Lionbridge takes possession of or is granted access to certain intellectual property of such customers, including unreleased versions of software and source code. In the event such intellectual property is damaged, misappropriated, stolen or lost, Lionbridge could suffer: — claims under indemnification provisions in customer agreements or other liability for damages; — delayed or lost revenue due to adverse customer reaction; — negative publicity; and — litigation that could be costly and time consuming. Lionbridge has an accumulated deficit and may not be able to continue to achieve operating profit. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009, Lionbridge achieved an operating profit of $15.4 million, $10.2 million, $5.6 million and $3.0 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2008, Lionbridge incurred an operating loss of $114.2 million, which included a $120.6 million goodwill impairment charge. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Lionbridge achieved operating profits of $9.0 million, $15.0 million, and $1.3 million, respectively. However, prior to 2005, Lionbridge incurred substantial losses and may incur losses in the future. Lionbridge has an accumulated deficit of $212.0 million as of December 31, 2013. Lionbridge intends to continue to invest in internal expansion, infrastructure, select acquisitions and its sales and marketing efforts. Lionbridge cannot assure you that it will continue to achieve operating profits in the future or will generate net income in the future. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect Lionbridge’s effective tax rates. Lionbridge is subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining Lionbridge’s worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Lionbridge is subject to the continual examination by tax authorities in certain jurisdictions, most notably in India, and the Company regularly assesses the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. Although Lionbridge believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than what is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals, and could result in a material effect on the Company’s income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. If additional taxes are assessed, this could adversely impact Lionbridge’s financial results. The Indian taxing authorities issued assessment orders for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007, March 31, 2008, March 31, 2009, and March 31, 2010 of our Indian subsidiary, Lionbridge Technologies Private Ltd. (“Lionbridge India”). At issue in these assessments were several matters, the most significant of which was the 21 Table of Contents redetermination of the arm’s-length profit related to intercompany transactions (“Transfer Pricing”). We are currently contesting all years under exam, and note that they are all at various stages of the appeals process. If we do not prevail in our appeals, we may incur an additional tax liability along with related interest and penalties. Lionbridge’s future effective tax rate could be affected by the following factors: changes in tax laws, new interpretations of existing tax laws, changes in the amount and mix of income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which Lionbridge operates, or by changes in the Company’s assessment of its need for a valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets. In general, Lionbridge’s cash and net assets held outside of the United States are not legally restricted from being transferred to the United States in order to assist Lionbridge Technologies, Inc. (i.e. US Parent Company) with debt repayment, domestic capital expenditures, and other working capital requirements. In the event that a transfer did occur, such funds would be subject to applicable local withholding taxes and U.S. taxes in certain circumstances which would adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The majority of Lionbridge’s deferred tax assets currently have a valuation allowance recorded against them, based on management’s review of both the positive and negative evidence and their determination that it is more-likely-than-not that all or a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The most sizable deferred tax asset is recorded in the United States with a valuation allowance recorded against it. Changes in the Company’s assessment of its need for a valuation allowance could have a substantial effect on its effective tax rate. Changes in accounting policies may affect Lionbridge’s reported earnings and operating income. Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations for many aspects of our business, including revenue recognition are highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules, their interpretation, or their application relative to changes in the Company’s services or business could significantly change Lionbridge’s reported earnings and could add significant volatility to these measures, without a comparable underlying change in cash flow from operations. Lionbridge’s application of applicable accounting guidance involves interpretation and judgment, and may, as a result, delay the timing of revenue recognition or accelerate the costs associated with deferred revenue. If future results are different than anticipated, there may be adjustments to stock—based compensation expense. Lionbridge uses stock-based compensation as one of its central incentive and retention components for its key employees. A portion of stock-based compensation expense relates to long-term performance-based stock incentive awards, which will vest only if future revenue and/or profitability levels are met. If these revenue and/or profitability levels are not fully met, all or some portion of the equity will be forfeited, and previously recorded stock-based compensation expense will be adjusted which if material, could affect future earnings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 22 Table of Contents 