Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits Financial Statement Schedules Signatures PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Who We Are and What We Do: General Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. ("Chipotle" or the "Company") develops and operates fast casual, fresh Mexican food restaurants in 21 states throughout the United States and in the District of Columbia. As of December 31, 2005, we operated 481 restaurants and had eight restaurants operated by franchisees. We completed our initial public offering of Class A common stock in January 2006. McDonald's Corporation ("McDonald's") is our majority owner (with beneficial ownership of approximately 87% of the combined voting power of our outstanding stock and 65% of our economic interest after the initial public offering). We manage our operations based on four regions and have aggregated our operations into one reportable segment. Financial information regarding our operations, assets and liabilities, including our revenues and net income (loss) for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and our total assets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, is included in our consolidated financial statements and respective notes in Item 8 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data". We became a subsidiary of McDonald's in September 1999 when McDonald's acquired a controlling stake in us at the same time that our predecessor, World Foods, Inc., a Colorado corporation formed in 1996, merged with Chipotle. Chipotle, a corporation formed under the laws of the State of Delaware on January 30, 1998, was the surviving entity in the merger. The Chipotle philosophy is simple: demonstrate that food served fast doesn't have to be a "fast-food" experience. We try to avoid using a formulaic approach when creating our experience and looked to fine-dining restaurants for inspiration. We use high-quality raw ingredients, classic cooking methods and a distinctive interior design, and have friendly people to take care of each customer—features that are more frequently found in the world of fine dining. We compete in a category of dining now called "fast-casual," the fastest growing segment of the restaurant industry, where customers expect food quality that's more in line with full-service restaurants, coupled with the speed and convenience of fast food. We do just a few things but try to do them really well, and we plan to keep this intentionally focused strategy as we grow. We elevate basic raw ingredients into food that's more sophisticated with layers of flavor through our recipes and cooking techniques. Our store design also transforms simple materials in distinctive ways, giving our stores an architectural style that is not commonly found in typical fast-food restarurants. We respect our employees and invite them to share their ideas on how to best serve our customers, which we think inspires them to take pride in their work and increases their dedication to our customers and our company. From our focused menu to the uncomplicated flow of our stores, our simple but thorough management and operations practices, and a comparatively small inventory, we emphasize keeping things simple so we can focus on serving great food. "Hours To Prepare, Seconds to Serve": Menu and Food Preparation A Few Things, Thousands of Ways. We serve only a few things: burritos, burrito bols (a burrito without the tortilla), tacos and salads. But because customers can choose from four different meats, two types of beans and a variety of extras such as salsas, guacamole, cheese and lettuce, there's enough variety to extend our menu to provide more than 65,000 choices. We plan to keep a simple menu, but we'll consider additions that we think make sense. For example, we introduced the burrito bol in 2003 and, in 2005, we rolled out a salad that uses the same ingredients as our burritos and tacos, with the addition of chipotle-honey vinaigrette that we make in-store daily. In preparing our food, we use gas stoves and grills, pots and pans, wire whisks and other kitchen utensils, walk-in refrigerators stocked with a variety of fresh ingredients, herbs and spices and dry goods such as rice. Ingredients we use include marinated chicken, carnitas (seasoned pork), barbacoa (spicy 1 shredded beef), marinated steak and pinto and vegetarian black beans. We add our rice, which is flavored with cilantro and lime, as well as freshly shredded cheese, sour cream, lettuce, tomatoes, peppers and onions, depending on each customer's specifications. We use various herbs, spices and seasonings to prepare our meats and vegetables. We also provide a variety of extras such as guacamole and salsas. To complement our main menu items, we also serve tortilla chips seasoned with lime and salt. In addition to sodas and other soft drinks, most of our stores also offer a selection of beer and margaritas. We prepare most items from scratch in our stores, and we've developed a start-to-finish process of food preparation that drives our food ordering process. In all of our stores, we make our guacamole, tomato and corn salsa daily, using what we believe are the best available ingredients, including Hass avocados, herbs, spices and real citrus juice. Food Served Fast So That Customers Can Enjoy It Slowly. Our employees spend hours preparing our food on-site, but each customer order can be ready in seconds. Customers select exactly what they want and how they want it by speaking directly to the employees preparing the food. While we think that our customers return because of the great-tasting food, we also think that they like getting food served fast without having a "fast-food" experience, even when they're not in a hurry. And while our stores often have lines, we try to serve customers as quickly as possible; we've even been able to serve as many as 300 customers an hour at some locations. The natural flow of our store layout, including the floor plan and the design of our serving line, are designed to make the food ordering process intuitive and thus, we believe, more efficient. And we're focused on further improving the speed of service in all of our restaurants, so that we can accommodate more customers and larger orders without disrupting store traffic. By emphasizing speed of service without compromising the genuine interactions between our customers and our crews, and by continually making improvements to our stores to keep pace at even our highest-volume stores, we believe that we can provide the Chipotle experience to more and more customers. "Food with Integrity." We focus on quality, service and the Chipotle experience. At the same time, however, we're committed to emphasizing "food with integrity," beginning with our suppliers and ending with the way we prepare food for customers. Because our menu is so focused, we can concentrate on where we obtain each ingredient, and this has become a cornerstone of our continuous effort to improve our food. All of our pork, for example, comes from pigs that are naturally raised in open pastures or deeply bedded barns, without being confined or subject to antibiotics. We also serve naturally raised chicken in about 45% of our stores and naturally raised beef in about 34% of our stores. For us, "naturally raised" means that our suppliers' pigs, chickens and cattle are raised in humane environments on vegetarian diets without the use of antibiotics. It also means that our suppliers don't use hormones, which are prohibited by federal regulations for pork and chicken, and which we explicitly prohibit for our beef. We're enthusiastically investigating the use of more sustainably grown produce, meaning produce grown by suppliers who we believe respect the environment, while still charging reasonable prices for our food. Today, about 20% of all of the beans we buy are organically grown, that is, they meet U.S. Food and Drug Administration standards for "organic." At each store, we mix those organically grown beans with other ingredients that are not organic. We even work with experts in the areas of animal ethics to try to support more humane farming environments, and we visit the farms and ranches from which we obtain our ingredients. We do, however, face challenges in pursuing this approach, including the length of time, costs and risks associated with purchasing naturally raised or sustainably grown ingredients. Naturally raised meat and sustainably grown vegetables are more costly and the growth process is longer. Herd losses can also be greater when animals aren't treated with antibiotics and hormones. Given the costs associated with natural and sustainable farming practices, many large suppliers have not found it economical to pursue business in this area. We believe that consumers' increasing concern about where and how food is raised, and in the environmental management and animal husbandry practices of food suppliers, will 2 foster demand for these foods. We believe that increased demand for naturally raised meat and produce will in turn attract the interest and capital investment of larger farms and suppliers. That said, we understand that we'll continue to be at the forefront of this trend and must balance our interest in advancing "food with integrity" with our desire to provide great food at reasonable prices. If our focus resonates with consumers, it should improve our sourcing flexibility, although we would expect that these ingredients and other raw materials will remain more expensive than commodity-priced equivalents for some time to come. Making and Selling "One Burrito At A Time": Store Management And Operations People With Passion. We value the individuality of our company, our employees and our customers, which we believe results in a management, operations and training philosophy distinct from that of our competitors. We make an effort to hire employees who share a passion for food, and who will operate our stores in a way that is consistent with our high standards but that allows each of their unique personalities and strengths to contribute to our success. We also produce training materials that are thought provoking and which engage our employees, rather than providing rote, step-by-step scripts or rigid policy manuals. Through our culture, diversity and language programs that we provide in all of our markets, we teach English to Spanish-speaking workers and Spanish to English-speakers, which helps staff to better serve customers and makes for tighter crews. This program helps encourage our staff members to develop skills that will enhance their work experience and enrich their personal lives. Importance of Methods and Culture. Although we have many stores, we believe that our departure from the automated cooking techniques used by many of our competitors sets our vision and our food apart. Our crews use classic professional cooking methods, including slicing, marinating and grilling our meats and hand-chopping many of our vegetables, in kitchens resembling those of high-end restaurants. Despite our more labor-intensive method of food preparation, we believe that we produce food with an efficiency that enables us to compete effectively. The Front Line is Key. Our store and kitchen designs intentionally place crew members "up front" with customers to reinforce our focus on service. All our store employees are encouraged to have genuine interactions with customers no matter their specific job, whether preparing food or serving customers during our busiest period. We focus on attracting and keeping people who can replicate that experience for each customer "one burrito at a time." We provide each customer with individual attention and make every effort to respond to customer suggestions and concerns in a personal and hospitable way. We believe our focus on creating a positive and interactive experience helps build loyalty and enthusiasm for our brand among store managers, crew members and customers alike. The Basics. Each store typically has a store manager, an assistant manager and an average of approximately 22 full and part-time crew members. We generally have two shifts at our stores, which helps us better predict our store payroll expenses and in return provides our employees with more stable and predictable work hours. We tend to have more employees in our busier stores. We cross-train our employees, with a view to creating depth of competency in our critical store functions. Consistent with our emphasis on customer contact, we encourage our store managers and crew members to welcome and interact with customers throughout the day. And although they may increase our labor costs, we believe that the benefits we provide to our employees, which include language training and our company car program for longer-term store managers, help us to attract and keep good store managers and crew members. In addition to the employees serving our customers at each store, we also have area managers (responsible on average for about six stores each) and operations directors (responsible on average for about 50 stores each). Our four regional directors (who report to our President and Chief Operating Officer) each supervise between one to four operations directors. 3 Where We Get Our Ingredients: Provisions and Supplies Close Relationships With Vendors. Maintaining the high-quality levels we expect in our stores depends in part on our ability to acquire fresh ingredients and other necessary supplies that meet our specifications from reliable suppliers. We purchase from various suppliers, carefully selected based on quality and their understanding of our brand, and we seek to develop mutually beneficial long-term relationships with them. We work closely with our suppliers and use a mix of forward, fixed and formula pricing protocols, although we do not have long-term supply contracts or guaranteed purchase amounts. We've tried to increase, where necessary, the number of suppliers for our ingredients, which we believe can help mitigate pricing volatility, and we follow industry news, trade issues, weather, crises and other world events that may affect supply prices. We do not purchase raw materials directly from farmers or other suppliers. Instead, we train suppliers to purchase ingredients and other supplies for us based upon our specifications and to negotiate the terms of purchase with raw materials suppliers on our behalf. Distribution Arrangements. We deliver ingredients and other supplies to our stores from 16 regional distribution centers. Of our 16 distribution centers, 13 serve McDonald's, its subsidiaries and its franchisees exclusively, while the other three have customers other than McDonald's. Although this network is comprised of independent distribution centers, there is a possiblity that we may need to replace some of them as we become more independent from McDonald's. Relationship With McDonald's. Our relationship with McDonald's gives us substantial credibility with our suppliers, and we have used McDonald's knowledge of purchasing and supply chain management to negotiate lower prices. For example, McDonald's relationship with Coca-Cola has helped us contain our beverage costs. We also use many of the same suppliers for our paper and packaging products. As we increase our independence from McDonald's, we may face difficulties replacing services it currently provides to us and entering into new or modified arrangements with existing or new suppliers or service providers. Customers Who Sell For Us: Marketing We believe the best and most recognizable brands aren't built through advertising or promotional campaigns alone, but rather through deeply held beliefs evident in how a company runs its business. All of the ways that we project ourselves—beginning with each customer's experience in our stores, the look and feel of our stores, our advertising and promotional programs, and the design items that carry our name or logo—influence how people think about us. By adhering to this principle, we believe that Chipotle is well positioned to become a highly recognized brand. When we open a new store, we plan a range of activities to introduce our food to the local community to help create interest in the store from the start. And our advertising, which includes print, outdoor, transit and radio ads and most recently a sponsorship of a cooking show on the Public Broadcasting Service, has a low-key and irreverent tone that has been popular with customers. In addition, a number of publications have written favorably about our food and store concept, and our food and stores have been featured in television programs produced without our involvement. Although our marketing program has many components, we believe the single greatest contributor to our success has been word-of-mouth, with our customers learning about us and telling others. Some of our customers have gone so far as to develop websites about Chipotle, providing a way for Chipotle customers to share their stories. This kind of support helps us grow without requiring additional advertising expenditures. 4 Competition The fast-casual segment of the restaurant industry is highly competitive and fragmented. In addition, fast-casual restaurants compete against other segments of the restaurant industry, including quick-service restaurants and casual dining restaurants. The number, size and strength of competitors vary by region. All of these restaurants compete based on a number of factors, including taste, quickness of service, value, name recognition, restaurant location and customer service. Competition within the fast-casual restaurant segment, however, focuses primarily on taste, quality and the freshness of the menu items and the ambience and condition of each restaurant. We compete with national and regional fast-casual, quick-service and casual dining restaurants. Our competition also includes a variety of locally owned restaurants and the deli sections and in-store cafés of several major grocery store chains. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources, have been in business longer, have greater name recognition and are better established in the markets where our stores are located or are planned to be located. We believe we're well-positioned to continue to grow our market position in existing and new markets given current favorable consumer trends, including the increasing impact of Hispanic culture on food and flavors, the growth of the Mexican food segment and increasing awareness and concern among consumers about what they eat. Some of our competitors have formats similar to ours. We believe, however, that Chipotle is rapidly becoming one of the most recognized fast-casual restaurants and is known for its focus on using a variety of fresh ingredients and commitment to "food with integrity," which we think represents a significant competitive advantage in the segment in which we operate. Seasonality Seasonal factors cause our profitability to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Historically, our average store sales, which we define as the average trailing 12-month sales for company-owned stores in operation for at least 12 full months, are lower in the first and fourth quarters due, in part, to the holiday season and because fewer people eat out during periods of inclement weather (the winter months) than during periods of mild or warm weather (the spring, summer and fall months). Other factors also have a seasonal effect on our results. For example, stores located near colleges and universities generally do more business during the academic year. Our Intellectual Property and Trademarks "Chipotle," "Chipotle Mexican Grill," "Chipotle Mexican Grill (in stylized font)," "Unburritable," "Food With Integrity," "Fresh Is Not Enough Anymore," "The Gourmet Restaurant Where You Eat With Your Hands," the Chili Pepper Logo design, the Foil Burrito design and the Chipotle Medallion design are U.S. registered trademarks of Chipotle. In addition to these U.S. registrations, we own the trademarks for "Chipotle Mexican Grill" in Brazil and Mexico and for "Chipotle" in Australia and the European Union, among other countries. We have also filed trademark applications for "Chipotle" in a number of countries and for "Chipotle Mexican Grill" in two countries. We plan to assign and transfer our interest in our non-domestic trademarks to Chipotle International, Ltd., our wholly-owned Irish subsidiary. Although our policy is to protect and defend vigorously our rights to this intellectual property, we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our business. 5 Information Systems Chipotle uses an integrated information system to manage the flow of information within each restaurant and between the restaurants and the corporate office. This system includes a point-of-sales local area network that helps facilitate the operations of the restaurant by recording sales transactions and printing orders in the appropriate locations within the restaurant. Additionally, the point-of-sales system is used to authorize, batch and transmit credit card transactions, to record employee time clock information, and to produce a variety of management reports. Select information that is captured from this system is transmitted to the corporate office on a daily basis, which enables management to continually monitor operating results. We believe that our current point-of-sales systems will be an adequate platform to support our continued expansion. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we had about 13,000 employees, including 1,300 salaried employees and 11,700 hourly employees. None of our employees are unionized or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report includes statements of our expectations, intentions plans and beliefs that constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and are intended to come within the safe harbor protection provided by those sections. These statements, which involve risks and uncertainties, relate to the discussion of our business strategies and our expectations concerning future operations, margins, profitability, liquidity and capital resources and to analyses and other information that are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. We have used words such as "may," "will," "should," "expects," "intends," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "thinks," "estimates," "seeks," "expects," "predicts," "could," "projects," "potential" and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, in this report to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made based on expectations and beliefs concerning future events affecting us and are subject to uncertainties, risks and factors relating to our operations and business environments, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control, that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those matters expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and other factors include those listed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this report. When considering these forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the cautionary statements in this report and the documents incorporated by reference. New risks and uncertainties arise from time to time, and we cannot predict those events or how they may affect us. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements after the date of this report as a result of new information, future events or developments, except as required by the federal securities laws. The planned rapid increase in the number of our stores may make our future results unpredictable. There were 489 Chipotle stores as of December 31, 2005, 260 of which have opened since January 1, 2003. We plan to increase the number of our stores significantly in the next three years. This growth strategy and the substantial investment associated with the development of each new store (as well as the impact of our new stores on the sales of existing stores) may cause our operating results to fluctuate and be unpredictable or adversely affect our profits. Our future results depend on various factors, including successful selection of new markets and store locations, market acceptance of the Chipotle experience, consumer recognition of the quality of our food and willingness to pay our prices 6 (which reflect our often higher ingredient costs), the quality of our operations and general economic conditions. What's more, as has happened when other fast-casual restaurant concepts have tried to expand nationally, we may find that the Chipotle concept has limited or no appeal to customers in certain new markets or we may experience a decline in the popularity of the Chipotle experience. Newly opened stores may not succeed, future markets and stores may not be successful and, even if we're successful, our average store sales may not increase at historical rates. As we increase our independence from McDonald's, we may face difficulties replacing services it currently provides to us and entering into new or modified arrangements with existing or new suppliers or service providers. We've benefited from our relationship as a consolidated or majority-owned subsidiary of McDonald's. For example, McDonald's has provided us, directly or through its own vendor relationships, with accounting services, insurance policy coverage, banking services, health and other insurance benefits for our employees and employee benefit plans, as well as with its expertise in certain areas of our operations, such as real estate. We also benefit from our relationship with McDonald's when we buy supplies or distribution or other services. For example, McDonald's relationship with Coca-Cola has helped us contain our beverage costs, and we've relied on the McDonald's distribution network. As long as we are a consolidated or majority-owned subsidiary of McDonald's, we expect to continue to have some of these advantages, and in connection with our initial public offering we entered into a services agreement with McDonald's to clarify our relationship. Following our initial public offering, McDonald's now holds beneficial ownership of shares having about 87% of the combined voting power of our common stock. If McDonald's ownership interest declines significantly in the future, we'll lose an increasing amount of these benefits, many of which will not be covered by the services agreement. For example, we currently obtain beneficial pricing and/or service levels from certain suppliers and service providers, and pay McDonald's for the costs they incur in administering our 401(k) plan and providing certain health benefits, including workers compensation, for our employees. If McDonald's ceases to own more than 80% of the combined voting power of our outstanding stock, we'll need to administer our 401(k) plan and provide these health benefits on a stand-alone basis and could incur increased costs as a result. If McDonald's ceases to own more than 50% of the combined voting power of our outstanding stock, we may have to pay more for processing our credit and debit cards and our gift cards, our audit fees, our property insurance, our umbrella and excess liability premiums and our banking services. In some cases, current benefits, such as the use of McDonald's distribution network, are not contractually tied to the level of McDonald's ownership, and the relevant suppliers and service providers could decide to stop giving us beneficial pricing and/or service levels even if McDonald's still owns a substantial equity stake in us. As we begin to increase our independence from McDonald's, we may have to seek new suppliers and service providers or enter into new arrangements with our existing ones, and we may encounter difficulties or be unable to negotiate pricing or other terms as favorable as those we currently enjoy, which could harm our business and operating results. However, because we currently have not begun to negotiate new or amended contracts with suppliers and service providers, we cannot now quantify with any certainty potential increases in our expenses. Furthermore, as a public company, in each of 2006 and future years, we expect to incur a few million dollars of legal, accounting and other expenses that were not previously required to be incurred by us as a private company. We have no independent operating history as a large company, which makes our future business prospects difficult to evaluate. We have been a subsidiary of McDonald's since 1998, which has affected the way we operate and manage our business. Because we have no independent operating history as a large company, our 7 historical results may not be indicative of our future performance. Our future results depend on various factors, including those identified in these risk factors. We may not remain profitable. Our sales growth rate depends primarily on our ability to open new stores and is subject to many unpredictable factors. We may not be able to open new stores as quickly as planned. We've experienced delays in opening some stores and that could happen again. Delays or failures in opening new stores could materially and adversely affect our growth strategy and our expected results. As we operate more stores, our rate of expansion relative to the size of our store base will decline. In addition, one of our biggest challenges is locating and securing an adequate supply of suitable new store sites. Competition for those sites in our target markets is intense, and lease costs are increasing (particularly for urban locations). Our ability to open new stores also depends on other factors, including: •obtaining and negotiating leases with acceptable terms; •hiring and training qualified operating personnel in the local market; •managing construction and development costs of new stores at affordable levels, particularly in competitive markets; •the availability of construction materials and labor; •the availability of, and our ability to obtain, adequate supplies of ingredients that meet our quality standards; •securing required governmental approvals (including construction, parking and other permits) in a timely manner; and •the impact of inclement weather, natural disasters and other calamities, such as hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. Although we plan to open between 80 and 90 stores in 2006, we may not be able to do so for the reasons described in this risk factor. In addition, our progress in opening new stores from quarter to quarter may occur at an uneven rate. Our sales and profit growth could be adversely affected if comp store sales are less than we expect. While future sales growth will depend substantially on our plans for new store openings, the level of sales at stores open at least 13 full months, which we call comp store sales, will also affect our sales growth and will continue to be a critical factor affecting profit growth. This is because the profit margin on comp store sales is generally higher than the profit margin on new store sales, as comp store sales increases enable fixed costs to be spread over a higher sales base. While we don't expect comp store sales growth to continue at historical levels, our plans do incorporate positive comp store sales. Our ability to increase comp store sales depends in part on our ability to successfully implement our initiatives to increase the speed at which our crew serves each customer, and expanded use of fax service lines and online ordering, which we may not be able to do. It is possible that we will not achieve our targeted comp store sales growth or that the change in comp store sales could be negative. If this were to happen, sales and profit growth would be adversely affected. Our failure to manage our growth effectively could harm our business and operating results. Our plans call for a significant number of new stores. Our existing store management systems, financial and management controls and information systems may be inadequate to support our expansion. Managing our growth effectively will require us to continue to enhance these systems, procedures and controls and to hire, train and retain store managers and crew. We may not respond quickly enough to the changing demands that our expansion will impose on our management, crew and 8 existing infrastructure. We also place a lot of importance on our culture, which we believe has been an important contributor to our success. As we grow, however, we may have difficulty maintaining our culture or adapting it sufficiently to meet the needs of our operations. Our failure to manage our growth effectively could harm our business and operating results. New stores, once opened, may not be profitable, and the increases in average store sales and comp store sales that we've experienced in the past may not be indicative of future results. Historically, our new stores have opened with an initial ramp-up period typically lasting 24 months or more, during which they generated sales and income below the levels at which we expect them to normalize. This is in part due to the time it takes to build a customer base in a new market, higher fixed costs relating to increased construction and occupancy costs and other start-up inefficiencies that are typical of new stores. New stores may neither be profitable nor have results comparable to our existing stores. In addition, our average store sales and comp store sales, which we define as the change in period-over-period sales for the comparable store base which includes company-operated stores opened for at least 13 months, likely will not continue to increase at the rates achieved over the past several years. Our ability to operate new stores profitably and increase average store sales and comp store sales will depend on many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •executing our vision effectively; •initial sales performance of new stores; •competition, either from our competitors in the restaurant industry or our own stores; •changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending; •consumer understanding and acceptance of the Chipotle experience; •road construction and other factors limiting access to new stores; •general economic conditions, which can affect store traffic, local labor costs and prices we pay for the ingredients and other supplies we use; and •changes in government regulation. If we fail to open stores as quickly as planned, or if new stores don't perform as planned, our business and future prospects could be harmed. In addition, changes in our average store sales or comp store sales could cause our operating results to vary adversely from expectations, which could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. Our expansion into new markets may present increased risks due to our unfamiliarity with those areas. Some of our new stores are planned for markets where we have little or no operating experience. Those markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets. As a result, those new stores may be less successful than stores in our existing markets. Consumers in a new market may not be familiar with the Chipotle brand, and we may need to build brand awareness in that market through greater investments in advertising and promotional activity than we originally planned. We may find it more difficult in new markets to hire, motivate and keep qualified employees who can project our vision, passion and culture. Stores opened in new markets may also have lower average store sales than stores opened in existing markets, and may have higher construction, occupancy or operating costs than stores in existing markets. What's more, we may have difficulty in finding reliable suppliers or distributors or ones that can provide us, either initially or over time, with adequate supplies of ingredients meeting our quality standards. Sales at stores opened in new markets may take longer to ramp up and reach expected sales and profit levels, and may never do so, thereby affecting our overall profitability. 9 We may not persuade customers of the benefits of paying our prices for higher-quality food. Our success depends in large part on our ability to persuade customers that food made with higher-quality ingredients is worth the prices they will pay at our stores relative to prices offered by some of our competitors, particularly those in the quick-service segment. We may not successfully educate customers about the quality of our food, and they may not care even if they do understand our approach. That could require us to change our pricing, advertising or promotional strategies, which could materially and adversely affect our results or the brand identity that we've tried to create. Changes in customer tastes and preferences, spending patterns and demographic trends could cause sales to decline. Changes in customer preferences, general economic conditions, discretionary spending priorities, demographic trends, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants affect the restaurant industry. Our success depends to a significant extent on consumer confidence, which is influenced by general economic conditions and discretionary income levels. Our sales may decline during economic downturns, which can be caused by various economic factors such as high gasoline prices, or during periods of uncertainty, such as those that followed the terrorist attacks on the United States in 2001. Similarly, hurricanes Katrina and Rita are affecting consumer confidence and are likely to affect our supply costs, near-term construction costs for our new stores and may affect our sales going forward. Any material decline in consumer confidence or a decline in family "food away from home" spending could cause our sales, operating results, profits, business or financial condition to decline. If we fail to adapt to changes in customer preferences and trends, we may lose customers and our sales may deteriorate. Competition from other restaurant companies could adversely affect us. We operate in the fast-casual segment of the restaurant industry. This segment is highly competitive with respect to, among other things, taste, price, food quality and presentation, service, location and the ambiance and condition of each restaurant. We also compete with restaurants in the quick-service and casual dining segments. Our competition includes a variety of locally owned restaurants and national and regional chains. Our competitors offer dine-in, carry-out and delivery services. Many of our competitors have existed longer and often have a more established market presence with substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than Chipotle. Our parent, McDonald's, operates in the quick-service segment of the restaurant industry. Among our main competitors are a number of multi-unit, multi-market Mexican food or burrito restaurant concepts, some of which are expanding nationally. As we expand further in existing markets, our existing stores may face competition from our new stores that begin operating in those markets. Several of our competitors compete by offering menu items that are specifically identified as low in carbohydrates, better for customers or otherwise targeted at particular consumer preferences. Many of our competitors in the fast-casual and quick-service segments of the restaurant industry also emphasize lower-cost, "value meal" menu options, a strategy we don't pursue. Our sales may be adversely affected by these products and price competition. Moreover, new companies may enter our markets and target our customers. For example, additional competitive pressures have come more recently from the deli sections and in-store cafés of several major grocery store chains, including those targeted at customers who want higher-quality food, as well as from convenience stores and casual dining outlets. These competitors may have, among other things, lower operating costs, better locations, better facilities, better management, more effective marketing and more efficient operations. All of these competitive factors may adversely affect us and reduce our sales and profits. 10 Additional instances of avian flu or of "mad cow" disease or other food-borne illnesses could adversely affect the price and availability of chicken, beef or other meat, cause the temporary closure of some stores and result in negative publicity, thereby resulting in a decline in our sales. Asian and European countries have experienced and continue to experience, outbreaks of avian flu. Incidents of "mad cow" disease have occurred in Canadian and U.S. cattle herds. These problems, food-borne illnesses (such as e. coli, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella) and injuries caused by food tampering have in the past, and could in the future, adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients and cause customers to shift their preferences, particularly if we choose to pass any higher ingredient costs along to consumers. As a result, our sales may decline. Instances of food-borne illnesses, real or perceived, whether at our stores or those of our competitors, could also result in negative publicity about us or the restaurant industry, which could adversely affect sales. If we react to negative publicity by changing our menu or other key aspects of the Chipotle experience, we may lose customers who do not accept those changes, and may not be able to attract enough new customers to produce the revenue needed to make our stores profitable. In addition, we may have different or additional competitors for our intended customers as a result of making these changes and may not be able to compete successfully against those competitors. If our customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, we could be forced to temporarily close some stores. For example, in June 2004, Texas health officials investigated reports that customers and employees had become ill with flu-like symptoms after spending time in one of our stores, and we closed that store for less than a week. A decrease in customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a change in our menu or dining experience or a temporary closure of any of our stores, could materially harm our business. Changes in food and supply costs could adversely affect our results of operations. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food and supply costs. Any increase in the prices of the ingredients most critical to our menu, such as beef, chicken, cheese, avocados, beans, tomatoes and pork, could adversely affect our operating results. Although we try to manage the impact that these fluctuations have on our operating results, we remain susceptible to increases in food costs as a result of factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, seasonal fluctuations, weather conditions, demand, food safety concerns, generalized infectious diseases, product recalls and government regulations. For example, higher diesel prices have in some cases resulted in the imposition of surcharges on the delivery of commodities to our distributors, which they have generally passed on to us to the extent permitted under our arrangements with them. In 2004, hurricanes in some parts of the United States damaged tomato crops and drove prices higher. Similarly, in 2005, hurricane Katrina destroyed a number of chickens raised by one of our chicken suppliers and increased our short-term chicken prices. Both hurricanes Katrina and Rita have resulted in higher diesel and gasoline prices, are affecting consumer confidence and are likely to affect our supply costs and near-term construction costs for our new stores. In addition, in 2004, prices for chicken rose significantly due to a ban by Asian countries on their chicken exports following outbreaks of avian flu. Avian flu continues to spread and could potentially impact our cost for chicken in the future. We do not have long-term supply contracts or guaranteed purchase amounts. As a result, we may not be able to anticipate or react to changing food costs by adjusting our purchasing practices or menu prices, which could cause our operating results to deteriorate. In addition, because we provide moderately priced food, we may choose not to, or be unable to, pass along commodity price increases to our customers. 11 We may have experienced a security breach with respect to certain customer credit and debit card data, and we have incurred and may continue to incur substantial costs as a result of this matter. We may also incur costs resulting from other security risks we may face in connection with our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer information. In August 2004, the merchant bank that processes our credit and debit card transactions (the "acquiring bank") informed us that we may have been the victim of a possible theft of credit and debit card data. Together with two forensic auditing firms, we investigated the alleged theft and reviewed our information systems and information security procedures. We also reported the problem to federal law enforcement authorities and have cooperated in their investigation. While to date we have not discovered conclusive evidence that a theft occurred, we identified some store practices that may have made information systems at our stores vulnerable during periods before August 2004. Notably, without our knowledge, the card processing software we used inadvertently retained credit and debit card "Track 2" data, consisting of, among other items, the customer's name, card number, card expiration date and card verification number. In addition, the internet gateways on our computers in some stores may not have been fully secure at all times. As a result, outside parties may have gained access to stored information. It is possible that all of the cards we processed since we began accepting them may have been vulnerable. In the three months prior to being notified of the problem, we processed between 1.3 million and 1.5 million credit and debit card charges each month. Through the end of February 2006, we have received claims through the acquiring bank with respect to fewer than 2,000 purportedly fraudulent credit and debit card charges allegedly arising out of this matter in an aggregate amount of about $1.3 million. We've also incurred $1.3 million of expense in connection with fines imposed by the Visa and MasterCard card associations on the acquiring bank. In 2004, we recorded charges of $4.0 million to establish a reserve for claims seeking reimbursement for purportedly fraudulent credit and debit card charges, the cost of replacing cards, monitoring expenses and fees, and fines imposed by Visa and MasterCard. All of the reimbursement claims are being disputed, although we've not formally protested all of the charges. As of December 31, 2005, after charging these expenses against the reserve, the remaining reserve was $1.8 million, which does not take into account an unpaid fine of $0.4 million assessed by MasterCard in December 2005 that we expect to apply against the reserve in 2006. In addition to the reserve, we've also incurred about $1.5 million of additional expenses in this matter, including $1.3 million for legal fees, bringing our total expense relating to this matter to $5.5 million. We have not reserved any additional amounts to date in 2006. We may in the future become subject to additional claims for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of this matter. As long as a credit or debit card is active, fraudulent charges may be made using that card until the card's expiration date. We may also be subject to lawsuits or other proceedings by various interested parties, including banks and credit unions that issue cards, cardholders (either individually or as part of a class action lawsuit) and federal and state regulators. The statutes of limitation for pursuing some of these potential claims may extend for six years or more in some cases, depending on the circumstances. Moreover, the application of the law and the rules and procedures of the major card associations in these circumstances is generally untested. Any lawsuit or other proceeding will likely be complex, costly and protracted, which could in turn divert financial and management resources from execution of our business plan. We have no way to predict the level of claims or the number or nature of proceedings that may be asserted against us, nor can we quantify the costs that we may incur in connection with investigating, responding to and defending any of them. If we litigate these matters, we may not be able to defend against penalties successfully. The ultimate outcome of this matter could differ materially from the amounts we've recorded in our reserve and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and condition. Consumer perception of our brand could also be negatively affected by these events, which could further adversely affect our results and prospects. 12 Despite the changes we've made to our information systems as a result of this matter, we still need to periodically upgrade our software. We rely on commercially available software and other technologies to provide security for processing and transmission of customer credit card data. During 2005, a significant portion of our sales were attributable to credit card transactions, and we expect credit card usage to increase. Our systems could be compromised in the future, which could result in the misappropriation of customer information or the disruption of our systems. Either of those consequences could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business or subject us to additional liabilities. We engaged Internet Security Systems ("ISS") to perform our Visa Payment Card Industry audit. ISS submitted our full Report on Compliance ("ROC") on December 30, 2005. The ROC stated that ISS felt Chipotle had controls that were either "in place" or "in place with compensating controls" for every section of the ROC. We are awaiting a response from Visa either accepting our ROC or requesting further clarification. Failure to receive frequent deliveries of higher-quality food ingredients and other supplies could harm our operations. Our ability to maintain our menu depends in part on our ability to acquire ingredients that meet our specifications from reliable suppliers. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of ingredients caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, food contamination, inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of our ingredients, which could harm our operations. If any of our distributors or suppliers performs inadequately, or our distribution or supply relationships are disrupted for any reason, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. We currently depend on three or four suppliers for our pork, chicken and beef supplies. It could be more difficult to replace our pork suppliers if we were no longer able to rely on them due to the unique nature of the products we receive from them. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our suppliers. In addition, we've relied on the McDonald's distribution network. As we begin to increase our independence from McDonald's, we may have to seek new suppliers and service providers. If we cannot replace or engage distributors or suppliers who meet our specifications in a short period of time, that could increase our expenses and cause shortages of food and other items at our stores, which could cause a store to remove items from its menu. If that were to happen, affected stores could experience significant reductions in sales during the shortage or thereafter, if our customers change their dining habits as a result. Our focus on a limited menu would make the consequences of a shortage of a key ingredient more severe. In addition, our approach to competing in the restaurant industry depends in large part on our continued ability to adhere to the principle of "food with integrity." We use a substantial amount of naturally raised and sustainably grown ingredients, and try to make our food as fresh as we can, in light of pricing considerations. As we increase our use of these ingredients, the ability of our suppliers to expand output or otherwise increase their supplies to meet our needs may be constrained. Our inability to obtain a sufficient and consistent supply of these ingredients on a cost-effective basis, or at all, could cause us difficulties in aligning our brand with the principle of "food with integrity." That could make us less popular among our customers and cause sales to decline. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to various factors. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly because of various factors, including: •the impact of inclement weather, natural disasters and other calamities, such as hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005; •the timing of new store openings and related revenues and expenses; 13 •operating costs at our newly opened stores, which are often materially greater during the first several months of operation; •labor availability and wages of store management and crew; •profitability of our stores, especially in new markets; •changes in comp store sales and customer visits, including as a result of the introduction of new menu items; •variations in general economic conditions, including those relating to changes in gasoline prices; •negative publicity about the ingredients we use or the occurrence of food-borne illnesses or other problems at our stores; •changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending; •increases in infrastructure costs; and •fluctuations in supply prices. Seasonal factors also cause our profitability to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our average store sales are typically lower during the winter months and the holiday season and during periods of inclement weather (because fewer people are eating out) and higher during the spring, summer and fall months (for the opposite reason). Our revenue will also vary as a result of the number of trading days, that is, the number of days in a quarter when a store is open. As a result of these factors, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year. Average store sales or comp store sales in any particular future period may decrease. In the future, operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our common stock would likely decrease. Our success depends substantially upon the continued retention of certain key personnel. We believe that our success has depended and continues to depend to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team. The members of our management team currently are employed by us on an "at-will" basis and may resign from our employment at any time, subject in certain cases to the forfeiture of options or unvested shares they may hold. Our failure to retain members of that team could materially adversely affect our ability to build on the efforts they've undertaken with respect to our business. In particular, the loss of Steve Ells, our founder and Chief Executive Officer, Monty Moran, our President and Chief Operating Officer, Jack Hartung, our Chief Finance and Development Officer, or Bob Wilner, our Chief Administrative Officer, could materially adversely affect us. Our business could be adversely affected by increased labor costs or difficulties in finding the right teams for our stores. Labor is a primary component of our operating costs, and we believe good managers and crew are a key part of our success. We devote significant resources to recruiting and training our store managers and crew. Increased labor costs due to factors like competition, increased minimum wage requirements and employee benefits would adversely impact our operating costs. Our success also depends in part on the energy and skills of our employees and our ability to hire, motivate and keep qualified employees, including especially store managers and crew members. Our failure to find and keep enough employees who are a good fit with our culture could delay planned store openings, result in higher employee turnover or require us to change our culture, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Restaurant operators have traditionally experienced relatively high employee turnover rates. Any increase in our turnover rates for managers or crew could be costly. 14 Our franchisees could take actions that harm our reputation and reduce our royalty revenues. We do not exercise control over the day-to-day operations of our franchised stores. While we try to ensure that franchised stores meet the same operating standards that we demand of company-operated stores, one or more franchised stores may not do so. Any operational shortcomings of our franchised stores are likely to be attributed to our system-wide operations and could adversely affect our reputation and have a direct negative impact on the royalty revenues we receive from those stores. We expect to need capital in the future, and we may not be able to raise that capital on acceptable terms. Developing our business will require significant capital in the future. Prior to our initial public offering, we funded our operations and growth primarily through capital investments by McDonald's and, to a lesser degree, our minority shareholders, and in some cases short-term borrowings from McDonald's that we repaid through private placements of our equity securities. However, McDonald's has no obligation to continue providing us with capital in the future. To meet our capital needs, we expect to rely on our cash flow from operations and the proceeds from our initial public offering. Should we need additional funding, third party financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Our ability to obtain additional funding will be subject to various factors, including market conditions, our operating performance, lender sentiment and our ability to incur debt in compliance with then-existing contractual restrictions. These factors may make the timing, amount, terms and conditions of additional financings unattractive. Our inability to raise capital could impede our growth. We're subject to all of the risks associated with leasing space subject to long-term non-cancelable leases and, with respect to the real property that we own, owning real estate. Our leases generally have initial terms of between five and 20 years, and generally can be extended only in five-year increments (at increased rates) if at all. All of our leases require a fixed annual rent, although some require the payment of additional rent if store sales exceed a negotiated amount. Generally, our leases are "net" leases, which require us to pay all of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities. We generally cannot cancel these leases. Additional sites that we lease are likely to be subject to similar long-term non-cancelable leases. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. In addition, as each of our leases expires, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations. Also, because we purchase real property for various store locations from time to time, we're subject to all of the risks generally associated with owning real estate, including changes in the investment climate for real estate, demographic trends and supply or demand for the use of the stores, which may result from competition from similar restaurants in the area as well as strict, joint and several liability for environmental contamination at or from the property, regardless of fault. Governmental regulation may adversely affect our ability to open new stores or otherwise adversely affect our existing and future operations and results. We are subject to various federal, state and local regulations. Each of our stores is subject to state and local licensing and regulation by health, alcoholic beverage, sanitation, food and workplace safety and other agencies. We may experience material difficulties or failures in obtaining the necessary licenses or approvals for new stores, which could delay planned store openings. In addition, stringent and varied requirements of local regulators with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay or prevent development of new stores in particular locations. We are subject to the U.S. Americans with Disabilities Act and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations 15 and other areas. We may in the future have to modify stores, for example by adding access ramps or redesigning certain architectural fixtures, to provide service to or make reasonable accommodations for disabled persons. The expenses associated with these modifications could be material. Our operations are also subject to the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, along with the U.S. Americans with Disabilities Act, family leave mandates and a variety of similar laws enacted by the states that govern these and other employment law matters. In addition, federal proposals to introduce a system of mandated health insurance and flexible work time and other similar initiatives could, if implemented, adversely affect our operations. In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory and consumer focus on nutrition and advertising practices in the food industry. Restaurants operating in the quick-service and fast-casual segments have been a particular focus. As a result, we may in the future become subject to initiatives in the area of nutrition disclosure or advertising, such as requirements to provide information about the nutritional content of our food, that could increase our expenses. We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning the discharge, storage, handling, release and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances ("environmental laws"). These environmental laws provide for significant fines, penalties and liabilities, sometimes without regard to whether the owner or operator of the property knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. Third parties may also make claims against owners or operators of properties for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of, or actual or alleged exposure to, such substances. We cannot predict what environmental laws will be enacted in the future, how existing or future environmental laws will be administered or interpreted, or the amount of future expenditures that we may need to make to comply with, or to satisfy claims relating to, environmental laws. We have not conducted a comprehensive environmental review of our properties or operations. We have, however, conducted investigations of some of our properties and identified contamination caused by third-party operations which we believe have or should be addressed by the third party. If the relevant third party does not or has not addressed the identified contamination properly or completely, then under certain environmental laws, we could be held liable as an owner and operator to address any remaining contamination. Any such liability could be material. Further, we may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities at our properties, and any such liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations or results of operations. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our business. Our intellectual property is material to the conduct of our business. Our ability to implement our business plan successfully depends in part on our ability to further build brand recognition using our trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logos and the unique ambience of our stores. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are inadequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, either in print or on the internet, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and might prevent our brands from achieving or maintaining market acceptance. We may also encounter claims from prior users of similar intellectual property in areas where we operate or intend to conduct operations. This could harm our image, brand or competitive position and cause us to incur significant penalties and costs. 16 We could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by distracting management, increasing our expenses or subjecting us to material money damages and other remedies. Our customers occasionally file complaints or lawsuits against us alleging that we're responsible for some illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to our stores, or that we have problems with food quality or operations. We're also subject to a variety of other claims arising in the ordinary course of our business, including personal injury claims, contract claims and claims alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters, and we could become subject to class action or other lawsuits related to these or different matters in the future. For example, we're currently investigating issues that may arise in connection with the possible theft of certain credit and debit card data. We're also subject to "dram shop" statutes, which generally allow persons injured by intoxicated people to recover damages from the place that wrongfully served those people alcohol. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we're ultimately held liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance. A judgment significantly in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also materially and adversely affect our reputation or prospects, which in turn could adversely affect our results. In addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to a growing number of claims based on the nutritional content of food products they sell and disclosure and advertising practices. We may also be subject to this type of proceeding in the future and, even if not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick-service and fast-casual segments of the industry) may harm our reputation or prospects and adversely affect our results. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and the New York Stock Exchange regulate corporate governance practices of public companies. Compliance with the requirements applicable to a public company will increase our costs and make some activities more time-consuming. For example, we have created new board committees and adopted new internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, we will incur additional expenses associated with our SEC reporting requirements. A number of those requirements will require us to carry out activities we have not done previously. For example, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, for our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2007, we'll need to document and test our internal control procedures, our management will need to assess and report on our internal control over financial reporting and our independent accountants will need to issue an opinion on that assessment and the effectiveness of those controls. Furthermore, if we identify any issues in complying with those requirements (for example, if we or our accountants identified a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting), we could incur additional costs rectifying those issues, and the existence of those issues could adversely affect us, our reputation or investor perceptions of us. Costs to obtain director and officer liability insurance are generally greater for public companies, and we will incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. As a result of the associated liability, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Advocacy efforts by shareholders and third parties may also prompt even more changes in governance and reporting requirements. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. 17 We're controlled by McDonald's, whose interests may conflict with those of our investors. Currently, McDonald's beneficially owns no shares of our class A common stock, but owns about 90% of our outstanding class B common stock, representing 87% of the combined voting power of our outstanding stock and 65% of the economic interest in our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, as it has since 1998 when we became its subsidiary, McDonald's continues to exercise significant influence over our business policies and affairs, including the composition of our board of directors and any action requiring the approval of our shareholders, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation, the issuance of additional shares of equity securities, the payment of dividends and the approval of mergers or a sale of substantially all of our assets. The concentration of ownership may also make some transactions, including mergers or other changes in control, more difficult or impossible without the support of McDonald's. McDonald's interests may conflict with your interests as a shareholder. Conflicts of interest between McDonald's and us could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us. Various conflicts of interest between McDonald's and us could arise. Many of our officers own stock in McDonald's, in some cases it could be more than the amount of Chipotle common stock they own. In addition, one of our directors, Mats Lederhausen, is Managing Director of our controlling shareholder, McDonald's Ventures, LLC. Ownership interests of directors or officers of McDonald's in the common stock of Chipotle, or a person's service as either a director or officer of both companies, could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when those directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for McDonald's and Chipotle. These decisions could, for example, relate to: •disagreement over corporate opportunities; •competition between us and McDonald's; •management stock ownership; •employee retention or recruiting; •our dividend policy; and •the services and arrangements from which Chipotle benefits as a result of its relationship with McDonald's. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we enter into any new commercial arrangements with McDonald's in the future. Our directors and officers who have interests in both McDonald's and us may also face conflicts of interest with regard to the allocation of their time between McDonald's and Chipotle. Our restated certificate of incorporation includes the following provisions relating to corporate opportunities of us and McDonald's, which provisions will remain in effect for so long as McDonald's owns at least 5% of our outstanding common stock or at least one person who is a director or officer of us is also a director or officer of McDonald's: •McDonald's will not have a duty to refrain from engaging directly or indirectly in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us, and neither McDonald's nor any of its officers or directors will be liable to us or our shareholders for breach of any duty by reason of any such activities. •If McDonald's acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity for McDonald's and us, McDonald's will have no duty to communicate or offer such corporate opportunity to us and will not be liable to us or our shareholders for breach of any duty as our shareholder if McDonald's pursues or acquires such corporate opportunity for itself, 18 directs such corporate opportunity to another person or entity, or does not communicate information about, or offer, such corporate opportunity to us. •if a corporate opportunity is offered to: •one of our officers or employees who is also a director (but not an officer or employee) of McDonald's, that opportunity will belong to us unless expressly offered to that person primarily in his or her capacity as a director of McDonald's, in which case it will belong to McDonald's; •one of our directors who is also an officer or employee of McDonald's, that opportunity will belong to McDonald's unless expressly offered to that person primarily in his or her capacity as our director, in which case it will belong to us; and •any person who is either (i) an officer or employee of both us and McDonald's or (ii) a director of both us and McDonald's (but not an officer or employee of either one), that opportunity will belong to McDonald's unless expressly offered to that person primarily in his or her capacity as our director, in which case such opportunity shall belong to us. Prior to our initial public offering, our tax allocation agreement with McDonald's provided that McDonald's, as our parent, had the sole authority to file federal income tax returns and most state income tax returns on our behalf and that McDonald's would be responsible for administering that agreement until the consummation of the initial public offering. This arrangement terminated for federal and some state income tax purposes for taxable periods following the initial public offering. However, the tax allocation agreement remains in effect for taxable years prior to the initial public offering and for some state returns. Consequently, this may result in conflicts of interest between McDonald's and us. For example, McDonald's may choose to contest, compromise or settle any adjustment or deficiency proposed by the relevant taxing authority in a manner that may be beneficial to McDonald's and detrimental to us and for which we may be required to reimburse McDonald's under the tax allocation agreement. The tax allocation agreement will continue to apply to, and govern, the sharing of tax liabilities between McDonald's and us for state tax purposes for those states in which we and McDonald's will continue to file tax returns on a combined basis. Future sales or distributions of our shares by McDonald's could depress our class A common stock price. After the initial public offering, and subject to the currently applicable lock-up period described below, McDonald's may sell all or a portion of the shares of our class B common stock that it owns (which shares would be converted automatically into class A shares in connection with any sale prior to a tax-free distribution) or distribute those shares to its shareholders, including a distribution in exchange for McDonald's shares or securities (or another similar transaction). Sales by McDonald's in the public market or distributions to its shareholders of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the filing by us on behalf of McDonald's of a registration statement relating to a substantial amount of our common stock, could depress our class A common stock price. McDonald's has informed us that, at some time in the future, but no earlier than the expiration of the lock-up period, it may sell all or a portion of its ownership interest in us or may make a tax-free distribution, including a distribution in exchange for McDonald's shares or securities (or another similar transaction), to its shareholders of all or a portion of that interest. McDonald's is not subject to any contractual obligation to maintain its ownership position in our shares, except that it has agreed not to sell or otherwise dispose of any of our shares of common stock for a period ending 180 days (subject to extension) after the effective date of initial public offering without the prior written consent of Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and SG Cowen & Co., LLC, on behalf of the underwriters, subject to specified limited exceptions and extensions. Consequently, McDonald's may decide not to maintain its ownership of our common stock once the lock-up period expires. 19 In addition, McDonald's will have the right, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering its shares or to include its shares in other registration statements that we may file. Should McDonald's exercise their registration rights and sell a large number of shares, the price of our class A common stock might decline. 