Risk Factors; • fluctuations in supply costs, particularly for our most significant food items; • our ability to raise menu prices without adversely impacting customer traffic, particularly if food costs continue to increase; • labor availability and wages of restaurant management and crew, as well as temporary fluctuations in labor costs as a result of large-scale changes in workforce; • negative publicity about the ingredients we use or the occurrence of food-borne illnesses or other problems at our restaurants; • the timing of new restaurant openings and related revenues and expenses; • operating costs at newly opened restaurants, which are often materially greater during the first several months of operation; • the impact of inclement weather, natural disasters and other calamities, such as freezes that have impacted produce crops and droughts that have impacted livestock and the supply of certain meats; • variations in general economic conditions, including the impact of declining interest rates on our interest income; • increases in infrastructure costs; • litigation, settlement costs and related legal expense; • tax expenses, impairment charges and other non-operating costs; and • potential distraction or unusual expenses associated with our expansion into international markets or initiatives to expand new concepts. 25 Table of Contents Seasonal factors also cause our results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our restaurant sales are typically lower during the winter months and the holiday season and during periods of inclement weather (because fewer people are eating out) and higher during the spring, summer and fall months (for the opposite reason). Our restaurant sales will also vary as a result of the number of trading days—that is, the number of days in a quarter when a restaurant is open. As a result of these factors, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year. Average restaurant sales or comparable restaurant sales in any particular future period may decrease. In the future, operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to fall. We believe the market price of our common stock, which has generally traded at a higher price-earnings ratio than stocks of most or all of our peer companies, reflects high market expectations for our future operating results. The trading market for our common stock has been volatile at times as well. As a result, if we fail to meet market expectations for our operating results in the future, any resulting decline in the price of our common stock could be significant. Our anti-takeover provisions may delay or prevent a change in control of us, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Certain provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent a change in control of us, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain some provisions that may make the acquisition of control of us without the approval of our board of directors more difficult, including provisions relating to the nomination, election and removal of directors, the structure of the board of directors and limitations on actions by our shareholders. In addition, Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Any of these provisions may discourage a potential acquirer from proposing or completing a transaction that may have otherwise presented a premium to our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 26 Table of Contents 