Item 1A. Risk Factors Historical performance may not be indicative of future performance and, as noted elsewhere in this report, the Company has included forward-looking statements about its business, plans and prospects that are subject to change. Forward-looking statements are particularly located in, but not limited to, the sections Item 1- Business and Item 7- Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. In addition to the other risks or uncertainties contained in this report, the following risks may affect operating results, financial condition and cash flows. If any of these risks occur, either alone or in combination with other factors, the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. Moreover, readers should note this is not an exhaustive list; that some risks are unknown or not quantifiable, and other risks that are currently perceived as immaterial may ultimately prove more significant than expected. Statements about plans, predictions or expectations should not be construed to be assurances of performance or promises to take a given course of action. A large percentage of the Company’s loan portfolio is secured by real estate, in particular commercial real estate. Continued deterioration in the real estate market or other segments of the Company’s loan portfolio would lead to additional losses which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations Approximately 64.8% of the Company’s loan portfolio is secured by real estate, the majority of which is commercial real estate. As a result increased levels of commercial and consumer delinquencies and declining real estate values, the Company has experienced increasing levels of net charge-offs and allowances for loan losses. Continued increases in commercial and consumer delinquency levels or continued declines in real estate market values would require increased net charge-offs and increases in the allowance for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects. 7 Future loan losses may exceed the allowance for loan losses The Company has established a reserve for possible losses expected in connection with loans in the credit portfolio. This allowance reflects estimates of the collectibility of certain identified loans, as well as an overall risk assessment of total loans outstanding. The determination of the amount of loan loss allowance is subjective; although the method for determining the amount of the allowance uses criteria such as risk ratings and historical loss rates, these factors may not be adequate predictors of future loan performance. Accordingly, the Company cannot offer assurances that these estimates ultimately will prove correct or that the loan loss allowance will be sufficient to protect against losses that ultimately may occur. If the loan loss allowance proves to be inadequate, it may require unexpected charges to income, which would adversely impact results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, bank regulators frequently monitor banks' loan lo ss allowances, and if regulators were to determine that the allowance was inadequate, they may require the Company to increase the allowance, which also would adversely impact revenues and financial condition. Defaults may negatively impact the Company A source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained if a significant number of borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The Company has adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for credit losses, which management believes are appropriate to minimize risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying the credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially affect results of operations. A rapid change in interest rates could reduce the Company’s net interest margin, net interest income and fee income The Company’s earnings are impacted by changing interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the demand for new loans, the credit profile of existing loans, the rates received on loans and securities, and rates paid on deposits and borrowings. The relationship between the rates received on loans and securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings is known as the net interest spread. Based on the Company’s current volume and mix of interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning assets, net interest spread could be expected to increase during times when interest rates rise in a parallel shift along the yield curve and, conversely, to decline during times of similar falling interest rates. Exposure to interest rate risk is managed by monitoring the re-pricing frequency of rate-sensitive assets and rate-sensitive liabilities over any given period. Although management believes the current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable, significant fluctuations in interest rates could potentially have an adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Tightening of credit markets and liquidity risk Liquidity measures the ability to meet loan demand and deposit withdrawals and to service liabilities as they come due. Dramatic fluctuations in loan or deposit balances make it challenging to manage liquidity. A sharp reduction in deposits could force the Company to borrow heavily in the wholesale deposit market. In addition, rapid loan growth during periods of low liquidity could induce the Company to purchase federal funds from correspondent banks, borrow at the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle or Federal Reserve discount window, raise deposit interest rates or reduce lending activity. Wholesale deposits and federal funds or other sources for borrowings may not be available to us due to regulatory constraints, market upheaval or unfavorable terms. Slower than anticipated growth from new branches, service offerings or acquisitions could result in reduced net income Financial performance and profitability will depend on the Company’s ability to manage recent growth and potential future growth. In addition, any future acquisitions and continued growth may present operating and other problems that could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to execute it’s growth strategy or maintain the level of profitability that it has achieved in the past. 8 Internal control systems could fail to detect certain events The Company is subject to many operating risks, including but not limited to data processing system failures and errors, and customer or employee fraud. There can be no assurance that such an event will not occur, and if such an event is not prevented or detected by other Company’s internal controls and does occur, and it is uninsured or is in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s reputation in the business community and the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company’s operations could be interrupted if third party service providers experience difficulty, terminate their services, or fail to comply with banking regulations The Company depends, and will continue to depend to a significant extent, on a number of relationships with third-party service providers. Specifically, the Company utilizes software and hardware systems for processing, essential web hosting, debit and credit card processing, merchant processing, Internet banking systems, and other processing services from third-party service providers. If these third-party service providers experience difficulties or terminate their services, and the Company is unable to replace them with other qualified service providers, the Company’s operations could be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The network and computer systems on which the Company depends could fail or experience a security breach The Company’s computer systems could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Because the Company conducts part of its business over the Internet and outsource several critical functions to third parties, operations depend on the Company’s ability, and to a degree on the ability of third-party service providers to protect computer systems and network infrastructure against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, mechanical failure, software errors, operator errors, physical break-ins, or similar catastrophic events. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in operations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, a significant barrier to online financial transactions is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. The Company’s Internet banking system relies on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, fraud perpetrated by a customer, employee, or third-party, or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms the Bank or our third-party service providers use to protect the confidentiality and integrity of data, including non-public customer information. If any such compromise of security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company may not be able to replace key members of management or attract and retain qualified employees in the future The Company depends on the services of existing management to carry out its business strategies. As the Company expands, it will need to continue to attract and retain additional management and other qualified staff. In particular, because the Company plans to continue to expand its locations and products and services, it will need to continue to attract and retain qualified banking personnel. Competition for such personnel is significant in the Company’s geographic market areas. The loss of the services of any management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial conditions, and prospects. The Company’s operations are geographically concentrated in Northwest Washington State Substantially, all of the Company’s business is derived from a five-county area in northwest Washington State. Employment opportunities within these communities have traditionally been primarily in the areas of military spending, oil and gas industries, tourism and manufacturing. While the Company’s expansion strategy has been built around these growing and diverse geographic markets, the Company’s business is, and will remain, sensitive to economic factors that relate to these industries and to local and regional business conditions. As a result, local or regional economic downturns, or downturns that disproportionately affect one or more of the key industries in the Company’s markets, may have a more pronounced effect upon it’s business than they might on an institution that is more broadly diverse in geographic concentration. The extent of the future impact of these events on economic and business conditions cannot be predicted; ho wever, prolonged or acute fluctuations could have a material and adverse impact upon the Company’s results of operation and financial condition. 9 There are significant risks associated with potential acquisitions, including participating in FDIC-assisted acquisitions or assuming deposits from a troubled institution The Company may make opportunistic whole or partial acquisitions of other banks, branches, financial institutions, or related businesses from time to time that it expects to further its business strategy. These acquisitions could involve numerous risks, including lower than expected performance or higher than expected costs, difficulties related to integration, diversion of management’s attention from other business activities, changes in relationships with customers, and the potential loss of key employees. Any possible acquisition will be subject to regulatory approval, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain such approval. The Company may not be successful in identifying acquisition candidates, integrating acquired institutions, or preventing deposit erosion or loan quality deterioration at acquired institutions. Competition for acquisitions in the Company’s market area is highly competitive, and the Company may not be able to acquire other institutions on attractive terms. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in completing or will even pursue future acquisitions, or if such transactions are completed, that it will be successful in integrating acquired businesses into its operations. The Company’s ability to grow may be limited if it chooses not to pursue or are unable to successfully make acquisitions in the future. The Company’s banking operations are subject to extensive government regulation that is expected to become more burdensome, increase its costs and make it less competitive compared to financial services firms that are not subject to the same regulation The Company is subject to government regulation that could limit or restrict it’s activities, which in turn could adversely impact operations. The financial services industry is regulated extensively. Federal and state regulation is designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, as well as shareholders. These regulations can sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. Moreover, federal and state banking laws and regulations undergo frequent, significant changes. Changes in laws and regulations may affect the cost of doing business, limit permissible activities (including insurance and securities activities), or the Company’s competitive position in relation to credit unions, savings associations and other financial institutions. These changes could also reduce federal deposit insurance coverage, broaden the powers or geographic range of financial holding companies, alter the taxation of financial institutions an d change the structure and jurisdiction of various regulatory agencies. Federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, can significantly affect credit availability. Other federal legislation such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act can dramatically shift resources and costs to ensure adequate compliance. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consum er confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity, generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company does not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: The Company expects to face increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of the EESA and ARRA. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Government stimulus packages and other responses to the financial crises may not stabilize the economy or financial system. The Company’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches the Company uses to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. 10 The process the Company uses to estimate losses inherent in its credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of the Bank’s borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. The Company will be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. There may be downward pressure on the Company’s stock price. The Company’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions and government sponsored entities. The Company may face increased competition due to intensified consolidation of the financial services industry. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on the Company’s ability to access capital and on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of the Company’s participation in the Troubled Asset Relief Program, the Company is subject to several restrictions including restrictions on its ability to declare or pay dividends and repurchase its shares as well as restrictions on compensation paid to our executives On January 16, 2009, in exchange for an aggregate purchase price of $26.4 million, the Company issued and sold to the United States Department of the Treasury pursuant to the TARP Capital Purchase Program the following: (i) 26,380 shares of the Company’s newly designated Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, no par value per share, and liquidation preference $1,000 per share ($26.4 million liquidation preference in the aggregate) and (ii) a warrant to purchase up to 492,164 shares of the Company’s common stock, no par value per share, at an exercise price of $8.04 per share, subject to certain anti-dilution and other adjustments. The Warrant may be exercised for up to ten years after it is issued. In connection with the issuance and sale of the Company’s securities, the Company entered into a Letter Agreement including the Securities Purchase Agreement — Standard Terms, dated January 16, 2009, with the United States Department of the Treasury (the “Agreement”). The Agreement contains limitations on the payment of quarterly cash dividends on the Company’s common stock in excess of $0.065 per share, and on the Company’s ability to repurchase its common stock. The Agreement also grants the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, the Warrant and the common stock to be issued under the Warrant registration rights and subjects the Company to executive compensation limitations included in the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. Participants in the TARP Capital Purchase Program are required to have in place limitations on the compensation of Senior Executive Officers. The financial services industry is highly competitive Competition may adversely affect the Company’s performance. The financial services business is becoming increasingly competitive due to changes in regulation, technological advances, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. The Company faces competition both in attracting deposits and in originating loans. Competition for loan’s principally through the pricing of interest rates and loan fees, and the efficiency and quality of services. Increasing levels of competition in the banking and financial services industries may reduce market share or cause the prices charged for services to fall. Results may differ in future periods depending upon the nature or level of competition. Shares eligible for future sale could have a dilutive effect Shares of the Company’s common stock eligible for future sale, including those that may be issued in connection with the Company’s various stock option and equity compensation plans, in possible acquisitions, and any other offering of Company’s common stock for cash, could have a dilutive effect on the market for Company’s common stock and could adversely affect its market price. There are 13,679,757 shares of Company’s common stock authorized, of which 9,510,007 shares were outstanding as of December 31, 2008. 11 The failure of the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Seattle or the national Federal Home Loan Bank System may have a material negative impact on the Company’s earnings and liquidity Recently, the FHLB of Seattle announced that it did not meet minimum regulatory capital requirements for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, and that it did not expect to comply with those requirements at December 31, 2008, due to the deterioration in the market value of their mortgage-backed securities portfolio. As a result, the FHLB of Seattle cannot pay a dividend on their common stock and it cannot repurchase or redeem common stock. While the FHLB of Seattle has announced it does not anticipate that additional capital is immediately necessary, nor does it believe that its capital level is inadequate to support realized losses in the future, the FHLB of Seattle could require its members, including the Company, to contribute additional capital in order to return the FHLB of Seattle to compliance with capital guidelines. At December 31, 2008, the Company held $2.4 million of common stock in the FHLB of Seattle. Should the FHLB of Seattle fail, the Company anticipates that its investment in the FHLB’s common stock would be “other than temporarily” impaired and may have no value. At December 31, 2008, the Company held $381,567 of cash on deposit with the FHLB of Seattle. At that date, all other cash and cash equivalents were held on deposit at the Pacific Coast Banker’s Bank, or on hand in branch office vaults. At December 31, 2008, the Company maintained a line of credit with the FHLB of Seattle equal to 18% of total assets to the extent the Company provides qualifying collateral and holds sufficient FHLB stock. At December 31, 2008, the Company was in compliance with collateral requirements and $121.1 million of the line of credit was available for additional borrowings. The Company is highly dependent on the FHLB of Seattle to provide the primary source of wholesale funding for immediate liquidity and borrowing needs. The failure of the FHLB of Seattle or the FHLB system in general, may materially impair the Company’s ability to meet its growth plans or to meet short and long term liquidity demands. Changes in accounting standards may impact how the Company reports its financial condition and results of operations The Company’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a restatement of prior period financial statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company had no unresolved staff comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 