ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. In light of the important factors that can materially affect results, including but not limited to those set forth in this paragraph and below, the inclusion of forward-looking information herein should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that our objectives or plans will be achieved; we may encounter competitive, technological, financial, economic and business challenges making it more difficult than expected to continue to sell our products and services; we may be unable to retain existing key sales, technical and management personnel; there may be other material adverse changes in the information technology industry or the economy, or in our operations or business; and any or all of these factors may affect our ability to continue our current sales rate or may result in lower sales volume than currently experienced. Assumptions relating to budgeting, marketing, and other management decisions are subjective in many respects and thus susceptible to interpretations and periodic revisions based on actual experience and business developments, the impact of which may cause us to alter our marketing, capital expenditure or other budgets, which may in turn affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The reader is therefore cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements contained herein, which speak as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not undertake and specifically decline any obligation to update any forward-looking statements or to publicly announce the results of any revisions to any statements to reflect new information or future events or developments. The reader should carefully consider the following risks. In addition the risks described below are not the only risks we face. The risks described below are only the risks that we currently believe are material to our business. However, additional risks not presently known, or risks that are currently believed to be immaterial, may also impair our business operations. 6 The restatements of our consolidated financial statements may subject us to actions or additional litigation which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are restating our consolidated balance sheets for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2006, the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the fiscal years ended October 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005, each of the quarters in fiscal year 2006, and the first three quarters of fiscal year 2007. These restatements may result in civil litigation or other actions which could require us to pay fines, other penalties or damages and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The restatements may also result in negative publicity which may cause us to lose or fail to attract and retain key customers, employees and management personnel as a result of these matters. Our internal control and procedures for financial reporting may not ensure that our public filings include timely and reliable financial information. As discussed in Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures,” we identified and reported to the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and to our independent registered public accounting firm a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, as of October 31, 2007. The material weakness was due to the lack of effective policies and procedures surrounding the review and determination of manufacturing cost which should be allocated to inventory and cost of goods sold which contributed to the understatement of inventory and cost of goods sold and overstatement of general and administrative expenses. As a result of this material weakness, we determined that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of October 31, 2007. The material weakness resulted in adjustments to our inventories, cost of goods sold and general and administrative expense that caused us to restate our audited financial statements for (i) the year ended October 31, 2005, (ii) the year ended October 31, 2006 and the unaudited quarterly financial data for each of the quarters therein, and (iii) the unaudited quarterly financial data for each of the quarters in the nine months ended July 31, 2007. In addition, we restated the “Selected Consolidated Financial Data” in Item 6 for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2006, 2005, 2004, and 2003, and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2006, 2005, 2004, and 2003. The effectiveness of our controls and procedures could be limited by a variety of factors, and the remedial measures that we adopted in response to the weakness identified may not be successful to prevent similar events from recurring. These factors could include the following: • Faulty human judgment and simple error, omission or mistake; • Fraudulent action of an individual or collusion of two or more people; • Inappropriate override of procedures; and • The possibility that our enhanced controls and procedures may still not be adequate to assure the timely and accurate preparation of information and the timely filing of our periodic reports with the SEC. A failure to successfully implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, including any ineffectiveness of the remedial measures we have implemented to address the material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements that would not be prevented or detected or otherwise cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. This, in turn, could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. 7 We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. The market for our products and services is highly competitive. Many of our competitors offer broader product lines and have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us, which could seriously harm our net sales and results of operation. Additionally, our competitors may receive beneficial prices from purchasing component parts in large quantities and may be parties to product and process technology licensing arrangements that are more favorable in terms of pricing and availability than our arrangements. As a result, we may have difficulty increasing or retaining our market share. Rapid change in technology may cause a portion of our inventory to become obsolete. The computer products market is characterized by rapid technological change and the frequent introduction of new products and enhancements. While we strive to maintain a just-in-time inventory system, certain computer products held in our inventory can become obsolete at any given time, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. In particular, the server appliance market is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, potentially short product life cycles, changes in customer demands and evolving industry standards. Our products could be rendered obsolete if products based on new technologies are introduced or new industry standards emerge. New products and product enhancements can require long development and testing periods, which require us to retain, and may require us to hire additional, technically competent personnel. Significant delays in new product releases or significant problems in installing or implementing new products could seriously damage our business. We may experience delays in the scheduled introduction of new and enhanced products. Our future success depends upon our ability to utilize our creative packaging and hardware and software integration skills to combine industry-standard hardware and software to produce low-cost, high-performance products that satisfy our strategic partners’ requirements and achieve market acceptance. We cannot be certain that we will successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. If server appliances are not increasingly adopted as a solution to meet companies’ computer application needs, the market for our products may not grow and the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of lower revenues or reduced investor expectations. We depend on the growing use of server appliances to meet businesses’ computer application needs. The market for server appliance products has only recently begun to develop and it is evolving rapidly. Because this market is new, we cannot predict its potential size or future growth rate with a high degree of certainty. Our revenues may not grow and the market price of our common stock could decline if the server appliance market does not grow rapidly. We believe that our expectations for the growth of the server appliance market may not be fulfilled if customers continue to use general-purpose servers. The role of our products could, for example, be limited if general-purpose servers become better at performing functions currently being performed by server appliances or are offered at a lower cost. This could force us to further lower the prices of our products or result in fewer sales of our products. Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our key senior management, sales, marketing, and manufacturing personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional, qualified personnel. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our senior management personnel including Robert E. Frick and Kevin Murphy, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, respectively. The loss of either of these individuals or other key senior executives could have a material adverse effect on us. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in our industry, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business, or to replace qualified personnel who may leave our employment in the future. There may be significant costs associated with recruiting, hiring and retention of personnel. Periods of contraction in our business may inhibit our ability to attract and retain our personnel. Loss of the services of, or failure to recruit, key design engineers or other technical and management personnel could be significantly detrimental to our product development or other aspects of our business. 8 We are dependent on significant customers. For our fiscal year ended October 31, 2007, we had generated approximately $11.7 million or 50% of our total net revenues from contracts with several significant customers. Future revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected should these customers reduce their purchases, eliminate product lines or choose not to continue to buy products and services from us. Given the nature of the products manufactured by us as well as the delivery schedules established by our partners, revenue and accounts receivable concentration by any single customer will fluctuate from quarter to quarter. If we are unable to continue to participate in government contract programs or if government contracting policies are changed, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Additionally, most government contracts are subject to modification or termination in the event of changes in funding and our contractual costs and revenues are subject to adjustment as a result of governmental audits. A significant amount of our revenues are derived from sales made through major procurement programs awarded by the government. If we are unable to renew or replace existing contracts our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate. Our operating results have in the past fluctuated from quarter to quarter and we expect this trend to continue in the future. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be volatile. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of stock, many companies have been the object of securities class action litigation. If we are sued in a securities class action, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our common stock may be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which will be beyond our control that may prevent our stockholders from reselling our Common Stock at a profit. The securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in the past and the market prices of the securities of technology companies have been especially volatile. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. Investors may be unable to resell their shares of our common stock for a profit. The decline in the market price of our common stock and market conditions generally could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital, to complete future acquisitions of or investments in other businesses and to attract and retain qualified technical and sales and marketing personnel. If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The listing of our shares of common stock was moved from the Nasdaq National Market to the Nasdaq Small Cap Market on June 30, 2003. Effective September 13, 2005, the Nasdaq Small Cap Market was renamed the Nasdaq Capital Market. If we are unable to satisfy the Nasdaq Capital Market’s continued listing criteria in the future, our common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. In August 2006, we announced that we received notice, under Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4) (the “Rule”), that our common stock was subject to potential delisting from the Nasdaq National Market because the bid price of our common stock closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for 30 consecutive business days prior to August 8, 2006. Under Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(D), we were granted an initial 180 calendar days, or until February 5, 2007, to regain compliance. Although we were able to regain compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4), we cannot guarantee that we will not receive another notice in the future. If our common stock were delisted from Nasdaq, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain quotations as to the price of our common stock. Additionally, if our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. 9 We may issue additional shares of stock and dilute your ownership percentage. We may issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock to raise additional capital or finance acquisitions, or upon the exercise or conversion of outstanding options and warrants. Any issuances of additional shares of stock would dilute your ownership percentage in us. Future sales of our common stock in the public market may adversely affect our stock price. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 