ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the Company. Investors are encouraged to review the following risk factors in detail prior to investing in the Company. Risks Related to Our Business We are presently generating minimal revenue. We cannot assure you that we will ever be able to generate significant revenue, attain or maintain profitable operations, or successfully implement our business plan or current development opportunities. As of June 30, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $29,281,301. Until we are able to generate significant revenue from our business activities, we expect to continue to incur operating losses and will need to find sources of significant, immediate additional capital to offset such losses to continue operations. The likelihood of our success must be considered in view of the expenses, difficulties and delays we have encountered, and may encounter in the future. Our profitability is dependent on successfully relocating and restarting our production facility. We cannot assure you when our new production facility will begin operations, or that we will successfully meet any or all of these goals. We need additional capital to continue our business. Until such time we resume operations and generate a profit, we will continue to require additional capital to continue our business, the receipt of which cannot be assured. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends to a significant degree on our ability to obtain sufficient and timely future financing. Our long-term capital needs are subject to our ability to raise additional capital and to generate adequate revenue from our products, neither of which can be assured. We may seek additional funds through an additional offering of our equity securities or by incurring indebtedness. We cannot assure you that any additional funds will be available or that sufficient funds will be available to us or that funds will be available in a timely way. Additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us or our security holders. Any future capital that is available may be raised on terms that are dilutive to our security holders. Our production activities are currently not operating, and will not achieve our short-term expected production volumes. HDIP suspended production activities on March 29, 2012 and has not determined where and when it will be able to resume production. The Company is working to overcome the obstacles posed by being shut down and we cannot guarantee that we can get production started in the next few months. Actual results may differ materially from those predicted and changes in the circumstances on which we base our predictions could materially affect our actual results. We have had losses since our inception. We expect losses to continue in the near future and there is a risk we may never become profitable. We have incurred losses and experienced negative operating cash flows since inception. While we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements, we expect our revenues to continue to grow in the coming quarters once operations restart, which will produce gross profits in such amounts so as to more than cover our operating expenses. Actual results may differ materially from those predicted and changes in the circumstances upon which we base our predictions could materially affect our actual results. Our independent registered public accounting firm, Moquist Thorvilson Kaufmann & Pieper LLC, has expressed doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which may hinder our ability to obtain future financing. Moquist Thorvilson Kaufmann & Pieper LLC, in its report of independent registered public accounting firm for the years ended June 30, 2012, has expressed “substantial doubt” as to our ability to continue as a going concern based on our net losses and negative cash flows in fiscal year 2012, and a working capital deficit at June 30, 2012. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of that uncertainty. If we are unable to manage our growth, our growth prospects may be limited and our future profitability may be adversely affected. We intend to expand our recycling programs and our manufacturing capability. Rapid expansion may strain our managerial, financial and other resources. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our systems, procedures, controls and management resources also may not be adequate to support our future operations. We will need to continually improve our operational, financial and other internal systems to manage our growth effectively, and any failure to do so may lead to inefficiencies and redundancies, and result in reduced growth prospects and profitability. The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to secure material to reprocess. Our ability to generate revenue depends upon our ability to secure scrap recyclable plastic (PET and HDPE). There is a world-wide market for these materials, and the Company faces competition from China and other low-cost users. To the extent that we are unable to secure enough supply, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We may encounter potential environmental liability which our insurance may not cover. We may, in the future, receive citations or notices from governmental authorities that our operations are not in compliance with our permits or certain applicable regulations, including various transportation, environmental or land use laws and regulations. Should we receive such citations or notices, we would generally seek to work with the authorities to resolve the issues raised by such citations or notices. There can be no assurance, however, that we will always be successful in this regard, and the failure to resolve a significant issue could result in adverse consequences to us. While we maintain insurance, such insurance is subject to various deductible and coverage limits and certain policies exclude coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. There can be no assurance that insurance will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, that the possible types of liabilities that may be incurred by us will be covered by our insurance, that our insurance carriers will be able to meet their obligations under their policies or that the dollar amount of such liabilities will not exceed our policy limits. An uninsured claim, if successful and of significant magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We will need to hire additional employees as we grow. We will need to hire employees to restart our facility and hire additional employees to implement our long-term business plan. In order to continue to grow effectively and efficiently, we will need to implement and improve our operational, financial and management information systems and controls and to train, motivate and manage our employees. We intend to review continually and upgrade our management information systems and to hire additional management and other personnel in order to maintain the adequacy of its operational, financial and management controls. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to meet these objectives. We may be unable to obtain and maintain licenses or permits, zoning, environmental and/or other land use approvals that we need to use a landfill and operate our plants. These licenses or permits and approvals are difficult and time-consuming to obtain and renew, and elected officials and citizens’ groups frequently oppose them. Failure to obtain and maintain the permits and approvals we need to own or operate our plants, including increasing their capacity, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. We will need to obtain new permits and required approvals in connection with the opening of our new production facility, prior to the operations of such facility. Changes in environmental regulations and enforcement policies could subject us to additional liability and adversely affect our ability to continue certain operations. Because the environmental industry continues to develop rapidly, we cannot predict the extent to which our operations may be affected by future enforcement policies as applied to existing laws, by changes to current environmental laws and regulations, or by the enactment of new environmental laws and regulations. Any predictions regarding possible liability under such laws are complicated further by current environmental laws which provide that we could be liable, jointly and severally, for certain activities of third parties over whom we have limited or no control. If environmental regulation enforcement is relaxed, the demand for our products may decrease. The demand for our services is substantially dependent upon the public’s concern with, and the continuation and proliferation of, the laws and regulations governing the recycling of plastic. A decrease in the level of public concern, the repeal or modification of these laws, or any significant relaxation of regulations relating to the recycling of plastic would significantly reduce the demand for our services and could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We depend upon key personnel and we must hire and retain qualified personnel to be successful. We are highly dependent on a limited number of key management personnel, particularly our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, Kenneth Brimmer, and our HDIP Chief Operating Office Adam Mosier. We do not have key-person life insurance on these key personnel. Our future success will depend on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel. We also depend upon consultants for services related to important aspects of our business, such as marketing, regulatory compliance and payer reimbursement. We compete with other companies and organizations for the services of qualified consultants. The loss of key personnel or the availability of consultants, or an inability to hire or retain qualified personnel or consultants, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Other Risks We issued shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and common stock to investors in each of the August 2003 and February 2004 Private Placements. As a result of the voting rights inherent in the Series A Preferred Stock and common stock and certain provisions of the Shareholders’ Agreement entered into in connection with such placements, we may not enter into certain transactions without the consent of the holders of a majority of the Series A Preferred Stock purchased in these Placements. In addition, our Articles of Incorporation provide that our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, with each class elected in successive years for a term of three years. This provision of our Articles of Incorporation and the concentration of ownership following the Placement may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or changes in our Board of Directors or management. Our securities are illiquid and will be subject to rules relating to “penny stocks.” On March 17, 2003, we requested that our securities be withdrawn from The Nasdaq SmallCap Market. Since March 2011, our securities have been quoted on the OTCQB tier of the OTC market under the symbol “HDII” for our common stock. There can be no assurance that any market will continue to exist for our securities, or that our securities may be sold without a significant negative impact on the price per share. The Securities Enforcement Penny Stock Act of 1990 requires specific disclosure to be made available in connection with trades in the stock of companies defined as “penny stocks.” The Commission has adopted regulations that generally define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Such exceptions include any equity security listed on NASDAQ and any equity security issued by an issuer that has (i) net tangible assets of at least $2,000,000, if such issuer has been in continuous operation for three years; (ii) net tangible assets of at least $5,000,000, if such issuer has been in continuous operation for less than three years; or (iii) average annual revenue of at least $6,000,000, if such issuer has been in continuous operation for less than three years. Unless an exception is available, the regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith as well as the written consent of the purchaser of such security prior to engaging in a penny stock transaction. The regulations on penny stocks limit the number of brokers that trade our common stock, and may limit the ability of the purchasers of our securities to sell their securities in the secondary marketplace. Our common stock is currently considered a penny stock and the Company does not believe our common stock will cease being considered a penny stock in the near future. Our stock prices may be depressed and our shareholders may experience significant dilution upon the exercise of certain outstanding warrants. As of September 17, 2012, we have a total of 34,710,313 shares of common stock, which may be issued upon exercise of various options or warrants. As of September 17, 2012, we also have 7,336,680 shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of our 611,390 outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. We have also registered all the shares of our common stock issuable through our 1995 Long-Term Incentive and Stock Option Plan and 750,000 shares of our common stock issuable through our 1998 Stock Option Plan. We have also registered 287,500 shares purchasable through the exercise of all other outstanding options and warrants. At any time our common stock trades at prices in excess of the exercise or conversion price of the options or warrants, it is possible that the holders of those options or warrants may exercise their conversion or purchase privileges. If any of these events occur, the number of shares of our outstanding common stock could increase substantially, and th e shares issued could be traded on the market. This increase, in turn, could dilute future earnings per share, if any, and could depress the market value of our common stock. We cannot predict the extent to which the dilution, the availability of a large amount of shares for sale, and the possibility of additional issuances and sales of our common stock will negatively affect the trading price of our common stock or the liquidity of our common stock. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that profits, if any, received from operations will be devoted to our future operations. We are subject to certain provisions, which could impede takeovers by third parties even if such a change of control might be beneficial to our shareholders. We have established three classes of directors with staggered terms of office, supermajority voting requirements for business combinations, and the right of the Board of Directors to issue, without shareholder approval, preferred stock on terms set by the Board. We are also subject to Minnesota laws that could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control, including Sections 302A.671 and 302A.673 of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act, which, among other things, prohibit a Minnesota corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested shareholder for a period of four years from the date when the person became an interested shareholder unless certain conditions are met. Minnesota law and our Articles of Incorporation impose limitations on the liability of our directors to our shareholders. Our Articles of Incorporation provide, among other things, that directors, including a person deemed to be a director under applicable law, are not to be personally liable to us or our shareholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except to the extent provided by applicable law (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to us or our shareholders, (ii) for acts or omissions, not in good faith or that involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Sections 302A.559 or 80A.23 of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act, as amended, (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit, or (v) for any act or omission occurring prior to the date that the applicable articles became effective. Our Articles further provide that if the Minnesota Business Corporation Act is amended to authorize the further elimination or limitation of the liability of directors, then the liability of our directors will be eliminated or limited to the fullest extent permitted by the Minnesota Business Corporation Act, as so amended. 