ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to all other information provided to you in this document. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial also may become important factors that affect our company. Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future results difficult to predict and may cause our operating results to fall below expectations. Although we recognized net income of $242.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, we incurred a net loss of $20.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, and a net loss of $22.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and we may incur net losses in the future. We may also have fluctuations in revenues, expenses and losses due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • demand for and market acceptance of our hosting and network products; • our ability to retain key employees that maintain relationships with our customers; • the duration of the sales cycle for our services; • changes in customers’ budgets for information technology purchases and in the timing of their purchasing decisions; • the announcement or introduction of new or enhanced services by our competitors; • acquisitions and dispositions we may make; • our ability to implement internal systems for reporting, order processing, purchasing, billing and general accounting, among other functions; • our ability to meet performance standards under our agreements with our customers; • changes in the prices we pay for utilities, local access connections, Internet connectivity, and longhaul backbone connections; • the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures, including costs relating to the expansion of operations, and of the replacement or upgrade of our network and hosting infrastructure; and • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Accordingly, our results of operations for any period may not be comparable to the results of operations for any other period and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. 12 Table of Contents Demand for our services is vulnerable to economic downturns. If general economic conditions continue to weaken, then our revenues and our financial condition may materially decline. We are vulnerable to general downturns in the domestic and international economies. Due to the ongoing economic downturn, demand for our services may decrease as our customers face a deterioration of their businesses or decide to delay capital spending out of uncertainty regarding the future. In addition, our customers may find it more difficult to raise capital in the future due to substantial limitations on the availability of credit and may be forced to delay upgrades to their IT infrastructure. Furthermore, our customers may demand better pricing terms and their ability to timely pay our invoices may be affected by an increasingly weakened economy. A continued deterioration of the economy could also result in a number of our customers facing bankruptcy. As a result, customers may reduce the services they purchase from us, merge with competitors or enter into bankruptcy, any of which could adversely affect our revenues. If the economy weakens further, then our revenues and overall financial condition may be adversely affected. We operate in a rapidly evolving industry, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict. We operate in an industry characterized by rapid technological innovation, changing client needs, evolving industry standards and frequent introductions of new products and services. Our success depends on our ability to implement managed, network and cloud services that anticipate and respond to rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry developments, and client needs. As we encounter new client requirements and increasing competitive pressures, we will likely be required to modify, enhance, reposition or introduce new solutions and service offerings. We may not be successful in doing so in a timely, cost-effective and appropriately responsive manner, or at all. All of these factors make it difficult to predict our future operating results, which may impair our ability to manage our business and our investors’ ability to assess our prospects. Our failure to meet performance standards under our customer contracts could result in our customers terminating their relationships with us or our customers being entitled to receive financial compensation, which could lead to reduced revenues. Our agreements with our customers contain various guarantees regarding our performance and our levels of service. If we fail to provide the levels of service or performance required by our agreements, our customers may be able to receive service credits for their accounts and other financial compensation, as well as terminate their relationship with us. In addition, any inability to meet our service level commitments or other performance standards could reduce the confidence of our customers and could consequently impair our ability to obtain and retain customers, which would adversely affect both our ability to generate revenues and our operating results. We depend on a number of third-party providers, and the loss of, or problems with, one or more of these providers may cause financial losses, impede our growth or cause us to lose customers. We are dependent on third-party providers to supply products and services. For example, we lease or otherwise procure equipment from equipment providers, bandwidth capacity from telecommunications network providers in the quantities and quality we require, data center space from third party landlords, power services from local utilities and other energy suppliers, and we source equipment maintenance through third parties. While we have entered into various agreements for equipment, carrier line capacity, data center space, power services, and maintenance, any failure to obtain equipment, additional capacity or space, power services, or maintenance, if required, would impede the growth of our business, harm our reputation and cause our financial results to suffer. The equipment that we purchase could be deficient in some way, thereby affecting our products and services. Our customers that use the equipment and facilities we lease or the services of these telecommunication providers may in the future experience difficulties due to failures unrelated to our systems. Additionally, any one of these third-party providers could suffer financial failure and, as a result, become incapable of supplying products and services to us. If, for any reason, these providers fail to provide the required services to us or our customers or suffer other failures, we may incur financial losses and our customers may lose confidence in our company, and we may not be able to retain these customers. 13 Table of Contents Our indebtedness, ability to repay or refinance, could limit our ability to operate our business successfully. As of December 31, 2009, the total principal amount of our debt, including capital and financing method lease obligations was $617.5 million, of which $305.9 million represented the book value of our $345.0 million Convertible Notes due in May 2012. In addition, we expect from time to time to continue to incur additional indebtedness and other liabilities in the future. If we incur additional indebtedness or if we use more cash than we generate in the future, then the possibility that we may not have cash sufficient to pay, when due, the outstanding amount of our indebtedness will increase. If we do not have sufficient cash available to repay our debt obligations when they mature, we will have to refinance such obligations or we could be in default under the terms of our debt obligations, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in such refinancing or that the terms of any refinancing will be acceptable to us. This also means that we will need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, reducing the funds available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, sales and marketing initiatives, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes. Our debt agreements also contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to incur more debt, pay dividends and make distributions, make certain investments, repurchase stock, create liens, enter into transactions with affiliates, make capital expenditures, merge or consolidate, and transfer or sell assets without obtaining the approval of the lender. In addition, some of our debt agreements contain financial covenants that require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum performance levels. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could trigger cross-defaults and acceleration of repayment obligations. We may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms to meet our future capital needs. If we do not have sufficient cash flow from our operations, we may need to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings in the future in order to meet our operating and capital needs. We may not be able to secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all, at the time when we need such funding. If we are unable to raise additional funds, we may not be able to pursue our growth strategy and our business could suffer. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. In addition, any debt financing that we may secure in the future could have restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Furthermore, if we decide to raise funds through debt or convertible debt financings, we may be unable to meet our interest or principal payments. We may make acquisitions or enter into joint ventures or strategic alliances, each of which is accompanied by inherent risks. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may make acquisitions or investments or enter into joint ventures or strategic alliances with other companies. Risks commonly encountered in such transactions include: • the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the combined companies; • the risk that we may not be able to integrate the acquired services, products, or technologies with our current services, products, and technologies; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business; • the diversion of management attention from our existing business; • the inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel; 14 Table of Contents • the inability of management to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful integration of acquired businesses; • difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures, and policies; • the impairment of relationships with employees, suppliers, and customers as a result of any integration; • the loss of an acquired or existing base of customers and accompanying revenue; • the assumption of leased facilities or other long-term commitments, or the assumptions of unknown liabilities, that could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and cash flow; and • dilution to our stockholders. As a result of these potential problems and risks, businesses that we may acquire or invest in may not produce the revenue, earnings, or business synergies that we anticipated. These potential problems and risks may have an adverse impact on both our ability to provide services to our customers and our relationships with our customers. In addition, we cannot be assured that any potential transaction will be successfully identified and completed or that, if completed, the acquired businesses or investment will generate sufficient revenue to offset the associated costs or other potential harmful effects on our business. A material reduction in revenue from our largest customer or the loss of other key customers could harm our financial results to the extent not offset by cost reductions or additional revenue from new or other existing customers. Thomson Reuters accounted for approximately 7% of our revenue in 2007, 2008, and 2009. Investment companies, banks and other financial services companies, excluding Thomson Reuters, accounted for approximately 17% of our revenue in 2007 and 19% of our revenue in 2008 and 2009. The loss of Thomson Reuters or any of our other key customers, including our customers in the financial sector, due to the acquisition of such customers, their financial failure or bankruptcy, adverse economic or other reasons, or a considerable reduction in the amount of our services that these customers purchase, could materially reduce our revenues which, to the extent not offset by cost reductions or revenue from new or other existing customers, could materially reduce our cash flows and adversely affect our financial position. This may limit our ability to raise capital or fund our operations, working capital needs, and capital expenditures in the future. Our operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain peering arrangements with Internet Service Providers on favorable terms. We enter into peering agreements with Internet Service Providers throughout our market which allow us to access the Internet and exchange traffic transparently with these providers. Previously, many providers agreed to exchange traffic without charging each other. However, some providers that previously offered peering transparency have reduced peering relationships or are seeking to impose charges for transit, especially for unbalanced traffic offered and received by us with these peering partners. For example, several network operators with large numbers of individual users claim that they should be able to charge network operators and businesses that send traffic to those users. Increases in costs associated with Internet and exchange traffic could have an adverse effect on our business. If we are not able to maintain our peering relationships on favorable terms, we may not be able to provide our customers with affordable services, which would adversely affect our results from operations. 15 Table of Contents Failures in our products or services, including our network, hosting and colocation services, could disrupt our ability to provide services, increase our capital costs, result in a loss of customers, or otherwise negatively affect our business. Our ability to implement our business plan successfully depends upon our ability to provide high quality, reliable services. Interruptions in our ability to provide our services to our customers or failures in our products or services, through the occurrence of a natural disaster, human error, component or system failure, extreme temperature, or other unanticipated problem, could adversely affect our customers’ businesses and our business and reputation. For example, problems at one or more of our data center facilities could result in service interruptions or failures or could cause significant equipment damage. In addition, our network could be subject to unauthorized access, computer viruses, and other disruptive problems caused by customers, employees, or others. Unauthorized access, computer viruses, or other disruptive problems could lead to interruptions, delays, or cessation of service to our customers. In addition, we may be unable to implement disaster recovery or security measures in a timely manner or, if and when implemented, these measures may not be sufficient or could be circumvented through the reoccurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem, or as a result of accidental or intentional actions. Resolving network failures or alleviating security problems may also require interruptions, delays, or cessation of service to our customers. Accordingly, failures in our products and services, including problems at our data centers, network interruptions, or breaches of security on our network may result in significant liability, penalties, a loss of customers, and damage to our reputation. Our operations may be harmed and we could be subject to regulatory penalties and litigation if our network security is breached by unauthorized third parties. If unauthorized third parties breach the security measures on our network, we could be subject to liability and could face reduced customer confidence in our services. Unauthorized access could also potentially jeopardize the security of confidential information of our customers or our customers’ end-users, which might expose us to liability from customers and the government agencies that regulate us, including under an increasing number of information security and privacy laws, as well as deter potential customers from purchasing our services. Any internal or external breach in our network could severely harm our business and result in costly litigation and potential liability for us. Although we attempt to limit these risks contractually, there can be no assurance that we will limit the risk or avoid incurring financial penalties. To the extent our customers demand that we accept unlimited liability and to the extent there is a competitive trend to accept it, such a trend could affect our ability to retain these limitations in our contracts at the risk of losing the business. Increased energy costs, power outages, and limited availability of electrical resources may adversely affect our operating results. Our data centers are susceptible to regional costs and supply of power and electrical power outages. We attempt to limit exposure to system downtime by using backup generators and power supplies. However, we may not be able to limit our exposure entirely even with these protections in place. In addition, our energy costs can fluctuate significantly or increase for a variety of reasons including increased pressure on legislators to pass green legislation. As energy costs increase, we may not always be able to pass on the increased costs of energy to our customers, which could harm our business. Power and cooling requirements at our data centers are also increasing as a result of the increasing power demands of today’s servers. Since we rely on third parties to provide our data centers with power sufficient to meet our customers’ power needs, our data centers could have a limited or inadequate amount of electrical resources. Our customers’ demand for power may also exceed the power capacity in our older data centers, which may limit our ability to fully utilize these data centers. This could adversely affect our relationships with our customers and hinder our ability to run our data centers, which could harm our business. 16 Table of Contents Concerns about the environmental impacts of greenhouse gas emissions and the global climate change may result in environmental taxes, charges, regulatory schemes, assessments or penalties, which could restrict or negatively impact our operations or reduce our profitability. The impacts of human activity on global climate change have attracted considerable public and scientific attention, as well as the attention of the United States and other governments. Efforts are being made to reduce greenhouse emissions and energy consumption, including those from coal combustion by power plants. We rely on power from these power plants, and the added cost of any environmental regulation, taxes, charges, assessments or penalties levied or imposed on these power plants could be passed on to us, increasing the cost to run our data centers and reducing our profitability. There are a number of state and federal legislative and environmental regulatory initiatives, as well as those internationally, that could restrict or negatively impact our operations or increase our energy costs. Additionally, environmental regulation, taxes, charges, assessments or penalties could be levied or imposed directly on us. Any enactment of laws or passage of regulations regarding greenhouse gas emissions by the United States, or any domestic or foreign jurisdiction we perform business in, could adversely effect our operations and financial results. If we are unable to recruit or retain qualified personnel, our business could be harmed. We must continue to identify, hire, train, and retain IT professionals, technical engineers, operations employees, and sales and senior management personnel who maintain relationships with our customers and who can provide the technical, strategic, and marketing skills required for our company to grow. There is a shortage of qualified personnel in these fields, and we compete with other companies for the limited pool of these personnel, including without limitation, candidates for our open chief executive officer position. The failure to recruit and retain necessary technical, managerial, sales, and marketing personnel, including but not limited to members of our executive team, could harm our business and our ability to grow our company. Our failure to implement our growth strategy successfully could harm our business. Our growth strategy includes increasing revenue from our managed hosting, colocation and network services. We seek to sell managed hosting, colocation, and network services to our customers, thereby strengthening the customer relationship. While initially customers may only purchase one or two services, we believe that once the customer sees the benefit of our infrastructure offerings to their business they will purchase additional services. We have developed new data center capabilities as part of our growth strategy. If we do not have sufficient customer demand in the markets to support the new data centers we have built, our financial results may be harmed. There is no assurance that we will be able to implement these initiatives in a timely or cost effective manner, and this failure to implement our growth strategy could cause our operations and financial results to be negatively affected. We have agreed to certain indemnification obligations which, if we are required to perform, may negatively affect our operations. In connection with our sale of the assets related to our content delivery network, we agreed to indemnify the purchaser for certain losses that it may incur due to a breach of our representations and warranties. If we are required to perform such obligations should they arise, any actions we are required to take or payments we are required to make could harm our operations and prevent us from being able to engage in favorable business activities, consummate strategic acquisitions or otherwise fund capital needs. We may be liable for the material that content providers distribute over our network. The law relating to the liability of private network operators for information carried on, stored, or disseminated through their networks is still unsettled. We may become subject to legal claims relating to the content disseminated on our network. For example, lawsuits may be brought against us claiming that material on our 17 Table of Contents network on which someone relied was inaccurate. Claims could also involve matters such as defamation, invasion of privacy, and copyright infringement. If we need to take costly measures to reduce our exposure to these risks, or are required to defend ourselves against such claims, our financial results could be negatively affected. Difficulties presented by international economic, political, legal, accounting, tax and business factors could harm our business in international markets. For the year ended December 31, 2009, 17% of our total revenue was generated in countries outside of the United States. Some risks inherent in conducting business internationally include: • regulatory, tax, licensing, political or other business restrictions or requirements; • longer payment cycles and problems collecting accounts receivable; • uncertain regulations; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • our ability to secure and maintain the necessary physical and telecommunications infrastructure; • challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • more restrictive laws or regulations, or more restrictive interpretations of existing laws or regulations, such as those related to content distributed over the Internet. Any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business. Our inability to renew our data center leases, or renew on favorable terms, could have a negative impact on our financial results. All of our data centers are leased and have lease terms that expire between 2011 and 2031. The majority of these leases provide us with the opportunity to renew the lease at our option for periods generally ranging from five to ten years. Many of these options however, if renewed, provide that rent for the renewal period will be equal to the fair market rental rate at the time of renewal. If the fair market rental rates are significantly higher than our current rental rates, we may be unable to offset these costs by charging more for our services, which could have a negative impact on our financial results. Additionally, the terms of a renewal may cause different accounting treatment for a lease, which could cause changes to our total debt position and have an adverse impact on our reported financial position or debt covenants. Also, it is possible that a landlord may insist on other financially unfavorable renewal terms or, where no further option to renew exists, elect not to renew all together. Our right to undisturbed use of our leased data centers may be challenged if our landlords’ lenders exercise their rights due to our landlords’ default on their debt. We lease the land and buildings which support our data centers. Continued economic degradation may negatively impact and create greater pressure in the commercial real estate market causing higher incidences of landlord default or lender foreclosure of properties, including perhaps the properties which support our data centers. While in most cases we maintain certain non-disturbance rights, it is not certain that such rights will in all cases be upheld, thereby jeopardizing our continued right of occupancy in such instances. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely upon a combination of internal and external nondisclosure safeguards including confidentiality agreements, as well as trade secret and other intellectual property laws and vehicles to protect our proprietary rights. We cannot, however, assure that the steps taken by us in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. We also are subject to the risk of litigation alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Any such claims could require us to spend significant sums in litigation, pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property, or acquire licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of the alleged infringement. Our investment portfolio is subject to market fluctuations which may affect our liquidity. Historically, we have invested in AAA-rated U.S. government agencies, AAA-rated money market funds meeting certain criteria, and A1/P1 rated commercial paper. The market value of these investments may decline due to general credit, liquidity, market, interest rate, and issuer default risks, which may be directly or indirectly affected by the ongoing credit crisis that has affected various sectors of the financial markets causing credit and liquidity issues. If the ongoing global credit crisis persists or intensifies, declines in the market values of our investments in the future could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Our Industry The markets for our hosting, network and professional services are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively. The markets for our hosting, network, and professional services are extremely competitive. We expect that competition will intensify in the future, and we may not have the financial resources, technical expertise, sales, and marketing abilities or support capabilities to compete successfully in these markets. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and greater market presence, lower costs of capital, and greater engineering and marketing capabilities and financial, technological, and personnel resources than we do. As a result, as compared to us, our competitors may: • develop and expand their networking infrastructures and service offerings more efficiently or more quickly; • adapt more rapidly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements; • take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more effectively; • develop products and services that are superior to ours or have greater market acceptance; • adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the promotion, marketing, sale, research, and development of their products and services; • make more attractive price and performance offers to our existing and potential employees; • establish cooperative relationships with each other or with third parties; and • take advantage of existing relationships with customers more effectively or exploit their more widely recognized brand name to market and sell their services. 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to compete effectively, this could result in an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. If the markets for outsourced information technology services decline, there may be insufficient demand for our services and, as a result, our business strategy and objectives may fail. Our solutions are designed to enable a customer to focus on its core business while we manage and ensure the quality of its information technology, or IT, infrastructure. Businesses may believe the risk of outsourcing is greater than the risk of managing their IT operations themselves. If businesses do not continue to recognize the high cost and inefficiency of managing IT themselves, including the difficulties of upgrading technology, training and retaining skilled personnel with domain expertise, and matching IT cost with actual benefits, they may not continue to outsource their IT infrastructure to companies within our industry. Additionally, outsourcing may be associated with larger companies, such as HP and IBM, and we may not be as successful as these companies. As a result of these risks, our business may suffer and it could adversely affect our business strategy and objectives and our ability to generate revenues. Our failure to achieve desired price levels could affect our ability to achieve profitability or positive cash flow. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience pricing pressure for some of the services that we offer. Prices for Internet services have decreased in recent years and may decline in the future. In addition, by bundling their services and reducing the overall cost of their services, telecommunications companies that compete with us may be able to provide customers with reduced communications costs in connection with their hosting, data networking, or Internet access services, thereby significantly increasing pricing pressure on us. We may not be able to offset the effects of any such price reductions even with an increase in the number of our customers, higher revenues from enhanced services, cost reductions, or otherwise. In addition, we believe that the data networking and VPN and Internet access and hosting industries are likely to continue to encounter consolidation which could result in greater efficiencies in the future. Increased price competition or consolidation in these markets could result in erosion of our revenues and operating margins and could have a negative impact on our profitability. Furthermore, larger consolidated telecommunications providers have indicated that they want to start billing companies delivering services over the Internet a premium charge for priority access to connected customers. If these providers are able to charge companies such as us for this, our costs will increase, and this could affect our results of operations. New technologies could displace our services or render them obsolete. New technologies or industry standards, including those technologies protected by intellectual property rights, have the potential to replace or provide lower cost alternatives to our hosting, networking, and Internet access services. The adoption of such new technologies or industry standards could render our data center technology and services obsolete, unmarketable, cause impairment of our existing assets, or require us to incur significant capital expenditures to expand and upgrade our technology to meet new standards. In addition, government regulation may adversely affect the demand for hosting services. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify new service opportunities successfully or, if identified, be able to develop and bring new products and services to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, we cannot guarantee that services or technologies developed by others will not render our current and future services non-competitive or obsolete or that our current and future services will achieve or sustain market acceptance or be able to effectively address the compatibility and interoperability issues raised by technological changes or new industry standards. If we fail to anticipate the emergence of, or obtain access to, a new technology or industry standard, we may incur increased costs if we seek to use those technologies and standards, or our competitors that use such technologies and standards may use them more cost-effectively than we do. 20 Table of Contents The data networking and Internet access industries are highly regulated in many of the countries in which we currently operate or plan to provide services, which could restrict our ability to conduct business in the United States and internationally. We are subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we provide services. Local laws and regulations, and their interpretation and enforcement, differ significantly among those jurisdictions, and can change significantly over time. Future regulatory, judicial, and legislative changes or interpretations may have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver services within various jurisdictions. For example, the European Union enacted a data retention system that, once implemented by individual member states, will involve requirements to retain certain IP data that could have an impact on our operations in Europe. Moreover, national regulatory frameworks that are consistent with the policies and requirements of the World Trade Organization have only recently been, or are still being, put in place in many countries. Accordingly, many countries are still in the early stages of providing for and adapting to a liberalized telecommunications market. As a result, in these markets we may encounter more protracted and difficult procedures to obtain licenses. Within the United States, the government continues to evaluate the data networking and Internet access industries. The Federal Communications Commission has a number of on-going proceedings that could affect our ability to provide services. Such regulations and policies may complicate, or make more costly, our efforts to provide services in the future, including increasing the costs of certain services that we purchase from regulated providers. Our operations are dependent on licenses and authorizations from governmental authorities in most of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate or plan to operate, and with respect to a limited number of our services, in the United States. These licenses and authorizations generally will contain clauses pursuant to which we may be fined or our license may be revoked on short notice. Consequently, we may not be able to obtain or retain the licenses necessary for our operations or be able to retain these licenses at costs which allow us to compete effectively. A number of our customers are banks, brokerage firms, investment managers, operators of exchanges or trading systems and other participants in the financial services industry. As a service provider to some of these entities, we currently are subject to regulation and examination by regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our customers. Legislative proposals pending in Congress could subject us to expanded regulation if enacted. More aggressive use of current regulatory powers or the implementation of new regulatory regimes could increase our operating costs, subject us to potential penalties or affect our ability to continue serving the financial services market. In addition, securities trading operations of some securities firms, involving placing servers or leasing server space in the same location at or proximate to exchange facilities, have drawn increased public and regulatory scrutiny and are among the subjects of a broad review of equity market structure recently announced by the SEC. Rulemaking that arises from that review or otherwise could affect the cost, attractiveness or permissibility of certain of our services in ways that we cannot currently predict but that may have an adverse affect on our business, revenues and operating costs. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Sales of a significant amount of our common stock in the public market could reduce our stock price or impair our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. We have approximately 54.9 million shares of common stock outstanding, the majority of which is held by a small number of investment firms, including Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe, or Welsh Carson. As of February 26, 2010, investment partnerships sponsored by Welsh Carson own approximately 28% of our outstanding common stock, and since December 2006, Welsh Carson has distributed over 12.1 million shares of our common stock to its limited partners. These shares may and some have been sold in the public market immediately following such distributions. Also, as of February 26, 2010, Welsh Carson and individuals affiliated with Welsh Carson are entitled to certain registration rights with respect to 14.2 million shares of our common stock held by them. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, including 21 Table of Contents sales following Welsh Carson distributions, or the perception that those sales will occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Those sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity and equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we consider appropriate. Our stock price is subject to significant volatility. Since February 1, 2009, until the present, the closing price per share of our common stock has ranged from a high of $18.02 per share to a low of $5.09 per share. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, subject to significant volatility due to conditions in the technology industry or in the financial markets generally, sales of our securities by significant stockholders and the other risks and uncertainties described or incorporated by reference herein. Our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law contain provisions which may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, including provisions that give the Board of Directors the power to issue shares of preferred stock. We have also chosen to be subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to certain exceptions, prevents a stockholder of more than 15% of a company’s voting stock from entering into business combinations set forth under Section 203 with that company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. As of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, there were no unresolved comments from the Staff of the SEC. 