ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investment in CFS Bancorp, Inc. common stock involves risk. The following discussion highlights those risks management believes are material for us, but does not necessarily include all risks that we may face. Failure to comply with the restrictions and conditions in the informal regulatory agreements that the Company and the Bank entered into with the OTS could result in additional enforcement action against us. Effective March 20, 2009, we entered into informal agreements with the OTS to address certain regulatory matters. Although we expect that these agreements will not have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations, if we fail to comply with the terms and conditions of the agreements, the OTS could take additional enforcement action against us, including the imposition of further operating restrictions. Any additional action could harm our reputation and our ability to retain or attract clients or employees and impact the trading price of our common stock. We operate in a highly regulated industry and may be affected adversely by increased regulatory supervision and scrutiny and changes in laws, rules, and regulations affecting financial institutions. We are, like other federally-charted savings banks, currently subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the OTS and by the FDIC, the insurer of its deposits. CFS Bancorp, like other thrift holding companies, is currently subject to regulation and supervision by the OTS. This regulation and supervision governs the activities in which we may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance fund administered by the FDIC and our clients and depositors rather than our shareholders. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets, determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses, and maintenance of adequate capital levels. These bank regulators possess broad authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law, and given the recent financial crisis in the United States, the trend has been toward increased and more active oversight by regulators. Recently, pursuant to an agreement among various federal financial institution regulators, the FDIC’s authority to investigate banks was significantly expanded. Under the terms of this new agreement, the FDIC will have unlimited authority to make a special examination of any insured depository institution as necessary to determine the condition of such depository institution for insurance purposes. Accordingly, we expect an active supervisory and regulatory environment to continue. In addition, as a result of ongoing challenges facing the United States economy, new laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards have been and may continue to be promulgated, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the issuance of formal or informal enforcement actions or orders. Accordingly, the regulations applicable to the banking industry continue to change and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank Act), a sweeping financial reform bill, was signed into law and will result in a number of new regulations that could significantly impact regulatory compliance costs and the operations of community banks. The Dodd Frank Act includes, among other things, provisions establishing a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, which will have broad authority to develop and implement rules regarding most consumer financial products; provisions affecting corporate governance and executive compensation at all publicly-traded companies; provisions that would broaden the base for FDIC insurance asse ssments and permanently increase FDIC deposit insurance to $250,000; and new restrictions on how mortgage brokers and loan originators may be compensated. The Dodd Frank Act also eliminates the OTS, and transfers supervisory authority for all previous OTS-regulated savings banks, like the Bank, to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and for all thrift holding companies, such as CFS Bancorp, to the Federal Reserve. These provisions, or any other aspects of current proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial industry, if enacted or adopted, may impact the profitability of our business activities or change certain of our business practices, including our ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads, and could expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary cha nges to our operations in order to comply, and could therefore also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, like all U.S. companies who prepare their financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP), we are subject to changes in accounting rules and interpretations. We cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in financial market regulation or accounting rules and interpretations will have on us. Any such changes may negatively affect our financial performance, our ability to expand our products and services, and our ability to increase the value of our business and, as a result, could be materially adverse to our shareholders. In addition, like other federally insured depository institutions, CFS Bancorp and the Bank prepare and publicly report additional financial information under Regulatory Accounting Principles (RAP) and are similarly subject to changes in these rules and interpretations. 20 We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums or special assessments that could adversely affect our earnings. Market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As a result, depository institutions participating in the insurance fund, including the Bank, may be required to pay significantly higher premiums or additional special assessments that could adversely affect our earnings. It is possible that the FDIC may impose additional special assessments in the future as part of its restoration plan. Our ability to pay dividends is restricted. Although we have been paying quarterly dividends regularly since 1998, our ability to pay dividends to shareholders depends upon the prior approval of the OTS pursuant to an informal regulatory agreement with the OTS. Additionally, the Bank is subject to the same restrictions on making dividends to the Company under its informal regulatory agreement with the OTS. Accordingly, we may cease paying dividends to our shareholders. If economic conditions continue to deteriorate, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted as borrowers' ability to repay loans declines and the value of the collateral securing our loans decreases. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including decreases in real estate values, changes in interest rates that cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government, and other significant external events. In addition, we have a significant amount of real estate loans. Accordingly, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of collateral securing our loans. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans. These factors could expose us to an increased risk of loan defaults and losses and have an adverse impact on our earnings. We are subject to lending risk and could suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including those related to dealing with individual borrowers, nonpayment, uncertainties as to the future value of collateral, and changes in economic and industry conditions. We attempt to closely manage our credit risk through prudent loan underwriting and application approval procedures, careful monitoring of concentrations of our loans within specific industries, and periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by third-party loan review specialists. We cannot assure that such approval and monitoring procedures will reduce these credit risks to acceptable tolerance levels. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay their outstanding loans. In the past, we have focused on providing ARMs to decrease the risk related to changes in the interest rate environment; however, these types of loans also involve other risks. As interest rates rise, the borrowers’ payments on an ARM also increase to the extent permitted by the loan terms thereby increasing the potential for default. Also, when interest rates decline substantially, borrowers tend to refinance into fixed-rate loans. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 66% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, commercial real estate (owner occupied, non-owner occupied, and multifamily), commercial construction and land development loans, and commercial participations. These types of loans involve increased risks because the borrower’s ability to repay the loan typically depends on the successful operation of the business or the property securing the loan. Additionally, these loans are made to small- or medium-sized business clients who may be more vulnerable to economic conditions and who may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle. These types of loans are also typically larger than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans or consumer loans. Because our loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and indust rial, commercial real estate (owner occupied, non-owner occupied, and multifamily), commercial construction and land development, and commercial participations, all with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans would result in a reduction in interest income recognized on loans and also could require us to increase the provision for loan losses and increase loan charge-offs, all of which would reduce our net income. All of these could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 21 Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover actual loan losses. In keeping with industry practice, regulatory guidelines, and United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principals (U.S. GAAP), we maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level we believe adequate to absorb credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense that represents our estimate of probable incurred losses within the loan portfolio at each statement of condition date and is based on the review of available and relevant information. The level of the allowance for loan losses reflects our consideration of historical charge-offs and recoveries; levels of and trends in delinquencies, impaired loans, and other classified loans; concentrations of credit within the commercial loan portfolios; volume and type of lending; and current and anticipated economic conditions. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Also, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase our allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income, and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Declines in asset values may result in impairment charges and adversely affect the value of our investments, financial performance, and capital. We maintain an investment portfolio that includes, but is not limited to, government sponsored entity investment securities, mortgage-backed investment securities, and pooled trust preferred investment securities. The market value of investments in our portfolio has become increasingly volatile. The market value of investment securities may be affected by factors other than the underlying performance of the issuer or composition of the bonds themselves, such as ratings downgrades, adverse changes in the business climate, and a lack of liquidity for resales of certain investment securities, as well as specific challenges which may arise in the secondary markets for such investment securities. Quarterly we evaluate investment securities and other assets for impairment indicators. We may be required to record additional impairment charges if our invest ment securities suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to charge against earnings the credit-related portion of the other-than-temporary impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the periods in which the write-offs occur. The requirement to record certain assets and liabilities at fair value may adversely affect our financial results. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we report certain assets, including investment securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value, we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize market data inputs to estimate fair value. Because we carry these assets on our books at their estimated fair value, we may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. Given the continued disruption in the capital markets, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments in future periods with respect to investment securities in our portfolio. The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of our investment securities and our estimation of the anticipated recovery period. Unexpected losses in future reporting periods may require us to establish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. We evaluate our deferred tax assets for recoverability based on all available evidence. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws or variances between our future projected operating performance and our actual results. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In determining the “more likely than not” criterion, we evaluate all positive and negative available evidence as of the end of each reporting period. Future adjustments to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance, if any, will be determined based upon chan ges in the expected realization of the net deferred tax assets. The realization of the deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in either the carryback or carryforward periods under applicable tax laws. Due to significant estimates utilized in establishing the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is reasonably possible that we will be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance in the near term if estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are reduced. Such a charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and capital position. 22 Our operations are subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect financial performance. In addition to other factors, our earnings and cash flows are dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Changes in the general level of interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, influence the amount of interest income that we receive on loans and investment securities and the amount of int erest that we pay on deposits and borrowed funds. Changes in monetary policy and interest rates also can adversely affect: our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits; the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities; and the average duration of our investment securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowed funds increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowed funds. Negative conditions in the general economy and financial services industry may limit our access to additional funding and adversely affect liquidity. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowed funds, and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. General industry factors that could detrimentally affect our access to liquidity sources include severe disruption of the financial markets or negative news and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole, as evidenced by the turmoil in the domestic and worldwide credit markets which occurred in late 2008 and early 2009. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are specific to us, such as a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulator y action against us. We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area with other financial institutions offering products and services similar to those we offer. In our market area, we encounter significant competition from other savings associations, commercial banks, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, investment securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market mutual funds, and other financial intermediaries. Our competitors may have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. We may experience difficulties in managing our growth, and our growth strategy involves risks that may negatively impact our net income. We may expand into additional communities or attempt to strengthen our position in our current market and in surrounding areas by opening new branches and acquiring existing branches of other financial institutions. To the extent that we undertake additional branch openings and acquisitions, we are likely to continue to experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations, which may have an adverse effect on our levels of reported net income, return on average equity, and return on average assets. Other effects of engaging in such growth strategies may include potential diversion of management’s time and attention from other aspects of our business and the general disruption to our business. 23 We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. Like other savings and loan holding companies, we are required by our regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support the growth of our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may elect to raise additional capital for other reasons. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values, and other factors. Should we elect, or be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or investment securities convertible into our common stock, which could dilute your ownership interest in the Company. Although we remain “well capitalized” at December 31, 2010 for regulatory purposes and we have improved our liquidity position and expanded our funding capacity, the future cost and availability of capital may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets, economic conditions, and a number of other factors, many of which lie outside of our control. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed or on terms acceptable to us, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to attract and retain the skilled employees necessary for our business. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key employees. Competition for the best employees in most of our business lines can be intense, and we may not be able to hire or retain the necessary employees for meeting our business goals. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security that could impact our operational capabilities. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our client relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrences of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of client business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial l iability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The trading volume in our common stock has been low, and the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could depress the price of our common stock and make it difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock is listed to trade on the NASDAQ Global Market, but is thinly traded. As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares of common stock on short notice. Additionally, thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock at one time could temporarily depress the market price of our common stock, making it difficult for you to sell your shares and impairing our ability to raise capital. We may be subject to examinations by taxing authorities which could adversely affect our results of operations. Like other for-profit enterprises, in the normal course of business, we may be subject to examinations from federal and state taxing authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments we have made and the businesses in which we are engaged. Recently, federal and state taxing authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. The challenges made by taxing authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in our favor, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 24 