Risk Factors,” inherent in conducting business internationally. Such risks include currency fluctuations and possible nationalization, expropriation, exchange and price controls, changes in the availability of data from public sector sources, limits on providing information across borders and other restrictive governmental actions. Management believes that the risks of nationalization or expropriation are reduced because the Company’s basic service is the creation and dissemination of information, rather than the production of products that require manufacturing facilities or the use of natural resources. However, the formation of, for example, a new government-sponsored regional or global rating agency would pose a risk to MIS’s growth prospects. Management believes that this risk, compared to other regulatory changes under consideration for the credit rating industry, is relatively low because of the likelihood that substantial investments over a sustained period would be required, with uncertainty about the likelihood of financial success for the entity. COMPETITION The MIS business competes with other CRAs and with investment banks and brokerage firms that offer credit opinions and research. Many users of MIS’s ratings also have in-house credit research capabilities. MIS’s largest competitor in the global credit rating business is Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (S&P), a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. There are some rating markets, based on industry, geography and/or instrument type, in which Moody’s has made investments and obtained market positions superior to S&P, while in other markets, the reverse is true. In addition to S&P, MIS’s competitors include Fitch Ratings, Dominion Bond Rating Service Ltd., A.M. Best Company Inc., Japan Credit Rating Agency Ltd., Kroll Bond Rating Agency Inc., Morningstar Inc. and Egan-Jones Ratings Company. In Europe, examples of competitors include Euler Hermes Rating, Feri EuroRating, Creditreform Rating, PSR Rating, ICAP Group and Companhia Portuguesa de Rating. There are additional competitors in other regions and countries, for example, in China where Moody’s operates through a joint venture. These competitors include China Lianhe Credit Rating Co Ltd., Shanghai Brilliance Credit Rating & Investors Service Co Ltd., Dagong Global Credit Rating Co Ltd. and Pengyuan Credit Rating Co Ltd. MA competes broadly in the financial information industry against diversified competitors such as Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, S&P Capital IQ, Fitch Solutions, Dun & Bradstreet, IBM, Wolters Kluwer, Sungard, SAS, Fiserv, MSCI and Markit Group among others. MA’s main competitors within RD&A include S&P Capital IQ, CreditSights, Thomson Reuters, Intex, IHS Global Insight, BlackRock Solutions, FactSet and other smaller boutique providers of fixed income analytics, valuations, economic data and research. In ERS, MA faces competition from both large software providers such as IBM Algorithmics, SunGard, SAS, Oracle, Turaz, Oliver Wyman, Verisk and vari- MOODY’S 2012 10-K 11 Table of Contents ous other smaller vendors and in-house solutions. Within PS, MA competes with Omega Performance, DC Gardner, and a host of financial training and education boutiques, and with Evalueserve, CRISIL Global Research & Analytics, and other providers of outsourced research and consulting services. MOODY’S STRATEGY Moody’s corporate strategy is to be the world’s most respected authority servicing financial risk-sensitive markets. The key aspects to implement this strategy are to: • Defend and enhance the core ratings and research business of MIS • Build MA’s position as a leading provider of risk management solutions to financial institutions • Invest in strategic growth opportunities Moody’s will make investments to defend and enhance its core businesses in an attempt to position the Company to fully capture market opportunities resulting from global debt capital market expansion and increased business investment spending. Moody’s will also make strategic investments to achieve scale in attractive financial information markets, move into attractive product and service adjacencies where the Company can leverage its brand, extend its thought leadership and expand its geographic presence in high growth emerging markets. To broaden the Company’s potential, MA provides a wide range of products and services capabilities to enable financial institutions to better manage risk. As such, MA adds to the Company’s value proposition in three ways. First, MA’s subscription businesses provide a significant base of recurring revenue to offset cyclicality in ratings issuance volumes that can introduce volatility to MIS revenues. Second, MA products and services, such as financial training and advisory services on risk management best practices, provide opportunities for entry into emerging markets before debt capital markets fully develop and present growth opportunities for the ratings business. Finally, MA’s integrated risk management software platform embeds Moody’s solutions deep into the technology infrastructure of banks and insurance companies worldwide. Moody’s invests in initiatives to implement the Company’s strategy, including internally-led organic development and targeted acquisitions. Example initiatives include: • enhancements to ratings quality and product extensions • investments that extend ownership and participation in JVs and strategic alliances • headcount growth to meet customer demand for new products and services • Selective, bolt-on acquisitions that accelerate the ability to grow Moody’s businesses • Expansion in emerging markets REGULATION MIS and many of the securities that it rates are subject to extensive regulation in both the U.S. and in other countries (including by state and local authorities). Thus, existing and proposed laws and regulations can impact the Company’s operations and the markets for securities that it rates. Additional laws and regulations have been adopted but not yet implemented or have been proposed or are being considered. Each of the existing, adopted, proposed and potential laws and regulations can increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may negatively impact Moody’s operations or profitability, the Company’s ability to compete, or result in changes in the demand for credit ratings, in the manner in which ratings are utilized and in the manner in which Moody’s operates. In the EU, in 2009, the European Parliament passed a new regulation (“CRA1”) that establishes an oversight regime for the CRA industry in the European Union. The framework for the EU regulation requires the registration, formal regulation and periodic inspection of CRAs operating in the EU. The EU Regulation also sets out specific requirements for the use of ratings that are produced outside of the EU and are used for regulatory purposes in the EU. Among these is a requirement for the relevant competent authority in the EU and the competent authority of the non-EU jurisdiction where that rating has been produced to enter into a cooperation agreement containing provisions related to the exchange of information and the coordination of supervisory activities. CRA1 became fully effective in September 2010. MIS applied for registration in August 2010 and was granted registration in October 2011. In addition, through a new regulatory instrument (CRA2), the European Securities and Markets Authority was established in January 2011 and has had direct supervisory responsibility for the registered CRA industry in the EU since July 2011. 12 MOODY’S 2012 10-K Table of Contents Finally, in November 2011, the European Commission issued proposed amendments to its existing regulations (generally referred to as CRA3). After a year of dialogue among political institutions, regulatory authorities and market participants, the European Parliament voted on and adopted CRA3 in January 2013. A few additional steps remain in the legislative process before CRA3 is finalized. It is expected that CRA3 will become effective in the second half of 2013. As adopted, the revised regulations, among other things, would: • impose various additional procedural requirements with respect to ratings of sovereign issuers; • require member states to adopt laws imposing liability on CRAs for an intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by the applicable regulations; • impose mandatory rotation requirements on CRAs hired by issuers of securities for ratings of resecuritizations, which may limit the number of years a CRA can issue ratings for such securities of a particular issuer; • impose restrictions on CRAs or their shareholders if certain ownership thresholds are crossed; and • impose additional procedural and substantive requirements on the pricing of services. Certain of the provisions of CRA3 will be subject to ESMA rule-making and it is expected that process will happen within the year. Most of CRA3, however, will become effective 20 days after the text’s official publication. In December 2012, the Staff of the SEC’s Trading and Markets Division published a “Report to Congress on Assigned Credit Ratings.” The delivery of this report, commonly referred to as the Franken Amendment Study, discharged one of the SEC’s obligations under the Financial Reform Act regarding the CRA industry. In the report, the SEC Staff identified several potential courses of action without endorsing any of them and noted that any changes through SEC rulemaking would require additional study of relevant information. In this respect, the SEC recommended that a roundtable be convened so that proponents and critics of the various options could discuss the report and its findings. The timing regarding this roundtable and the remainder of the SEC’s rulemaking under the Financial Reform Act remains uncertain. Other legislation and regulation relating to credit rating and research services is being considered by local, national and multinational bodies and this type of activity is likely to continue in the future. In addition, in certain countries, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies. For example, governments may from time to time establish official rating agencies or credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. If enacted, any such legislation and regulation could change the competitive landscape in which MIS operates. The legal status of rating agencies has been addressed by courts in various decisions and is likely to be considered and addressed in legal proceedings from time to time in the future. Management of the Company cannot predict whether these or any other proposals will be enacted, the outcome of any pending or possible future legal proceedings, or regulatory or legislative actions, or the ultimate impact of any such matters on the competitive position, financial position or results of operations of Moody’s. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Moody’s and its affiliates own and control a variety of intellectual property, including but not limited to proprietary information, trademarks, research, software tools and applications, models and methodologies, databases, domain names, and other proprietary materials that, in the aggregate, are of material importance to Moody’s business. Management of Moody’s believes that each of the trademarks and related corporate names, marks and logos containing the term “Moody’s” are of material importance to the Company. The Company, primarily through MA, licenses certain of its databases, software applications, credit risk models, training courses in credit risk and capital markets, research and other publications and services that contain Intellectual Property to its customers. These licenses are provided pursuant to standard fee-bearing agreements containing customary restrictions and intellectual property protections. In addition, Moody’s licenses certain technology and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by others. Specifically, Moody’s licenses financial information (such as market and index data, financial statement data, third party research, default data, and security identifiers) as well as software development tools and libraries. The Company obtains such technology and intellectual property rights from generally available commercial sources. Most of such technology and intellectual property is available from a variety of sources. Although certain financial information (particularly security identifiers and certain pricing or index data) is available only from a limited number of sources, Moody’s does not believe it is dependent on any one data source for a material aspect of its business. The Company considers its Intellectual Property to be proprietary, and Moody’s relies on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent, non-disclosure and other contractual safeguards for protection. Moody’s also pursues instances of third-party infringement of its Intellectual Property in order to protect the Company’s rights. The Company owns a single, non-material patent. None of the Intellectual Property is subject to a specific expiration date, except to the extent that the copyright in items that the Company authors (such as credit reports, research, and other written opinions) expires pursuant to relevant law, currently 95 years from first publication in the US; and the single patent that Moody’s owns expires in 2028. The names of Moody’s products and services referred to herein are trademarks, service marks or registered trademarks or service marks owned by or licensed to Moody’s or one or more of its subsidiaries. MOODY’S 2012 10-K 13 Table of Contents EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2012 the number of full-time equivalent employees of Moody’s was approximately 6,800. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Moody’s investor relations Internet website is http://ir.moodys.com/. Under the “SEC Filings” tab at this website, the Company makes available free of charge its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and other information statements that the Company files electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s internet site is http://www.sec.gov/. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT NAME, AGE AND POSITION BIOGRAPHICAL DATA Mark E. Almeida, 53President—Moody’s Analytics Mr. Almeida has served as President of Moody’s Analytics since January 2008. Prior to this position, Mr. Almeida was Senior Vice President of Moody’s Corporation from August 2007 to January 2008, Senior Managing Director of the Investor Services Group (ISG) at Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. from December 2004 to January 2008 and was Group Managing Director of ISG from June 2000 to December 2004. Mr. Almeida joined Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. in April 1988 and has held a variety of positions with the company in both the U.S. and overseas. Richard Cantor, 55 Chief Risk Officer Mr. Cantor has served as Chief Risk Officer of Moody’s Corporation since December 2008 and as Chief Credit Officer of Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. since November 2008. From July 2008 to November 2008, Mr. Cantor served as Acting Chief Credit Officer. Prior thereto, Mr. Cantor was Managing Director of Moody’s Credit Policy Research Group from June 2001 to July 2008, after serving as Senior Vice President in the Financial Guarantors Rating Group. Mr. Cantor joined Moody’s in 1997 from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, where he served as Assistant Vice President in the Research Group and was Staff Director at the Discount Window. Prior to the Federal Reserve, Mr. Cantor taught Economics at UCLA and Ohio State and has taught on an adjunct basis at the business schools of Columbia University and New York University. Robert Fauber, 42 Senior Vice President—Corporate Development Mr. Fauber has served as Senior Vice President—Corporate Development of Moody’s Corporation since April 2009 and Head of the MIS Commercial Group since January 2013. Mr. Fauber served as Vice President-Corporate Development from September 2005 to April 2009. Prior to joining Moody’s, Mr. Fauber served in several roles at Citigroup from 1999 to 2005, including most recently, Director of Planning and Business Development for Citigroup’s Alternative Investments division. Prior to that, Mr. Fauber worked as a Director in Corporate Strategy & Business Development for Citigroup and a Vice President and Associate in the Financial Sponsor and Telecom investment banking groups at the firm’s Salomon Smith Barney subsidiary. From 1992-1996, Mr. Fauber worked at NationsBank (now Bank of America), working in the middle market commercial banking group and also ran the firm’s Global Finance college recruiting program in 1997. John J. Goggins, 52 Executive Vice President and GeneralCounsel Mr. Goggins has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and General Counsel since April 2011 and the Company’s Senior Vice President and General Counsel from October 2000 until April 2011. Mr. Goggins joined Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. in February 1999 as Vice President and Associate General Counsel. Prior thereto, he served as counsel at Dow Jones & Company from 1995 to 1999, where he was responsible for securities, acquisitions and general corporate matters. Prior to Dow Jones, he was an associate at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft from 1985 to 1995, where he specialized in mergers and acquisitions. Linda S. Huber, 54 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Ms. Huber has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2005. Prior thereto, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at U.S. Trust Company, a subsidiary of Charles Schwab & Company, Inc., from 2003 to 2005. Prior to U.S. Trust, she was Managing Director at Freeman & Co. from 1998 through 2002. She served PepsiCo as Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Development from 1997 until 1998 and as Vice President and Assistant Treasurer from 1994 until 1997. She served as Vice President in the Energy Investment Banking Group at Bankers Trust Company from 1991 until 1994 and as an Associate in the Energy Group at First Boston Corporation from 1986 through 1990. She also held the rank of Captain in the U.S. Army where she served from 1980 to 1984. 14 MOODY’S 2012 10-K Table of Contents Michel Madelain, 57 President and Chief Operating Officer—Moody’s Investors Service Mr. Madelain has served as President of Moody’s Investors Service Inc. since November 2010 and as Chief Operating Officer since May 2008. Prior to this, Mr. Madelain served as Executive Vice President, Fundamental Ratings from September 2007 to May 2008, with responsibility for all Global Fundamental Ratings, including Corporate Finance, Financial Institutions, Public Finance and Infrastructure Finance. He managed the Financial Institutions group from March 2007 until September 2007. Mr. Madelain served as Group Managing Director, EMEA Corporate Ratings from November 2000 to March 2007 and prior thereto held several Managing Director positions in the U.S. and U.K. Fundamental Rating Groups. Prior to joining Moody’s in 1994, Mr. Madelain served as a Partner of Ernst & Young, Auditing Practice. Mr. Madelain is qualified as a Chartered Accountant in France. Joseph (Jay) McCabe, 62 Senior Vice President—CorporateController Mr. McCabe has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President—Corporate Controller since December 2005. Mr. McCabe joined Moody’s in July 2004 as Vice President and Corporate Controller. Before joining the Company, he served as Vice President—Corporate Controller at PPL Corporation, an energy and utility holding company, from 1994 to 2003. Prior to PPL Corporation, he served Deloitte & Touche as Partner from 1984 to 1993 and as a member of the firm’s audit practice from 1973 to 1984. Raymond W. McDaniel, Jr., 55 President and Chief Executive Officer Mr. McDaniel has served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since April 2012, and served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from April 2005 until April 2012. He currently serves on the MIS and International Business Development Committees of the Board of Directors. Mr. McDaniel served as the Company’s President from October 2004 until April 2005 and the Company’s Chief Operating Officer from January 2004 until April 2005. He has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, since October 2007 and held the additional title of President from November 2001 to August 2007 and December 2008 to November 2010. Mr. McDaniel served as the Company’s Executive Vice President from April 2003 to January 2004, and as Senior Vice President, Global Ratings and Research from November 2000 until April 2003. He served as Senior Managing Director, Global Ratings and Research, of Moody’s Investors Service from November 2000 until November 2001 and as Managing Director, International from 1996 to November 2000. Mr. McDaniel currently is a Director of John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Lisa S. Westlake, 51 Senior Vice President and Chief HumanResource Officer Ms. Westlake has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since November 2008. Prior to this position, Ms. Westlake served as Vice President—Investor Relations from December 2006 to November 2008 and Managing Director—Finance from September 2004 to December 2006. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Westlake was a senior consultant with the Schiff Consulting Group from 2003 to 2004. From 1996 to 2003 Ms. Westlake worked at American Express Company where she held several different positions such as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for the OPEN Small Business Network, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Establishment Services and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Relationship Services. From 1989 to 1995 Ms. Westlake held a range of financial management positions at Dun & Bradstreet Corporation and its subsidiary at the time, IMS International. From 1984 to 1987 Ms. Westlake served at Lehman Brothers in both the investment banking and municipal trading areas. Blair L. Worrall, 56 Senior Vice President – RatingsDelivery and Data Mr. Worrall was appointed Senior Vice President – Ratings Delivery and Data in February 2013. Prior to this position, he served as Senior Vice President – Internal Audit from April 2011 to February 2013 and as Vice President – Internal Audit from September 2007 to April 2011. He served as the Controller for Moody’s Investors Service from November 2004 until September 2007. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Worrall was Vice President, Accounting for RCN Corporation from 2002 to 2004 and held various finance positions at Dow Jones & Company, Inc. from 1979 to 2001. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company’s management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. If any of the following risks occur, Moody’s business, financial conditions, operating results and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K. MOODY’S 2012 10-K 15 Table of Contents U.S. Laws and Regulations Affecting the Credit Rating Industry are Rapidly Evolving and May Negatively Impact the Nature and Economics of the Company’s Business Moody’s operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. These regulations are complex, rapidly evolving and have tended to become more stringent over time. Some of the more prominent developments are discussed below or under the section entitled “Regulation” in Part 1, Item 1 of this Form 10-K. These new laws and regulations may cause or result in: • increased competition in the credit rating business; • alternatives to credit ratings; • restrictions on the use of information in the development or maintenance of credit ratings; • increased regulatory oversight of the credit markets and credit rating agency operations; • limits on the number of years a credit rating agency can rate the securities of a particular issuer; or • changes in the pricing of credit ratings. Two key pieces of legislation affecting these changes are the Reform Act and the Financial Reform Act. Under the Reform Act, which seeks to encourage increased competition among rating agencies, the SEC has direct jurisdiction over credit rating agencies that seek NRSRO status and has the authority to inspect their operations. The Financial Reform Act authorizes the adoption of enhanced oversight standards for credit rating agencies, and also provides for new pleading standards and enhanced liability. As a result, credit rating agencies may be subject to a greater number of legal proceedings claiming liability for losses suffered by investors on rated securities and may increase the aggregate legal defense costs incurred by Moody’s. These new laws and regulations, and any future rulemaking, could result in reduced demand for credit ratings and increased costs, which Moody’s may be unable to pass through to customers. In addition, there may be greater uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of new laws and regulations. As new laws and regulations are adopted, the Company may be required to incur significant expenses in order to ensure compliance and mitigate the risk of fines, penalties or other sanctions. Legal proceedings could become increasingly lengthy and there may be increased uncertainty over and exposure to liability. Given the comparatively recent adoption and the number of additional reforms proposed, it is difficult to accurately assess the future impact of these new and proposed legislative and regulatory requirements on Moody’s business and its customers’ businesses. These developments may affect MIS’s communications with issuers as part of the rating assignment process, alter the manner in which MIS’s ratings are developed, assigned and communicated, affect the manner in which MIS or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, impact the demand for MIS’s ratings and alter the economics of the credit ratings business, including by restricting or mandating business models for rating agencies. Further, speculation concerning the impact of legislative and regulatory initiatives and the increased uncertainty over potential liability and adverse legal or judicial determinations may affect Moody’s stock price. Although these recent and pending legislative and regulatory initiatives apply to rating agencies and credit markets generally, they may affect Moody’s in a disproportionate manner. Each of these developments increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may have a material adverse effect on Moody’s operations, profitability, competitiveness, demand for credit ratings and the manner in which such ratings are utilized. Financial Reforms Outside the U.S. Affecting the Credit Rating Industry May Negatively Impact the Nature and Economics of the Company’s Business In addition to the extensive and evolving U.S. laws and regulations governing the industry, foreign jurisdictions have taken measures to increase regulation of rating agencies and the markets for ratings. In particular, the EU has been active in adopting a new regulatory framework for rating agencies operating in the EU, and has sought to introduce a common EU regulatory approach to oversight of credit rating agencies. The EU has established conditions for the issuance of credit ratings, rules on the organization and conduct of credit rating agencies—including restrictions on certain activities deemed to create a conflict of interest—and special requirements for the rating of structured finance instruments. ESMA, which became fully operational in July 2011, now has direct supervisory authority for credit rating agencies in the EU. In January 2013, the European Parliament adopted amendments to its existing CRA regulations (generally referred to as CRA3). A few additional steps remain in the legislative process before CRA3 is finalized. It is expected that CRA3 will become effective in the second half of 2013. As adopted, the revised regulations, among other things, would: (i) impose various additional procedural requirements with respect to ratings of sovereign issuers; (ii) require member states to adopt laws imposing liability on CRAs for an intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by the applicable regulations; (iii) impose mandatory rotation requirements on CRAs hired by issuers of securities for ratings on resecuritizations, which may limit the number of years a CRA can issue ratings for such securities of a particular issuer; (iv) impose restrictions on credit rating agencies or their shareholders if certain ownership thresholds are crossed; and (v) impose additional procedural and substantive requirements on the pricing of services. 16 MOODY’S 2012 10-K Table of Contents EU financial reforms could have a significant negative effect on Moody’s operations and profitability, ability to compete or the markets for its products and services, including in ways that Moody’s presently is unable to predict. In particular, exposure to increased liability under future EU regulation may further increase costs and legal risks associated with the issuance of credit ratings and materially and adversely impact Moody’s results of operations. In addition, compliance with the amended EU regulations may increase costs of operations. Further, Moody’s believes there is still potential for additional rulemaking by the EU and other jurisdictions that can significantly impact operations or the markets for Moody’s products and services, such as regulations affecting the need for debt securities to be rated, establishment of criteria for credit ratings or limiting the entities authorized to provide credit ratings. Moody’s cannot predict the extent of such future laws and regulations, however, the effect that they have on Moody’s business or the potential for increased exposure to liability could be significant. Financial reforms in the EU and other foreign jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on the Moody’s business, operating results and financial conditions. Exposure to Litigation Related to Moody’s Rating Opinions Moody’s faces exposure to litigation related to its ratings actions, as well as other business practices. As a result of difficult economic times and turbulent markets over the last several years, the market value of credit-dependent instruments has declined and defaults have increased. This has led to a significant increase in the number of legal proceedings that Moody’s is facing, including class actions and other litigation, government investigations and inquiries concerning events in the U.S. subprime residential mortgage sector and the credit markets more broadly over the last several years. Legal proceedings impose additional expenses on the company and require the attention of senior management to an extent that may significantly reduce their ability to devote time addressing other business issues. Risks relating to legal proceedings may be heightened in foreign jurisdictions that lack the legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that exist in the U.S. In addition, new laws and regulations have been and may continue to be enacted that establish lower liability standards, shift the burden of proof or relax pleading requirements, thereby increasing the risk of successful litigations in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. These litigation risks are often difficult to assess or quantify. Moody’s may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover these risks, and their existence and magnitude often remains unknown for substantial periods of time. Furthermore, to the extent that Moody’s is unable to achieve dismissals from the various litigation at an early stage and matters proceed to trial, as are two SIV related litigations filed against the subsidiaries of Moody’s in the Southern District of New York, the aggregate legal defense costs incurred by Moody’s increase substantially, as does the risk of an adverse outcome. See “Contingencies” for more information regarding ongoing investigations and civil litigation that we currently face. Due to the number of these proceedings and significant amount of damages sought, there is a risk that Moody’s will be subject to judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other adverse results that could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. Legal, Economic and Regulatory Risks of Operating in Foreign Jurisdictions Moody’s conducts operations in various countries outside the U.S. and derives a significant portion of its revenue from foreign sources. Changes in the economic condition of the various foreign economies in which the Company operates may have an impact on business. For example, economic uncertainty in the Eurozone or in Southeast Asia could affect the number of securities offerings undertaken within those particular areas. In addition, operations abroad expose Moody’s to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as: • restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars; • exposure to exchange rate movements between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar; • the costs of repatriating cash held by entities outside the U.S.; • U.S. laws affecting overseas operations including domestic and foreign export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; • different legal or civil liability standards; • uncertain and evolving laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industries; • economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; • the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions; • competition with local rating agencies that have greater familiarity, longer operating histories and/or support from local governments or other institutions; • longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting receivables; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. MOODY’S 2012 10-K 17 Table of Contents Additionally, Moody’s is subject to complex U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. Although the Company has implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs to deter prohibited practices, such policies and procedures may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such policies and the law. Any determination that the Company has violated anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s financial conditions. Compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to the Company’s international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. Violations of such laws and regulations may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, restrictions on business conduct and could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s reputation, its ability to attract and retain employees, its business, operating results and financial conditions. Moody’s Operations and Infrastructure may Malfunction or Fail Moody’s ability to conduct business may be materially and adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports its businesses and the communities in which Moody’s is located, including its headquarters in New York City and offices in major cities worldwide. This may include a disruption involving physical or technological infrastructure used by the Company or third parties with or through whom Moody’s conducts business, whether due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism or war or otherwise. Moody’s efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of major operating systems may not be successful. The Company, in a number of instances, relies on third party providers to provide essential services. While the Company believes that such third parties are reliable, the Company has less control over the performance of such providers. The Company also does not have fully redundant systems for most of its smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and its disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. If a disruption occurs in one of Moody’s locations or systems and its personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, their ability to service and interact with Moody’s clients and customers may suffer. A disruption to Moody’s operations or infrastructure may have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial conditions. Risks Related to Cybersecurity and Protection of Confidential Information Moody’s prominence in the global marketplace makes it more likely that the Company will be targeted for cyber-attacks and other cybersecurity risks. In particular, the Company may be targeted in response to its ratings of sovereign debt. The Company’s operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in its computer systems and networks. Protective measures that Moody’s takes may be circumvented or insufficient and the Company’s networks and those of third party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks including unauthorized access to proprietary information and sensitive or confidential information, denial-of-service attacks, computer viruses and other security concerns, such as attacks from cyber criminals. Confidential and other information may be disclosed to an unauthorized third party as a result of inappropriate access to information technology systems and assets, or may be insufficiently protected when transferred to an authorized recipient. A successful cyber-attack could cause interruptions or malfunctions and compromise the confidentiality and integrity of the Company’s web sites, applications or data. Breaches of security could also expose the Company, its customers and others to risks of loss. Such attacks could have regulatory and reputational consequences, as well as affect client relationships. While we continue to focus on mitigating our vulnerability to cyber risks and protect our infrastructure against security breaches, security measures against such attacks are costly and may prove inadequate. As a result of such attacks, the Company may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by the Company. A successful cyber-attack or other cybersecurity concern may have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial conditions. Changes in the Volume of Debt Securities Issued in Domestic and/or Global Capital Markets and Changes in Interest Rates and Other Volatility in the Financial Markets Moody’s business is impacted by general economic conditions and volatility in the world financial markets. Credit market disruptions together with the persistent economic slowdown and uncertainty have negatively impacted the volume of debt securities issued in global capital markets and the demand for credit ratings. Although access to credit markets has improved in the U.S., a long-term continuation of difficult economic conditions, uncertainty regarding the U.S. debt ceiling or a worsening of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe is likely to have an adverse impact on the business. Future debt issuances could be negatively affected by a sharp increase in long-term interest rates or factors which cause instability or volatility in the global capital markets, such as significant regulatory, political or economic events, the use of alternative sources of credit including financial institutions and government sources and defaults of significant issuers. Changes in the markets for such securities and in the role and regulation of rating agencies may materially adversely affect the Company. Furthermore, issuers of debt securities may elect to issue securities without ratings or securities which are rated or evaluated by non-traditional parties such as financial advisors, rather than traditional credit rating agencies, such as MIS. A majority of MIS’s revenue is transaction-based, and therefore it is especially dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. Accordingly, any market volatility or conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers’ will- 18 MOODY’S 2012 10-K Table of Contents ingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar-equivalent volume of debt issuances for which MIS provides ratings services and thereby have an adverse effect on the fees derived from the issuance of ratings. As such, no assurance can be given as to the amount of revenues that may be derived therefrom. The timing, nature, extent and sustainability of any recovery in the credit and other financial markets remains uncertain, and a prolonged period of market decline or weakness could have a material adverse effect on the business. Moody’s initiatives to reduce costs may not be sufficient and further cost reductions may be difficult or impossible to obtain in the near term, due in part to rent, technology, compliance and other fixed costs associated with some of the Company’s operations as well as the need to monitor outstanding ratings. Further, the cost-reduction initiatives undertaken to date could make it difficult for the Company to rapidly expand operations to accommodate any unexpected increase in the credit markets and demand for ratings. Volatility in the financial markets, to include changes in the volumes of debt securities and changes in interest rates, may have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial conditions. Increased Pricing Pressure from Competitors and/or Customers There is intense price competition in the credit rating, research and credit risk management markets. Competition for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and service, as well as increased competition from non-NRSROs that evaluate debt risk for issuers or investors. At the same time, bankruptcies and consolidation of customers, particularly those involved in structured finance products, and other factors affecting demand may enhance the market power of customers. While Moody’s seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its products and service, it may lose market share if its pricing and services are not sufficiently competitive with its current and future competitors. In addition, one of the central goals of the Reform Act was to encourage competition among rating agencies. The formation of additional NRSROs may increase pricing, as well as other competitive pressures. If Moody’s is unable to compete successfully with respect to the pricing of its services and products, its business, operating results and financial condition may experience a material adverse effect. Exposure to Reputational and Credibility Concerns Moody’s reputation and the strength of its brand are key competitive strengths. To the extent that the rating agency business as a whole or Moody’s, relative to its competitors, suffers a loss in credibility, Moody’s business could be significantly impacted. Factors that may have already affected credibility and could potentially continue to have an impact in this regard include the appearance of a conflict of interest, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities, the timing and nature of changes in ratings, a major compliance failure, negative publicity and increased criticism by users of ratings, regulators and legislative bodies, including adverse publicity as to the ratings process and its implementation with respect to one or more securities. Operational errors, whether by Moody’s or a Moody’s competitor, could also harm the reputation of the credit rating industry. Damage to reputation and credibility could have a material adverse impact on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition. Introduction of Competing Products or Technologies by Other Companies The markets for credit ratings, research and credit risk management services are highly competitive. The ability to provide innovative products and technologies that anticipate customers’ changing requirements and utilize emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share. Our competitors include both established companies with significant financial resources, brand recognition, market experience and technological expertise, as well as smaller companies which may be better poised to quickly adopt new or emerging technologies or respond to customer requirements. Competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for assessing credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by Moody’s, or may price or market their products in manners that differ from those utilized by Moody’s. Customers or others may develop alternative, proprietary systems for assessing credit risk. Such developments could affect demand for Moody’s products and its growth prospects. In addition, Moody’s growth prospects also could be adversely affected by limitations of its information technologies that fail to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products at levels achieved by competitors. If Moody’s is unable to compete successfully, there may be a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. Significant Amount of Intangible Assets At December 31, 2012, Moody’s had $637.1 million of goodwill and $226.5 million of intangible assets on its balance sheet. Approximately 99% of these intangibles reside in the MA business and are allocated to the four reporting units within MA: RD&A; ERS; Financial Services Training and Certifications, and Copal. Failure to achieve business objectives and financial projections in any of these reporting units could result in an asset impairment charge, which would result in a non-cash charge to operating expenses. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment on an annual basis and also when events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. Determining whether an impairment of goodwill exists is difficult as a result of increased uncertainty and current market dynamics, and requires significant management estimates and judgment. An asset impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition. During the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company recognized a $12.2 million goodwill impairment charge related to its FSTC reporting unit, which is more fully MOODY’S 2012 10-K 19 Table of Contents described in the “Critical Accounting Estimates” section of Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10K. Possible Loss of Key Employees and Related Compensation Cost Pressures Moody’s success depends in part upon recruiting, retaining and motivating highly skilled, experienced financial analysts and other professionals. Competition for skilled individuals in the financial services industry is intense, and Moody’s ability to attract high quality employees could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing analytical industries. Investment banks, investors and competitors may seek to attract analyst talent by providing more favorable working conditions or offering significantly more attractive compensation packages than Moody’s. Moody’s also may not be able to identify and hire the appropriate qualified employees in some markets outside the U.S. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. We are highly dependent on the continued services of Raymond W. McDaniel, Jr., our President and Chief Executive Officer, and other senior officers and key employees. The loss of the services of skilled personnel for any reason, as well as any negative market perception resulting from such loss, could have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition. Moody’s Acquisitions and Other Strategic Transactions may not Produce Anticipated Results Moody’s has made and expects to continue to make acquisitions or enter into other strategic transactions to strengthen our business and grow the Company. Such transactions present significant challenges and risks. The market for acquisition targets and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect our ability to complete such transactions. If such transactions are completed, they may not realize the anticipated growth and other strategic objectives, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. For instance, the process of integration may require more resources than anticipated, there may be unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures, the Company may fail to retain key personnel of the acquired business and such transactions may divert management’s focus from other business operations. The anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. As a result, the failure of acquisitions and other strategic transactions to perform as expected may have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition. The Trading Price of Moody’s Stock Could be Affected by Third Party Actions Ownership of Moody’s stock is highly concentrated with a majority of shares held by a few institutional stockholders. Due to this concentrated stockholder base, the trading price of Moody’s stock could be affected considerably by actions of significant stockholders to increase or decrease their positions in Moody’s stock. As a result, the actions of these institutional stockholders could create high stock volatility. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 