Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. We urge you to carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all the other information in this Annual Report, before making any investment decision with respect to our common stock. If any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could be adversely affected and therefore affect the value in the investment in our common stock. 9 Continued Uncertainty in the Economy and Impact on Consumers and Retail Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of discretionary consumer spending, which remain at depressed levels. Certain factors that could influence the levels of consumer spending include, without limitation, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, fuel and energy costs, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. Any future decrease in economic activity in the United States or in other regions of the world in which we do business could significantly and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in a number of ways. Any decline in economic conditions may reduce the purchases of our products, thereby reducing our revenues and earnings. Bankruptcies or similar events by retailers and suppliers may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced and could negatively impact overall revenues. Credit risk includes the risk that our retail customers will not pay their bills, which may lead to a reduction in liquidity and an eventual increase in bad debt. Our retail customers’ credit risk is determined by numerous factors including, without limitation, each individual customer’s business borrowings and credit availability, the overall level of economic activity in our various markets and the prices of products and services provided. Additionally, increased promotional and closeout activity by our competitors could adversely impact the health of our customers and increase our credit risk. Source of Supply A significant portion of our inventory purchases are from one supplier in China. We purchased approximately 19% and 27% of our total inventory purchased for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, from this one Chinese supplier. Substantially all of our fairway wood, driver, iron, i-wood, wedge and putter component parts are manufactured in China and Taiwan. We could, in the future, experience shortages of components for reasons including, without limitation, the supplier’s production capacity or materials shortages, or periods of increased price pressures, or bankruptcy or similar material adverse effect on the supplier’s operations and business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. Concentration of the Company’s Customer Base We are currently dependent on three customers, which collectively comprised approximately 29.7% of net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2010, three customers comprised approximately 28.9% of net revenues. The loss of one or more of our top customers could have a significant negative impact on the Company’s performance. For the year ended December 31, 2011, one customer represented greater than 10% but less than 20% of net sales. Any decline in or loss of business or the inability of this customer or any of our other large customers to timely pay their obligations, could have a material adverse effect upon our net sales and financial performance. Dependence on New Product Introductions; Uncertain Consumer Acceptance Our ultimate success depends, in large part, on our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products widely accepted in the marketplace. Historically, a large portion of new golf club technologies and product designs have been met with consumer rejection. Certain products we previously introduced have not met the level of consumer acceptance anticipated by management. No assurance can be given that our current or future products will be met with consumer acceptance. Failure by us to timely identify and develop innovative new products that achieve widespread market acceptance would adversely affect our continued success and viability. Additionally, successful technologies, designs and product concepts are likely to be copied by competitors. Accordingly, our operating results could fluctuate as a result of the amount, timing, and market acceptance of new product introductions by us or our competitors. If we are unable to develop new products that will ultimately be widely accepted by customers, it will have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 10 The design of new golf clubs is also greatly influenced by the rules and interpretations of the USGA. Although the golf equipment standards established by the USGA generally apply only to competitive events sanctioned by the organization, we believe that it is critical for our future success that new clubs we introduce comply with USGA standards. We invest significant resources in the development of new products and efforts to comply with USGA standards may hinder or delay development of products and adversely effect revenues and customer demand. Additionally, increased costs associated with complying with USGA standards could reduce margins and adversely affect the results of operations. Possible Decreasing Amount of Golf Played by Consumers Our revenues are completely driven from sales of golf-related products, and the demand for these products is directly related to the number of golfers and rounds of golf being played each year and the overall popularity of golf. Golf products are recreational in nature and are therefore discretionary purchases for customers. Consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases of golf products during favorable economic conditions and when consumers are feeling confident and prosperous. If there was a decrease in consumer spending and increase in unemployment, golfers may decrease the number of rounds they play as well as the amount of golf-related products they purchase. If golf participation or the number of rounds of golf played decreases, sales of our products may be adversely affected. Increasing Competition The golf club market is highly competitive. We compete with a number of established golf club manufacturers, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we have. Our competitors include Callaway Golf Company, adidas-Salomon AG (Taylor Made - adidas Golf), Nike, Inc. (Nike Golf), Fila Korea (Titleist), and Karsten Assembly Company (PING), among others. We compete primarily on the basis of performance, brand name recognition, quality and price. We believe that our ability to market our products through multiple distribution channels, including on- and off- course golf shops and other retailers, is important to the manner in which we compete. The purchasing decisions of many golfers are often the result of highly subjective preferences, which can be influenced by many factors, including, among others, advertising, media, promotions and product endorsements. These preferences may also be subject to rapid and unanticipated changes. We could face substantial competition from existing or new competitors who introduce and successfully promote golf clubs that enjoy technological advantages or achieve market acceptance. Such competition could result in significant price erosion, lower sales, or increased promotional expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and/or financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future sources of competition or that our business, operating results and/or financial condition will not be adversely affected by increased competition in the markets in which we operate. The golf club industry is generally characterized by rapid and widespread imitation of popular technologies, designs and product concepts. Due to the success of the Tight Lies fairway woods, several competitors have introduced similar products. More recently, several competitors have introduced hybrid iron sets that compete directly with our hybrid irons sets. Should our recently introduced product lines achieve widespread market success, it is reasonable to expect that our current and future competitors would move quickly to introduce similar products that would directly compete with the new product lines. We may face competition from manufacturers introducing other new or innovative products or successfully promoting golf clubs that achieve market acceptance. The failure to successfully compete in the future could result in a material deterioration of customer loyalty and our image, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. The introduction of new products by us or our competitors can be expected to result in closeouts, promotions or other discounting of existing inventories at both the wholesale and retail levels. Such closeouts, promotions or discounting are likely to result in reduced margins on the sale of older products, as well as reduced sales of new products given the availability of older products at lower prices. As the Idea a12 OS product line of irons and the Speedline F11 product lines were launched in 2011, older product lines such as Idea a7 and a7 OS irons and Idea Tech V3 irons and Speedline F10 woods experienced reductions in price at both wholesale and retail levels. 11 Risks Associated with Intellectual Property Protection Imitation of popular club design is widespread in the golf industry. There can be no assurance that competitors, many of whom have substantially greater resources than we do and have made substantial investments in competing products, will not be able to successfully sell golf clubs that imitate our products without infringing on our copyrights, patents, trademarks or trade dress, or apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make and sell our products. There are numerous patents held by third parties that relate to products competitive to us. There is no assurance that these patents would not be used as a basis to challenge the validity of our patent rights to limit the scope of our patent rights or to limit our ability to obtain additional broader patent rights. A successful challenge to the validity of our patents may adversely affect our competitive position. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such patent holders or other third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to current and future products. Because U.S. patent applications are held and examined in secrecy, it is also possible that presently pending U.S. applications will eventually issue with claims that may be infringed by our products or technologies. We have had to defend against infringement claims in the past and the defense and prosecution of patent suits is costly and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable. This is particularly true in foreign countries where the expenses associated with such proceedings can be prohibitive. Litigation in respect to patents or other intellectual property matters, whether with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources, cause delays or other problems in the marketing and sales of our products, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance as to the degree of protection afforded by these or any other patents we hold or as to the likelihood that patents will be issued from the pending patent applications. Moreover, our patents may have limited commercial value or may lack sufficient breadth to adequately protect the aspects of our products to which the patents relate. The U.S. patents we hold do not preclude competitors from developing or marketing products similar to our products in international markets. Our attempts to maintain the secrecy of our confidential business information include, without limitation, engaging in the practice of having prospective vendors and suppliers sign confidentiality agreements when producing components of new technology. No assurance can be given that our confidential business information will be adequately protected in all instances. The unauthorized use of our confidential business information could adversely affect us. Uncertainty Regarding Continuation of Profitability While we generated net income in each of the five fiscal years from 2003 to 2007 and again in 2010 and 2011, we were not profitable for the years ending December 31, 2008 or 2009, and we experienced significant losses prior to the year ended December 31, 2003. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase or maintain revenues or continue such profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. An inability to continue to operate profitably could jeopardize our ability to develop, enhance, and market products, retain qualified personnel, and take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Need for Additional Capital and Market Volatility No assurances can be given that we will have sufficient cash resources beyond twelve months or that we will be able to fund our operations over a length of time. Historically, we have funded capital expenditures for operations through cash flow from operations. To the extent our cash requirements or assumptions change, we may have to raise additional capital and/or further curtail our operating expenses, including further operational restructurings. If we need to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of the stockholders of our Company would be reduced and/or such equity securities could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our Company's common stock. 12 Given the current market price for our common stock and the state of the capital markets generally, we may not be able to raise funds through the issuance of our capital stock in the foreseeable future at commercially favorable terms, and we may also find it difficult to secure additional debt financing beyond our current credit facility. There can be no assurance that financing will be available if needed or if available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Accordingly, it is possible that our only sources of funding will be current cash reserves, projected cash flows from operations and up to $15.0 million of borrowings available under our revolving credit facility, assuming that such revolving credit facility continues to be available and that we continue to meet the covenants and conditions precedent to borrowing, which cannot be assured. Dependence on Key Personnel and Endorsements Our success depends to an extent upon the performance of our management team, which includes our Chief Executive Officer, Vice President of Research and Development, and many other key members of the team. The loss or unavailability of Mr. Tim Reed, who joined the management team in 2000 in the capacity of Vice President of Research and Development, or other various members of the team, could also adversely affect our business. With the exception of our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Interim Chief Executive Officer, B.H. (Barney) Adams, Mr. Reed, Mrs. Pamela High, Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Brad Barnett, V.P. of Global Operations, and Mr. Richard Berglund, V.P. of Strategic Accounts and Regional Sales, none of our Company's officers and employees are bound by employment agreements, and the employment of such officers and employees is, therefore, at will. We established key-men life insurance policies on the life of Mr. Reed; however, there can be no assurance that the proceeds of this policy could adequately compensate us for the loss of his service. In addition, there is strong competition for qualified personnel in the golf club industry, and the inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate other key personnel could adversely affect our business, operating results and/or financial condition. Effective February 29, 2012, Mr. Chip Brewer resigned as Chief Executive Officer and President. Mr. Barney Adams will serve as Interim Chief Executive Officer until the Board of Directors determines otherwise. On the PGA Tour we have entered into endorsement agreements with professionals such as Ryan Moore, Aaron Baddeley, Chad Campbell, and several others. On the Champions Tour, we have entered into endorsement agreements with Tom Watson, Kenny Perry, Bernard Langer, and several others. On the LPGA Tour, we have entered into endorsement agreements with Yani Tseng, Kathleen Ekey, Brittany Lang, and several others. On the Nationwide tour, we have agreements with various players. All of the above contracts have various dates of expiration through 2014 and require the use of certain of our products. The loss of one or more of these endorsement arrangements could adversely affect our marketing and sales efforts and, accordingly, our business, operating results and/or financial condition. From time to time, we negotiate with and sign endorsement contracts with either existing or new tour players. As is typical in the golf industry, generally the agreements with these professional golfers do not necessarily require that they use exclusively our golf clubs at all times during the terms of the respective agreements, including, in certain circumstances, at times when we are required to make payments to them. The failure of certain individuals to use our products on one or more occasions can result in, and has resulted in, negative publicity. Alternatively, poor decisions by professionals sponsored by us could result in negative publicity. No assurance can be given that our business would not be adversely affected in a material way by such negative publicity or by the failure of our known professional endorsers to carry and use our products. Effectiveness of our Marketing Strategy We have designed our marketing strategy to include advertising efforts in multiple media avenues such as television airtime on golf related events, product education for the consumer through an Internet website, publications including periodicals and brochures, and in store media such as point of purchase displays and product introduction fact sheets. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we spent approximately $4.9 million and $4.0 million, respectively, on the above listed marketing efforts. There can be no assurances that our marketing strategy will be effective or that increases in the levels of investments in advertising spending will result in material fluctuations in the sales of our products. 13 Sufficient Inventory Levels The nature of the golf industry requires that we carry a substantial level of inventory due to the lead times associated with purchasing components overseas coupled with the seasonality of customer demand. Our inventory balances were approximately $26.5 million and $27.1 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. Due to the frequency of new product releases by us and/or our competitors, our existing inventory may be subject to a significant and rapid decline in the market value. Because our inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, a decline in the market value of our existing inventory may necessitate a substantial write down of our inventory balance, negatively impacting our financial performance. Furthermore, if we are unable to maintain sufficient inventory to meet customer demand on a timely basis or provide sufficient capacity to assemble the products at our facility, the effect could result in cancellation of customer orders, loss of customers, and damage to our reputation. In addition, carrying a substantial level of inventory has an adverse effect on our financial position and liquidity. Accounts Receivable Customer Terms Due to industry sensitivity to consumer buying trends and available disposable income, we have in the past extended payment terms for specific retail customers. Issuance of these terms (i.e. greater than 30 days or specific dating) is dependent on our relationship with the customer and the customer's payment history typically during off-peak times in the year. These extended terms have a negative impact on our financial position and liquidity. In addition, the reserves we establish may be inadequate in the event that the customer's financial strength weakens significantly. Seasonality and Quarterly Fluctuations Golf is generally regarded as a warm weather sport, and net sales of golf equipment have been historically strongest for us during the first and second quarters. In addition, net sales of golf clubs are dependent on discretionary consumer spending, which may be affected by general economic conditions. Decreases in consumer spending generally result in decreased spending on golf equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and/or financial condition. In addition, our future results of operations could be affected by a number of other factors, such as unseasonable weather patterns, natural disasters such as hurricanes, which could interrupt the sales patterns and could generate hardships for customers in the effected area, demand for and market acceptance of our existing and future products, new product introductions by our competitors, competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected selling prices, and the volume of orders that are received and that can be fulfilled in a quarter. Any one or more of these factors could adversely affect us or result in us failing to achieve our expectations as to future sales or operating results. Because most operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, we may be unable to adjust spending sufficiently in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected sales shortfall that could materially adversely affect quarterly results of operations and liquidity. If technological advances by competitors or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development or sales and marketing efforts, our business, operating results and/or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be solely relied upon as an indication of future performance. In addition, the results of any quarter are not fully indicative of results to be expected for a full fiscal year. As a result of fluctuating operating results or other factors discussed in this report, in certain future quarters our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. In such event, the market price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. Rapid Growth, Increased Demand for Product If we are successful in obtaining rapid market growth for various golf clubs, we may be required to deliver large volumes of quality products to customers on a timely basis, which could potentially require us to increase our production facility, increase purchasing of raw materials or finished goods, increase the size of our workforce, expand our quality control capabilities, or incur additional expenses associated with sudden increases in demand. Any combination of one or more of the listed factors could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability, operations and financial position. 14 Adequate Product Warranty Reserves We provide a limited one year product warranty on all of our golf clubs. Significant increases in the incidence of such claims may adversely affect our sales and our reputation with consumers. We establish a reserve for warranty claims. This reserve could be insufficient if we were to experience an unexpectedly high incidence of problems with our products. Unauthorized Distribution and Counterfeit Clubs Some quantities of our products have been found in unapproved outlets or distribution channels, including unapproved retailers conducting business on common Internet auction sites. The existence of a "gray market" in our products can undermine the sales of authorized retailers and foreign wholesale distributors who promote and support our products and can injure our image in the minds of our customers and consumers in general. We do not believe the unauthorized distribution of our products can be totally eliminated. The unauthorized distribution of our clubs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or competitive position. In addition, we are occasionally made aware of the existence of counterfeit copies of our golf clubs, particularly in foreign markets. When practical, we take action in these situations through local authorities and legal counsel. If we are unable to effectively deter counterfeit efforts, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or competitive position. Certain Risks of Conducting Business Abroad Our Company imports a significant portion of our component parts, including heads, shafts, headcovers and grips, from companies in China and Taiwan. In addition, we sell our products to certain distributors located outside the United States. Our international business is currently centered in Canada, Europe, South Africa, Korea and other Asia markets, and our management is currently focusing our international efforts through agency and distributor relationships. International sales accounted for approximately 19% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. Our business is subject to the risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign government relations, foreign consumer preferences, import and export control, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments and changes in economic conditions and exchange rates in countries in which we purchase components or sell our products. Recent foreign events, including, without limitation, continuing U.S. military operations, could potentially cause a delay in imports or exports due to heightened security with customs. In addition, by conducting business abroad, we could be adversely affected by changes in foreign exchange rates among the countries which may materially adversely affect our financial condition. Furthermore, a change in our relationship with one or more of the customers or distributors could negatively impact the volume of foreign sales. Reliance on Third Parties for Delivery We use United Parcel Services (UPS) for substantially all outbound shipments of our products in the United States. We use other freight lines and larger air carriers for large domestic shipments and international shipments. In addition, many of the components we use to build our products are shipped via air and ocean carriers from overseas using UPS Supply Chain Solution. If we experienced a significant interruption in services from one or more of these providers, we may be unable to engage alternative suppliers to deliver our products or to timely provide the necessary components for production in a cost efficient manner. This interruption could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 15 Risks of Adequate Insurance Coverage We procure various insurance policies to cover different aspects of our business, including without limitation, property, commercial liability, workers compensation, business interruption, foreign liabilities, auto, crime, employment practices and directors' and officers' insurance. Although we obtain various insurance policies, unforeseen situations or events may arise that could limit the amount or types of insurance coverage available to, or held by, the Company. Anti-Takeover Provisions Our Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain, among other things, provisions establishing a classified Board of Directors, authorizing shares of preferred stock with respect to which our Board of Directors has the power to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions without any further vote or action by the stockholders, requiring that all stockholder action be taken at a stockholders' meeting and establishing certain advance notice requirements in order for stockholder proposals or director nominations to be considered at such meetings. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general this statute prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a "business combination" with an "interested stockholder" for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Such provision could delay, deter or prevent a merger, consolidation, tender offer, or other business combination or change of control involving our Company that some or a majority of our stockholders might consider to be in their best interest, including offers or attempted takeovers that might otherwise result in such stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for the common stock. The potential issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control, may discourage bids for the common stock at a premium over the market price of the common stock and may adversely affect the market price of and voting and other rights of the holders of the common stock. 