Item 1A. Risk Factors The financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Partnership are affected by various factors, many of which are beyond the Partnership’s control. These include the following: • The receipt of interest and principal payments on the Partnership’s tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds will be affected by the economic results of the underlying multifamily properties. Although the Partnership’s tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds are issued by state or local housing authorities, they are not obligations of these governmental entities and are not backed by any taxing authority. Instead, each of these revenue bonds is backed by a non-recourse loan made to the owner of the underlying apartment complex and is secured by a first mortgage lien on the property. Because of the non-recourse nature of the underlying mortgage loans, the sole source of cash to pay base and contingent interest on the revenue bond, and to ultimately pay the principal amount of the bond, is the net cash flow generated by the operation of the financed property and the net proceeds from the ultimate sale or refinancing of the property. This makes the Partnership’s investments in these mortgage revenue bonds subject to the kinds of risks usually associated with direct investments in multifamily real estate. If a property is unable to sustain net rental revenues at a level necessary to pay its debt service obligations on the Partnership’s tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond on the property, a default may occur. Net rental revenues and net sale proceeds from a particular property are applied only to debt service payments of the particular mortgage revenue bond secured by that property and are not available to satisfy debt service obligations on other mortgage revenue bonds held by the Partnership. In addition, the value of a property at the time of its sale or refinancing will be a direct function of its perceived future profitability. Therefore, the amount of base and contingent interest that the Partnership earns on its mortgage revenue bonds, and whether or not it will receive the entire principal balance of the bonds as and when due, will depend to a large degree on the economic results of the underlying apartment complexes. The net rental revenue from the operation of a property may be affected by many things, such as the number of tenants, the rental rates, operating expenses, the cost of repairs and maintenance, taxes, government regulation, competition from other apartment complexes, mortgage rates for single-family housing and general and local economic conditions. In most of the markets in which these properties are located there is significant competition from other apartment complexes and from single-family housing that is either owned or leased by potential tenants. Low mortgage interest rates make single-family housing more accessible to persons who may otherwise rent apartments. In the event of a default on a mortgage revenue bond (or a taxable loan on the same property), the Partnership will have the right to foreclose on the mortgage or deed of trust securing the property. If the Partnership takes ownership of the property securing a defaulted revenue bond or taxable loan, it will be entitled to all net rental revenues generated by the property. However, such amounts will no longer represent tax-exempt interest to the Partnership. • The value of the properties is the only source of repayment of the Partnership’s tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds. The principal of most of the Partnership’s tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds does not fully amortize over their terms. This means that all or some of the balance of the mortgage loans underlying these bonds will be repaid as a lump-sum “balloon” payment at the end of the term. The ability of the property owners to repay the mortgage loans with balloon payments is dependent upon their ability to sell the properties securing the Partnership’s tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds or obtain refinancing. The mortgage revenue bonds are 7 Table of Contents not personal obligations of the property owners, and the Partnership relies solely on the value of the properties securing these bonds for security. Similarly, if a tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond goes into default, the Partnership’s only recourse is to foreclose on the underlying multifamily property. If the value of the underlying property securing the bond is less than the outstanding principal balance and accrued interest on the bond, the Partnership will suffer a loss. In the event a property securing a tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond is not sold prior to the maturity or remarketing of the bond, any participating or contingent interest payable from the net sale or refinancing proceeds of the underlying property will be determined on the basis of the appraised value of the underlying property. Real estate appraisals represent only an estimate of the value of the property being appraised and are based on subjective determinations, such as the extent to which the properties used for comparison purposes are comparable to the property being evaluated and the rate at which a prospective purchaser would capitalize the cash flow of the property to determine a purchase price. Accordingly, such appraisals may result in the Partnership realizing less contingent interest from a tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond than it would have realized had the underlying property been sold. • There is additional credit risk when the Partnership makes a taxable loan on a property. Taxable mortgage loans which are made by the Partnership to owners of the properties which secure mortgage revenue bonds held by the Partnership are non-recourse obligations of the property owner. As a result, the sole source of principal and interest payments on these taxable loans is the net rental revenues generated by these properties or the net proceeds from the sale of these properties. The net rental revenue from the operation of a property may be affected by many things as discussed above. If a property is unable to sustain net rental revenues at a level necessary to pay current debt service obligations on the Partnership’s taxable loan on such property, a default may occur. In addition, any payment of principal and interest on a taxable loan on a particular property will be subordinate to payment of all principal and interest (including contingent interest) on the mortgage revenue bond secured by the same property. As a result, there may be a higher risk of default on the taxable loans than on the mortgage revenue bonds. • The Properties financed by the Partnership’s tax-exempt bonds are not completely insured against damages from hurricanes and other major storms. Four of the multifamily housing properties financed by tax-exempt bonds held by the Partnership are located in Florida in areas that are prone to damage from hurricanes and other major storms. Due to the significant losses incurred by insurance companies on policies written on properties in Florida damaged by hurricanes, property and casualty insurers in Florida have modified their approach to underwriting policies. As a result, the owners of these Florida properties now assume the risk of first loss on a larger percentage of their property’s value. If any of these properties were damaged in a hurricane or other major storm, the losses incurred could be significant and would reduce the cash flow available to pay base or contingent interest on the Partnership’s tax-exempt bonds collateralized by these properties. In general, the current insurance policies on these four properties carry a 3% deductible on the insurable value of the properties. The current insurable value of the Florida properties is approximately $1.6 million. • The Partnership may suffer adverse consequences from changing interest rates. The Partnership has financed the acquisition of some of its assets using variable-rate debt financing. The interest paid by the Partnership on this financing fluctuates with a specific interest rate index. If the interest rate index increases, the Partnership’s interest expense will increase. This will reduce the amount of cash the Partnership has available for distribution and may affect the market value of the BUCs. An increase in interest rates could also decrease the value of the Partnership’s tax-exempt mortgage bonds. A decrease in the value of the Partnership’s tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds could cause the debt financing counterparty to demand additional collateral. If additional collateral is not available, the debt financing could be terminated in which case the Partnership could incur a loss of the associated net interest income. A decrease in the value of the Partnership’s tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds could also decrease the 8 Table of Contents amount the Partnership could realize on the sale of its investments and would decrease the amount of funds available for distribution to BUC holders. • There are risks associated with the Partnership’s participation in the P-Float program. In order to obtain debt financing, the Partnership has securitized many of its tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds through the Merrill Lynch P-Float program. Under this program, the Partnership deposits a tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond into a trust which issues a senior P-Float to an institutional investor and a residual interest to the Partnership. The trust pays interest on the P-Floats and the residual interest from the interest payments received on the underlying tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond. If the trust is unable to pay the full amount of interest due on the P-Float, a default will occur. In addition, if the value of the mortgage revenue bond and any other collateral declines below a specified level, a default will occur. In such event, the trust could be terminated and the Partnership may incur a loss on the bonds pledged as collateral. In this program, the senior interests sold are credit enhanced by Merrill Lynch or its affiliate. The inability of Merrill Lynch or its affiliate to perform under the program or impairment of the credit enhancement may terminate the transaction and cause the Partnership to lose the net interest income earned as a result. By using the P-Float program for debt financing, the Partnership foregoes a portion of the interest it would have received on its existing tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds. If the Partnership is unable to reinvest the proceeds from this borrowing in investments that generate a greater amount of interest, the amount of net interest income received by the Partnership may decline. • The Partnership’s tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds are illiquid assets and their value may decrease. The majority of the Partnership’s assets consist of its tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds. These mortgage revenue bonds are relatively illiquid and there is no existing trading market for these mortgage revenue bonds. As a result, there are no market makers, price quotations or other indications of a developed trading market for these mortgage revenue bonds. In addition, no rating has been issued on any of the existing mortgage revenue bonds and the Partnership does not expect to obtain ratings on mortgage revenue bonds it may acquire in the future. Accordingly, any buyer of these mortgage revenue bonds would need to perform its own due diligence prior to a purchase. As a result, the Partnership’s ability to sell its tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds, and the price it may receive upon their sale, will be affected by the number of potential buyers, the number of similar securities on the market at the time and a number of other market conditions. As a result, such a sale could result in a loss to the Partnership. • In the event that counterparties are unable to fulfill their obligations under the derivative agreements, the Partnership could be adversely affected. The Partnership has used interest rate cap agreements to mitigate its interest rate risks on its debt financing. However, these derivative transactions do not fully insulate the Partnership from the interest rate risks to which it is exposed. In addition, the derivative instruments are required to be marked to market with the difference recognized in earnings which can result in significant volatility to reported net income over the term of the caps. The counterparty to certain of these agreements has the right to convert them to fixed rate agreements and it is possible that such a conversion could result in the Partnership paying more interest than it would under its variable-rate financing. There is also a risk that a counterparty to the cap agreements will be unable to perform its obligations under the agreement. • The rent restrictions and occupant income limitations imposed on properties financed by tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds may limit the revenues of the properties financed by the Partnership’s tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds. All of the properties securing the Partnership’s tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds are subject to certain federal, state and/or local requirements with respect to the permissible income of their tenants. Since federal subsidies are not generally available on these properties, rents must be charged on a designated portion of the units at a level to permit these units to be continuously occupied by low or moderate income persons or families. As a result, these rents may not be sufficient to cover all operating costs with respect to these units 9 Table of Contents and debt service on the applicable tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond. This may force the property owner to charge rents on the remaining units that are higher than they would be otherwise and may, therefore, exceed competitive rents which may adversely affect the occupancy rate of a property securing an investment and the property owner’s ability to service its debt. • The interest on the Partnership’s tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds may become subject to taxation. The tax-exempt status of the interest paid on the Partnership’s tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds is subject to compliance by the underlying properties with the bond documents and covenants required by the bond issuing authority. In addition, the Partnership holds, directly or indirectly, residual interests in certain tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds through securitization programs, such as the P-Floats/RITES program, which entitles the Partnership to a share of the tax-exempt interest of these mortgage revenue bonds. It is possible that the tax-exempt status of the Partnership’s tax exempt bonds or the characterization of the residual interest in the P-Floats/RITES program could be challenged and the income the Partnership receives through these instruments could be treated as ordinary taxable income includable in the Partnership’s gross income for federal tax purposes. A BUC holder’s distributive share of this income would be taxable to the BUC holder regardless of whether an amount of cash equal to such distributive share is actually distributed to him or her. Certain of the Partnership’s tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds bear interest at rates which include participating or contingent interest. Payment of the contingent interest depends on the amount of cash flow from, and proceeds upon sale of, the property securing the bond. An issue may arise as to whether the relationship between the Partnership and the property owner is that of debtor and creditor or whether the Partnership is engaged in a partnership or joint venture with the property owner. If the IRS were to determine that tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds represented an equity investment in the underlying property, the interest paid to the Partnership could be viewed as a taxable return on such investment and would not qualify as tax-exempt interest for federal income tax purposes. The Partnership has obtained unqualified legal opinions to the effect that interest on its tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds is excludable from gross income for federal income tax purposes. However, these legal opinions have no binding effect on the IRS or the courts, and no assurances can be given that the conclusions reached will not be contested by the IRS or, if contested, will be sustained by a court. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department. Changes to the tax law, which may have retroactive application, could adversely affect the Partnership and its BUC holders. It cannot be predicted whether, when, in what forms or with what effective dates the tax law applicable to the Partnership will be changed. • Any future issuances of additional BUCs could cause their market value to decline. The Partnership has the authority to issue additional BUCs from time to time at the discretion of the General Partner. The issuance of additional BUCs could cause dilution of the existing BUCs and a decrease in the market price of the BUCs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 