Item 1A. Risk Factors The financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Partnership are affected by various factors, many of which are beyond the Partnership's control. These include the following: Cash distributions from the Partnership may change depending on the amount of cash available for distribution. The Partnership currently distributes cash to unitholders at an annual rate of $0.50 per unit. The amount of the cash per unit distributed by the Partnership may increase or decrease at the determination of the General Partner based on its assessment of the amount of cash available to the Partnership for this purpose. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Partnership generated cash available for distribution of $0.35 per unit. Although the Partnership may supplement its cash available for distribution with unrestricted cash, unless the Partnership is able to increase its cash receipts through completion of its current investment plans, the Partnership may need to reduce the level of cash distributions per unit from the current level. In addition, there is no assurance that the Partnership will be able to maintain its current level of annual cash distributions per unit even if the Partnership completes its current investment plans. 9The receipt of interest and principal payments on our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds will be affected by the economic results of the underlying multifamily properties. Although our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds are issued by state or local housing authorities, they are not obligations of these governmental entities and are not backed by any taxing authority. Instead, each of these revenue bonds is backed by a non-recourse loan made to the owner of the underlying apartment complex and is secured by a first mortgage lien on the property. Because of the non-recourse nature of the underlying mortgage loans, the sole source of cash to pay base and contingent interest on the revenue bond, and to ultimately pay the principal amount of the bond, is the net cash flow generated by the operation of the financed property and the net proceeds from the ultimate sale or refinancing of the property, except in limited cases where a property owner has provided a limited guarantee of certain payments. This makes our investments in these mortgage revenue bonds subject to the kinds of risks usually associated with direct investments in multifamily real estate. If a property is unable to sustain net cash flow at a level necessary to pay its debt service obligations on our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond on the property, a default may occur. Net cash flow and net sale proceeds from a particular property are applied only to debt service payments of the particular mortgage revenue bond secured by that property and are not available to satisfy debt service obligations on other mortgage revenue bonds that we hold. In addition, the value of a property at the time of its sale or refinancing will be a direct function of its perceived future profitability. Therefore, the amount of base and contingent interest that we earn on our mortgage revenue bonds, and whether or not we will receive the entire principal balance of the bonds as and when due, will depend to a large degree on the economic results of the underlying apartment complexes. The net cash flow from the operation of a property may be affected by many things, such as the number of tenants, the rental rates, operating expenses, the cost of repairs and maintenance, taxes, government regulation, competition from other apartment complexes, mortgage rates for single-family housing and general and local economic conditions. In most of the markets in which the properties financed by our bonds are located, there is significant competition from other apartment complexes and from single-family housing that is either owned or leased by potential tenants. Low mortgage interest rates and federal tax credits make single-family housing more accessible to persons who may otherwise rent apartments. The value of the properties is the only source of repayment of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds. The principal of most of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds does not fully amortize over their terms. This means that all or some of the balance of the mortgage loans underlying these bonds will be repaid as a lump-sum “balloon” payment at the end of the term. The ability of the property owners to repay the mortgage loans with balloon payments is dependent upon their ability to sell the properties securing our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds or obtain adequate refinancing. The mortgage revenue bonds are not personal obligations of the property owners, and we rely solely on the value of the properties securing these bonds for security. Similarly, if a tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond goes into default, our only recourse is to foreclose on the underlying multifamily property. If the value of the underlying property securing the bond is less than the outstanding principal balance and accrued interest on the bond, we will suffer a loss. In the event a property securing a tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond is not sold prior to the maturity or remarketing of the bond, any contingent interest payable from the net sale or refinancing proceeds of the underlying property will be determined on the basis of the appraised value of the underlying property. Real estate appraisals represent only an estimate of the value of the property being appraised and are based on subjective determinations, such as the extent to which the properties used for comparison purposes are comparable to the property being evaluated and the rate at which a prospective purchaser would capitalize the cash flow of the property to determine a purchase price. Accordingly, such appraisals may result in us realizing less contingent interest from a tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond than we would have realized had the underlying property been sold. There is additional credit risk when we make a taxable loan on a property. The taxable mortgage loans that we make to owners of the apartment properties that secure tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds held by us are non-recourse obligations of the property owner. As a result, the sole source of principal and interest payments on these taxable loans is the net cash flow generated by these properties or the net proceeds from the sale of these properties. The net cash flow from the operation of a property may be affected by many things as discussed above. In addition, any payment of principal and interest on a taxable loan on a particular property will be subordinate to payment of all principal and interest (including contingent interest) on the tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond secured by the same property. As a result, there may be a higher risk of default on the taxable loans than on the associated tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds. If a property is unable to sustain net cash flow at a level necessary to pay current debt service obligations on the taxable loan on such property, a default may occur. While these taxable loans are secured by the underlying properties, in general, the Partnership does not expect to pursue foreclosure or other remedies against a property upon default of a taxable mortgage loan if the property is not in default on the tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds financing the property. 10There are risks associated with our strategy of acquiring ownership interests in MF Properties in anticipation of future tax-exempt bond financings of these projects. To facilitate our investment strategy of acquiring additional tax-exempt mortgage bonds secured by multifamily apartment properties, we may acquire ownership positions in MF Properties.We expect to ultimately sell these MF Properties to unaffiliated parties often as part of a syndication of LIHTCs after the expiration of the compliance period relating to existing LIHTCs issued with respect to the MF Properties. Our plan is to provide tax-exempt mortgage financing to the new property owners at the time of a syndication of new LIHTCs in connection with a rehabilitation of these MF Properties. The market for LIHTC syndications may be negatively affected from time to time by economic and market conditions. For this and other reasons, there is no assurance that the Partnership will be able to sell its interests in the MF Properties after the applicable LIHTC compliance period. In addition, the value of the Partnership's interest in MF Properties will be affected by the economic performance of the MF Properties and other factors generally affecting the value of residential rental properties. As a result, there is no assurance the Partnership will not incur a loss upon the sale of its interest in an MF Property. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be able to acquire tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds on the MF Properties even if we are able to sell our interests in the MF Properties. During the time the Partnership owns an interest in an MF Property, any net income it receives from these MF Properties will not be exempt from federal or state income taxation. Any future issuances of additional units could cause their market value to decline. The Partnership may issue additional units from time to time in order to raise additional equity capital. The issuance of additional units could cause dilution of the existing units and a decrease in the market price of the units. In addition, if additional units are issued but we are unable to invest the additional equity capital in assets that generate tax-exempt income at levels at least equivalent to our existing assets, the amount of cash available for distribution on a per unit basis may decline.We may suffer adverse consequences from changing interest rates. We have financed the acquisition of some of our assets using variable-rate debt financing. The interest that we pay on these financings fluctuates with a specific interest rate indices. All of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds bear interest at fixed rates and, notwithstanding the contingent interest feature on some of these bonds, the amount of interest we earn on these bonds will not increase with a general rise in interest rates. Accordingly, an increase in our interest expense due to an increase in the applicable interest rate index used for our variable rate debt financing will reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution to unitholders and may affect the market value of our units. The use of derivatives is designed to mitigate some but not all of the exposure to the negative impact of a higher cost of borrowing. An increase in interest rates could also decrease the value of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds. A decrease in the value of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds could also decrease the amount we could realize on the sale of our investments and would thereby decrease the amount of funds available for distribution to our unitholders.During periods of low prevailing interest rates, the interest rates we earn on new tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds that we acquire may be lower than the interest rates on our existing portfolio of tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds. To the extent we finance the acquisition of additional tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds through the issuance of additional units or from the proceeds from the sale of existing tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds and we earn a lower interest rate on these additional bonds, the amount of cash available for distribution on a per unit basis may be reduced. We are subject to various risks associated with our derivative agreements. We use derivative instruments, such as interest rate caps, to mitigate the risks we are exposed to as a result of changing interest rates. However, there is no assurance that these instruments will fully insulate the Partnership from the interest rate risks to which it is exposed. In addition, there are costs associated with these derivative instruments and there is no assurance these costs will not ultimately turn out to exceed the losses we would have suffered, if any, had these instruments not been in place. There is also a risk that a counterparty to such an instrument will be unable to perform its obligations to the Partnership. If a liquid secondary market does not exist for these instruments, we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses to the Partnership. In addition, we are required to record the fair value of these derivative instruments on our financial statements by recording changes in their values as interest earnings or expense. This can result in significant period to period volatility in the Partnership's reported net income over the term of these instruments. 11There are risks associated with debt financing programs that involve securitization of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds. We have obtained debt financing through the securitization of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds and may obtain this type of debt financing in the future. The terms of these securitization programs differ, but in general require that we deposit tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds into a trust or other special purpose entity that issues a senior security to unaffiliated investors and a residual interest to the Partnership. The trust or other entity receives all of the interest payments from its underlying tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds from which it pays interest on the senior security at a variable rate. As the holder of the residual interest, the Partnership is entitled to any remaining tax-exempt interest received by the trust after it has paid the full amount of interest due on the senior security and all of the expenses of the trust, including various fees to the trustee, remarketing agents and liquidity providers. Specific risks generally associated with these bond securitization programs include the following: Changes in short-term interest rates can adversely affect the cost of a bond securitization financing. The interest rate payable on the senior securities resets periodically based on a specified index usually tied to interest rates on short-term instruments. In addition, because the senior securities may typically be tendered back to the trust, causing the trust to remarket the senior securities from time to time, an increase in interest rates may require an increase to the interest rate paid on the senior securities in order to successfully remarket these securities. Any increase in interest rate payable on the senior securities will result in more of the underlying tax-exempt bond interest being used to pay interest on the senior securities leaving less tax-exempt bond interest available to the Partnership. As a result, higher short-term interest rates will reduce, and could even eliminate, the Partnership's return on a residual interest in this type of financing.Payments on the residual interests in these financing structures are subordinate to payments on the senior securities and to payment of trust expenses and no party guarantees the payment of any amounts under the residual interests. The residual interests in a trust or other special purpose entity used for these types of financing are subordinate to the senior securities sold to investors. As a result, none of the tax-exempt bond interest received by such a trust will be paid to the Partnership as the holder of a residual interest until all payments currently due on the senior securities have been paid in full and other trust expenses satisfied. The holder of a residual certificate in such a trust can look only to the assets of the trust remaining after payment of these senior obligations for payment on the residual certificates. No third party guarantees the payment of any amount on the residual certificates. Termination of a bond securitization financing can occur for a number of reasons which could cause the Partnership to lose the tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds and other collateral it pledged for such financing. In general, the trust or other special purpose entity formed for a bond securitization financing can terminate for a number of different reasons relating to problems with the bonds or problems with the trust itself. Problems with the bonds that could cause the trust to collapse include payment or other defaults or a determination that the interest on the bonds is taxable. Problems with a trust include a downgrade in the investment rating of the senior securities that it has issued, a ratings downgrade of the liquidity provider for the trust, increases in short term interest rates in excess of the interest paid on the underlying bonds, an inability to remarket the senior securities or an inability to obtain liquidity for the trust. In each of these cases, the trust will be collapsed and the tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds and other collateral held by the trusts will be sold. If the proceeds from the sale of the trust collateral are not sufficient to pay the principal amount of the senior securities with accrued interest and the other expenses of the trusts then the Partnership will be required, through its guarantee of the trusts, to fund any such shortfall. As a result, the Partnership, as holder of the residual interest in the trust, may not only lose its investment in the residual certificates but could also realize additional losses in order to fully repay trust obligations to the senior securities. An insolvency or receivership of the program sponsor could impair the Partnership's ability to recover the tax-exempt bonds and other collateral pledged by it in connection with a bond securitization financing. In the event the sponsor of a bond securitization financing program becomes insolvent, it could be placed in receivership. In that situation, it is possible that the Partnership would not be able to recover the tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds it pledged in connection with the bond securitization financing or that it would not receive all or any of the payments due from the trust or other special purpose entity on the residual interest held by the Partnership in such trust or other entity. 12Conditions in the credit markets may increase our cost of borrowing or may make financing difficult to obtain, each of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business. Economic conditions in international and domestic credit markets have been, and remain, challenging. Significantly tighter credit conditions and slower economic growth were experienced in 2011 and continued concerns about the systemic impact of high unemployment, restricted availability of credit, declining residential and commercial real estate markets, volatile energy prices, and overall business and consumer confidence have contributed to the economic downturn and it is unclear when and how quickly conditions and markets will improve. As a result of these economic conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected in all markets in which we operate. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease, to provide funding to borrowers. As a result, our access to debt and equity financing may be adversely affected. If these market and economic conditions continue, they may limit our ability to replace or renew maturing debt financing on a timely basis and may impair our access to capital markets to meet our liquidity and growth requirements which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds are illiquid assets and their value may decrease. The majority of our assets consist of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds. These mortgage revenue bonds are relatively illiquid, and there is no existing trading market for them. As a result, there are no market makers, price quotations or other indications of a developed trading market for these mortgage revenue bonds. In addition, no rating has been issued on any of the existing mortgage revenue bonds and we do not expect to obtain ratings on mortgage revenue bonds we may acquire in the future. Accordingly, any buyer of these mortgage revenue bonds would need to perform its own due diligence prior to a purchase. As a result, our ability to sell our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds, and the price we may receive upon their sale, will be affected by the number of potential buyers, the number of similar securities on the market at the time and a number of other market conditions. As a result, such a sale could result in a loss to us.The rent restrictions and occupant income limitations imposed on properties financed by our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds and on our MF Properties may limit the revenues of such properties. All of the apartment properties securing our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds and the MF Properties in which our subsidiaries hold indirect interests are subject to certain federal, state and/or local requirements with respect to the permissible income of their tenants. Since federal rent subsidies are not generally available on these properties, rents must be charged on a designated portion of the units at a level to permit these units to be continuously occupied by low or moderate income persons or families. As a result, these rents may not be sufficient to cover all operating costs with respect to these units and debt service on the applicable tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond. This may force the property owner to charge rents on the remaining units that are higher than they would be otherwise and may, therefore, exceed competitive rents. This may adversely affect the occupancy rate of a property securing an investment and the property owner's ability to service its debt. The properties financed by certain of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds are not completely insured against damages from hurricanes and other major storms. Five of the multifamily housing properties financed by tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds held by the Partnership are located in areas that are prone to damage from hurricanes and other major storms. The current insurable value of these five properties is approximately $78.3 million. Due to the significant losses incurred by insurance companies in recent years due to damages from hurricanes, many property and casualty insurers now require property owners to assume the risk of first loss on a larger percentage of their property's value. In general, the current insurance policies on the five properties financed by the Partnership that are located in areas rated for hurricane and storm exposure carry a 5% deductible on the insurable value of the properties. As a result, if any of these properties were damaged in a hurricane or other major storm, the amount of uninsured losses could be significant and the property owner may not have the resources to fully rebuild the property and this could result in a default on the tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds secured by the property. In addition, the damages to a property may result in all or a portion of the rental units not being rentable for a period of time. Unless a property owner carries rental interruption insurance, this loss of rental income would reduce the cash flow available to pay base or contingent interest on the Partnership's tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds collateralized by these properties. 13The properties securing our revenue bonds or the MF Properties may be subject to liability for environmental contamination which could increase the risk of default on such bonds or loss of our investment. The owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous substances released on its property. Various federal, state and local laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator of real property knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. We cannot assure you that the properties that secure our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds or the MF Properties in which our subsidiaries hold indirect interests, will not be contaminated. The costs associated with the remediation of any such contamination may be significant and may exceed the value of a property or result in the property owner defaulting on the revenue bond secured by the property or otherwise result in a loss of our investment in a property. If we acquire ownership of apartment properties we will be subject to all of the risks normally associated with the ownership of commercial real estate. We may acquire ownership of apartment complexes financed by tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds held by us in the event of a default on such bonds. We may also acquire indirect ownership of MF Properties on a temporary basis in order to facilitate the eventual acquisition by us of tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds on these apartment properties. In either case, during the time we own an apartment complex, we will generate taxable income or losses from the operations of such property rather than tax exempt interest. In addition, we will be subject to all of the risks normally associated with the operation of commercial real estate including declines in property value, occupancy and rental rates and increases in operating expenses. We may also be subject to government regulations, natural disasters and environmental issues, any of which could have an adverse effect on the Partnership's financial results and ability to make distributions to unitholders.There are a number of risks related to the construction of multifamily apartment properties that may affect the tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds issued to finance these properties.We may invest in tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds secured by multifamily housing properties which are still under construction. Construction of such properties generally takes approximately twelve to eighteen months. The principal risk associated with construction lending is that construction of the property will be substantially delayed or never completed. This may occur for a number of reasons including (i) insufficient financing to complete the project due to underestimated construction costs or cost overruns; (ii) failure of contractors or subcontractors to perform under their agreements; (iii) inability to obtain governmental approvals; (iv) labor disputes; and (v) adverse weather and other unpredictable contingencies beyond the control of the developer. While we may be able to protect ourselves from some of these risks by obtaining construction completion guarantees from developers, agreements of construction lenders to purchase our bonds if construction is not completed on time, and/or payment and performance bonds from contractors, we may not be able to do so in all cases or such guarantees or bonds may not fully protect us in the event a property is not completed. In other cases, we may decide to forego certain types of available security if we determine that the security is not necessary or is too expensive to obtain in relation to the risks covered. If a property is not completed, or costs more to complete than anticipated, it may cause us to receive less than the full amount of interest owed to us on the tax-exempt bond financing such property or otherwise result in a default under the mortgage loan that secures our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond on the property. In such case, we may be forced to foreclose on the incomplete property and sell it in order to recover the principal and accrued interest on our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond and we may suffer a loss of capital as a result. Alternatively, we may decide to finance the remaining construction of the property, in which event we will need to invest additional funds into the property, either as equity or as a taxable loan. Any return on this additional investment would not be tax-exempt. Also, if we foreclose on a property, we will no longer receive tax-exempt interest on the bond issued to finance the property. The overall return to the Partnership from its investment in such property is likely to be less than if the construction had been completed on time or within budget.There are a number of risks related to the lease-up of newly constructed or renovated properties that may affect the tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds issued to finance these properties.We may acquire tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds issued to finance properties in various stages of construction or renovation. As construction or renovation is completed, these properties will move into the lease-up phase. The lease-up of these properties may not be completed on schedule or at anticipated rent levels, resulting in a greater risk that these investments may go into default than investments secured by mortgages on properties that are stabilized or fully leased-up. The underlying property may not achieve expected occupancy or debt service coverage levels. While we may require property developers to provide us with a guarantee covering operating deficits of the property during the lease-up phase, we may not be able to do so in all cases or such guarantees may not fully protect us in the event a property is not leased up to an adequate level of economic occupancy as anticipated. 14We have assumed certain potential liability relating to recapture of tax credits on MF Properties. The Partnership has acquired indirect interests in several MF Properties that generated LIHTCs for the previous partners in these partnerships. When the Partnership acquires an interest in an MF Property, it generally must agree to reimburse the prior partners for any liabilities they incur due to a recapture of LIHTCs that result from the failure to operate the MF Property in a manner consistent with the laws and regulations relating to LIHTCs after the Partnership acquired its interest in the MF Property. The amount of this recapture liability can be substantial. The Partnership is not registered under the Investment Company Act. The Partnership is not required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”) because it operates under an exemption therefrom. As a result, none of the protections of the Investment Company Act (disinterested directors, custody requirements for securities, and regulation of the relationship between a fund and its advisor) will be applicable to the Partnership. The Partnership engages in transactions with related parties. Each of the executive officers of Burlington and four of the managers of Burlington hold equity positions in Burlington. A subsidiary of Burlington acts as the General Partner and manages our investments and performs administrative services for us and earns certain fees that are either paid by the properties financed by our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds or by us. Another subsidiary of Burlington provides on-site management for many of the multifamily apartment properties that underlie our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds and each of our MF Properties and earns fees from the property owners based on the gross revenues of these properties. The owners of the limited-purpose corporations which own four of the apartment properties financed with tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds and taxable loans held by the Partnership are employees of Burlington who are not involved in the operation or management of the Partnership and who are not executive officers or managers of Burlington. Because of these relationships, our agreements with Burlington and its subsidiaries are related-party transactions. By their nature, related-party transactions may not be considered to have been negotiated at arm's length. These relationships may also cause a conflict of interest in other situations where we are negotiating with Burlington. Unitholders may incur tax liability if any of the interest on our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds is determined to be taxable. Certain of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds bear interest at rates which include contingent interest. Payment of the contingent interest depends on the amount of net cash flow generated by, and net proceeds realized from a sale of, the property securing the bond. Due to this contingent interest feature, an issue may arise as to whether the relationship between the property owner and us is that of debtor and creditor or whether we are engaged in a partnership or joint venture with the property owner. If the IRS were to determine that tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds represented an equity investment in the underlying property, the interest paid to us could be viewed as a taxable return on such investment and would not qualify as tax-exempt interest for federal income tax purposes. We have obtained legal opinions to the effect that the base interest paid on our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds is excludable from gross income for federal income tax purposes provided the interest is not paid to a “substantial user” or “related person” as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. However, these legal opinions are not binding on the IRS or the courts, and no assurances can be given that the conclusions reached will not be contested by the IRS or, if contested, will be sustained by a court. In addition, the tax-exempt status of the interest paid on our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds is subject to compliance by the underlying properties, and the owners thereof, with the bond documents and covenants required by the bond-issuing authority and the Internal Revenue Code. Among these requirements are tenant income restrictions, regulatory agreement compliance, reporting requirements, use of proceeds restrictions and compliance with rules pertaining to interest arbitrage. Each issuer of the revenue bonds, as well as each of the underlying property owners/borrowers, has agreed to comply with procedures and guidelines designed to ensure satisfaction with the continuing requirements of the Internal Revenue Code. Failure to comply with these continuing requirements of the Internal Revenue Code may cause the interest on our bonds to be includable in gross income for federal income tax purposes retroactively to the date of issuance, regardless of when such noncompliance occurs. In addition, we have, and may in the future, obtain debt financing through bond securitization programs in which we place tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds into trusts and are entitled to a share of the tax-exempt interest received by the trust on these bonds after the payment of interests on senior securities issued by the trust, it is possible that the characterization of our residual interest in such a securitization trust could be challenged and the income that we receive through these instruments could be treated as ordinary taxable income includable in our gross income for federal tax purposes. 15Not all of the income received by the Partnership is exempt from taxation. We have made, and may make in the future, taxable mortgage loans to the owners of properties which are secured by tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds that we hold. The interest income earned by the Partnership on these mortgage loans is subject to federal and state income taxes. In addition, if we acquire direct or indirect interests in real estate, either through foreclose of a property securing a tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond or a taxable loan or through the acquisition of an MF Property, any income we receive from the property will be taxable income from the operation of real estate. In that case, the taxable income received by the Partnership will be allocated to our unitholders and will represent taxable income to them regardless of whether an amount of cash equal to such allocable share of this taxable income is actually distributed to unitholders. If the Partnership was determined to be an association taxable as corporation, it will have adverse economic consequences for the Partnership and its unitholders. The Partnership has made an election to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The purpose of this election is to eliminate federal and state income tax liability for the Partnership and allow us to pass through our tax-exempt interest to our unitholders so that they are not subject to federal tax on this income. If our treatment as a partnership for tax purposes is challenged, we would be classified as an association taxable as a corporation. This would result in the Partnership being taxed on its taxable income, if any, and, in addition, would result in all cash distributions made by the Partnership to unitholders being treated as taxable ordinary dividend income to the extent of the Partnership's earnings and profits, which would include tax-exempt income. The payment of these dividends would not be deductible by the Partnership. The listing of the Partnership's units for trading on the Nasdaq Global Market causes the Partnership to be treated as a “publicly traded partnership” under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code. A publicly traded partnership is generally taxable as a corporation unless 90% or more of its gross income is “qualifying” income. Qualifying income includes interest, dividends, real property rents, gain from the sale or other disposition of real property, gain from the sale or other disposition of capital assets held for the production of interest or dividends and certain other items. Substantially all of the Partnership's gross income will continue to be tax-exempt interest income on mortgage bonds. While we believe that all of this interest income is qualifying income, it is possible that some or all of our income could be determined not to be qualifying income. In such a case, if more than 10% of our annual gross income in any year is not qualifying income, the Partnership will be taxable as a corporation rather than a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not received, and do not intend to seek, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service regarding our status as a partnership for tax purposes. To the extent the Partnership generates taxable income; unitholders will be subject to income taxes on this income, whether or not they receive cash distributions. As a partnership, our unitholders will be individually liable for income tax on their proportionate share of any taxable income realized by the Partnership, whether or not we make cash distributions. There are limits on the ability of our unitholders to deduct Partnership losses and expenses allocated to them. The ability of unitholders to deduct their proportionate share of the losses and expenses generated by the Partnership will be limited in certain cases, and certain transactions may result in the triggering of the Alternative Minimum Tax for unitholders who are individuals.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None