risk factors described in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the Company’s other periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 2 In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed may not occur. Accordingly, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Investors should, however, review additional disclosures made by the Company from time to time in its periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated herein by reference should be read completely and with the understanding that the Company’s actual future results may be materially different from what the Company expects. All forward-looking statements made by the Company in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the Company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission are qualified by these cautionary statements. 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Overview LMI Aerospace, Inc. is a leading provider of structural components, assemblies and kits to the aerospace, defense and technology industries. We fabricate, machine, finish and integrate formed, close tolerance aluminum and specialty alloy components and sheet metal products primarily for large commercial, corporate and military aircraft. We manufacture more than 30,000 products for integration into a variety of aircraft platforms manufactured by leading original equipment manufacturers, referred to as OEMs, and Tier 1 aerospace suppliers, including Gulfstream, Boeing, Bombardier, Sikorsky, Vought Aircraft and Spirit AeroSystems. We are the sole source provider, under long-term agreements, for many of the products that we provide. Our primary aerospace products include: · leading edge wing slats and flapskins; · winglets; · fuselage and wing skins; · helicopter cabin and aft section components and assemblies; · wing panels; · door components and assemblies and components; and floorbeams; · thrust reversers and engine nacelles/cowlings; · cockpit window frames and landing lights; · detail interior components; · structural sheet metal and extruded components; and · auxiliary power units. We also provide our customers with value-added services related to the production, assembly and distribution of aerospace components, as well as delivering kits of products directly to customer points of use. We believe these value-added services strengthen our position as a preferred supplier by improving overall production efficiencies and value for our customers. These services include: · kitting; · assembly; · just-in-time distribution; · prototyping and warehousing; · polishing and painting; · engineered tool design, fabrication and repair; · heat treating and aging of components; · manufacturing producibility design; · chemical milling; and · metal finishing. In addition to aerospace products, we produce components and assemblies for laser equipment used by semiconductor and medical equipment manufacturers in the technology industry. We also provide prototyping and design capabilities to these customers to support new product development. We were founded over 57 years ago as a manufacturer of components to the large commercial aircraft market of the aerospace industry. In recent years we have expanded our capabilities and diversified our operations through a number of acquisitions and business initiatives. For example, in 2001, we acquired the operating assets of Tempco Engineering, Inc. This acquisition expanded our aerospace product line and added technology components used in semiconductor and medical equipment. In 2002, we acquired Versaform Corporation and Southern Stretch Forming and Fabrication, Inc., producers of large formed metal components for the regional jet, business jet and military markets of the aerospace industry. 4 equipment. In 2002, we acquired Versaform Corporation and Southern Stretch Forming and Fabrication, Inc., producers of large formed metal components for the regional jet, business jet and military markets of the aerospace industry. We were organized as a Missouri corporation in 1948. Our principal executive offices are located at 3600 Mueller Road, St. Charles, Missouri 63301. Our Internet address is www.lmiaerospace.com. Interested readers can access the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, through the Securities and Exchange Commission website at www.sec.gov. Such reports are generally available on the day they are filed. Additionally, the Company will furnish interested readers a paper copy of such reports, upon request, free of charge. See "Risk Factors" beginning on page 14 for a description of certain risks relevant to our business. Industry Overview We believe we are well positioned to benefit from several aerospace industry trends, such as the continued outsourcing of components and assemblies by aircraft manufacturers to fewer preferred suppliers and increased aircraft production across the large commercial, corporate and military markets. OEMs and Tier 1 aerospace suppliers continue to outsource component and assembly production to aerospace suppliers. This trend, which began in the mid-1990s, allows aircraft manufacturers to focus primarily on the design, development, integration and marketing of finished aircraft to their customers. In addition, these companies have formed relationships with an increasingly smaller number of preferred suppliers in order to improve quality and service levels and reduce purchasing costs. We continue to benefit from this trend as OEMs and Tier 1 aerospace suppliers continue to select us based on our breadth of manufacturing capabilities and value-added services, our ability to manage large production programs and our long-standing reputation for quality and reliability. We believe production of large commercial aircraft is being driven by the return to pre-9/11 airline passenger levels, the need for airlines to upgrade fleets to more efficient aircraft models and the growth of low-cost and foreign airlines. Strong corporate profits continue to fuel corporate aircraft sales growth. In addition, we believe the U.S. military's extensive use of rotary wing aircraft (helicopters) during recent military operations and an aging aircraft fleet is expected to drive continued production of replacement aircraft. We have actively expanded our customer relationships to diversify our business across the large commercial aircraft, corporate, regional and military aircraft markets. In addition to increased sales, we believe increased aircraft production could result in a significant increase in profitability based on our current operational structure. Large Commercial. According to "The Airline Monitor," production in the large commercial aircraft market, comprised of aircraft with 100 or more seats, is expected to increase through 2010, driven by orders from domestic and international low-cost airlines, as well as other full-service Asian and Middle Eastern airlines. We believe the continued economic recovery, return of business confidence and corporate investment, and increase in world-wide leisure travel are contributing to demand for more fuel-efficient, new generation aircraft. "The Airline Monitor" provides that global air travel, as measured by revenue passenger miles, referred to as RPMs, is expected to increase from 2.5 billion RPMs in 2005 to 3.2 billion RPMs in 2010, an average annual growth rate of 5.3%. This publication also provides that large commercial aircraft deliveries are expected to increase from 680 in 2005 to 855 in 2010, an average annual growth rate of 4.7%; and projected annual delivery rates for Boeing 737, 777 and 787 aircraft, which are core platforms for our products, are expected to be in line with overall large commercial aircraft delivery rates. 5 Corporate and Regional. We believe continued strong U.S. corporate profits and enhanced productivity through the use of corporate aircraft are expected to drive business jet deliveries through 2010. According to The Teal Group, approximately 7,417 new business jets are projected for delivery between 2005 and 2014, an average of 742 per year, as compared to approximately 5,461 business jets delivered from 1995 to 2004, an average of 546 per year. They also estimate projected annual deliveries for Gulfstream G-350 - G-550 series aircraft, which are core platforms for our products, to be in excess of 60 units per year from 2006 to 2010. The regional jet market experienced tremendous growth in the late 1990s through 2001 as regional and short haul point-to-point airline travel increased. In recent years, demand has shifted from traditional 50-seat regional jets to larger 70-90-seat aircraft. We believe while a decline in regional jet deliveries is expected for 2006, longer term growth in the market is expected. Military. According to the "National Defense Budget Estimates for FY 2006," the U.S. Department of Defense procurement budget for military aircraft is expected to increase at an average annual growth rate of 7.9% from 2005 to 2010. We believe an aging aircraft fleet and increased military operations are expected to lead to the replacement or overhaul of heavily used aircraft, especially helicopter and airlift aircraft. We also believe the shift in U.S. military doctrine to smaller, more mobile units of action should continue to drive the need for more military helicopters. The Teal Group estimates that deliveries for the Sikorsky UH-60 Black Hawk, one of our core programs, should increase from 44 units in 2005 to 86 units in 2010, an average annual growth rate of 14.3%. Recent Developments Filing of a Registration Statement for Public Offering. On January 19, 2006, we filed a registration statement, as amended on March 13, 2006, with the Securities and Exchange Commission that was declared effective on March 23, 2006 relating to a proposed public offering of 2,900,000 shares of our common stock. We offered 2,300,000 shares of common stock and certain selling shareholders offered 600,000 shares. Pursuant to the registration statement, we granted to the underwriters a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 435,000 shares of common stock, which the underwriters exercised on March 27, 2006. The offering, including the option shares, was concluded on March 29, 2006. We received net proceeds from the offering, including the option shares, of approximately $39.4 million. We intend to use such net proceeds as follows: · approximately $9 million to pay all of the indebtedness outstanding under the revolving line of credit component of our credit facility, including accrued and unpaid interest thereon; · approximately $3.4 million to reduce the principal amount of indebtedness outstanding under our real estate term loan component of our credit facility, including accrued and unpaid interest thereon; · to prepay the outstanding $1 million aggregate principal amount of certain subordinated promissory notes, including accrued and unpaid interest thereon; and · the remainder for general corporate purposes, which may include working capital, capital expenditures and potential acquisitions of complementary businesses, products and technologies. Acquisition of Technical Change Associates, Inc. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company acquired Technical Change Associates, Inc. (TCA), a provider of lean manufacturing, facility layout and business planning consulting services. TCA is based in Ogden, Utah. The impact of this acquisition is not material to the Company’s financial statements. 6 Amendment to Credit and Security Agreement. On February 15, 2006, we entered into the First Amendment to Credit and Security Agreement to our Credit and Security Agreement with Wells Fargo Business Credit, Inc. dated November 29, 2004. This amendment, among other things, (i) extends the maturity date of the Credit and Security Agreement to November 15, 2009, (ii) reduces certain interest rates and (iii) increases the amount of the revolving line of credit component of the Credit and Security Agreement from $18,000,000 to $23,250,000, including a $3,000,000 overadvance facility reducing in amount monthly and expiring March 1, 2009. Business Segments We divide our business into two segments, the Sheet Metal segment and the Machining and Technology segment. The Sheet Metal segment, which is our dominant segment, services the aerospace and commercial sheet metal industries and is comprised of all of our subsidiaries other than Tempco. The Sheet Metal segment accounted for $86.2 million, or 85.3%, of our net sales in 2005. The Machining and Technology segment serves the aerospace and technology industries and accounted for $14.9 million, or 14.7%, of our net sales in 2005. Please see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for specific financial information relating to the Company’s business segments. Customers and Products Customers The principal customers serviced by our Sheet Metal segment are leading OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers in the large commercial, corporate and military aircraft markets of the aerospace industry. Through December 31, 2005, direct sales to our top six customers (Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation, Spirit AeroSystems, Boeing Company, Vought Aircraft Industries, Lockheed Martin Corporation and Bombardier, Inc.) accounted for a total of approximately 72% of the segment's sales. We seek to enter into long-term agreements whereby the purchaser commits to purchase all of its requirements of a particular component from us. When operating under these agreements, our customers issue purchase orders or provide a shipment signal to schedule delivery of products at a previously negotiated price. Our products sold outside of long-term agreements are based upon previously negotiated pricing and specific terms and conditions on purchase orders. Products We fabricate, machine and integrate formed, close tolerance aluminum and specialty alloy components for use by the aerospace, technology and commercial sheet metal industries. All of our components and assemblies are based on designs and specifications prepared and furnished by our customers. Because we manufacture thousands of components, no one component accounts for a significant portion of our sales. The following table describes some of the principal products manufactured by each of our segments and the models into which they are integrated: Product Models Sheet Metal Segment Leading edge wing slats and flapskins Gulfstream: G-350, G-450, Boeing: 737, 777, 787 Bombardier: Learjet 45 & 60, Challenger 300/604/ 605 Dash-8, CRJ 200/700/900 Cessna: Citation X Winglets Boeing: 737, 757 7 Fuselage and wing skins Gulfstream: G-350, G-450, G-550, Boeing: 717, 737, 747, 757, 767, 777 Bombardier: Learjet 45 & 60, Dash-8, CRJ 200/700/900 Lockheed: F-16 Fighting Falcon, C-130 Hercules Cessna: Citation III Helicopter cabin and aft section components and assemblies Sikorsky: UH-60 Black Hawk Wing panels Boeing: 747 Bombardier: CRJ 200/700/900 Door components, assemblies and floorbeams Gulfstream: G-350, G-450 Boeing: 737, 747, 757 Bombardier: Challenger 604 Lockheed: F-16 Fighting Falcon, C-130 Hercules Thrust reversers and engine nacelles/cowlings Gulfstream: G-350, G-450 Boeing Commercial: 737, 747, 777 Boeing Defense: B-52 Buffalo Bombardier: CL415 Detail interior components Gulfstream: G-350, G-450, G-550 Boeing: 737, 727, 747, 757, 767, 777 Lockheed: C-130 Cockpit window frames and landing light lens Assemblies Gulfstream: G-350, G-450 Boeing: 737, 747, 767, 777, MD-80, KC-10 Bombardier: Learjet 45 & 60, Challenger 300 Lockheed: F-16 Fighting Falcon Cessna: Citation III, VII and Excel Structural sheet metal and extruded components Gulfstream: G-350, G-450, G-550 Boeing Commercial: 737, 727, 747, 757, 767, 777 Boeing Defense: F-15 Eagle, F/A-18 Hornet, C-17 Globemaster Bombardier: CRJ 200/700/900, Global Express Lockheed:F-16 Fighting Falcon, C-130 Hercules Auxiliary power units Gulfstream: G-550 Boeing: V-22 Osprey Embraer: ERJ Machining and Technology Segment Housings and assemblies for gun turrets Boeing: AH-64 Apache Various components and assemblies Gulfstream: G-550 Fans, heat exchangers, and various assemblies Cymer: ELS 7000, ELS 6010, XLA 100 IntraLase: FS Laser 8 See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview" for detailed information regarding the revenues contributed by market segment. Manufacturing Process We organize our manufacturing facilities by work centers focusing on a particular manufacturing process. Depending on the component, we utilize either a forming process or a machining process. Each work center is staffed by a team of operators who are supported by a supervisor, lead operators and quality inspectors. Throughout each stage of the manufacturing and finishing processes, we collect, maintain and evaluate data, including customer design inputs, process scheduling, material inventory, labor, inspection results and completion and delivery dates. Our information systems employ this data to provide accurate pricing and scheduling information to our customers as well as to establish production standards used to measure internal performance. We manufacture some components for the Sheet Metal segment using several forming processes including: · fluid cell press; · sheet metal and extrusion stretch; · skin stretch; · stretch draw; · hot joggle; · drop hammer; · brake forming; and · roll forming. These processes shape or form aluminum, stainless steel or titanium sheet metal and extrusion, known as a work piece, into components by applying pressure through impact, stretching or pressing, which cause the work piece to conform to a die. The shapes may be simple with a single angle, bend or curve, or may be complex with compound contours having multiple bends and angles. Some processes incorporate heat to soften the metal prior to or during forming. The other products manufactured by the Sheet Metal segment and virtually all of our Machining and Technology segment products are produced using close tolerance machining methods. These methods involve the machining of various metals, such as stainless, aluminum, monel, kevlar and numerous varieties of steel and castings. We have the capability of machining steel and castings in both heat-treated and non-heat-treated conditions. The parts we manufacture using this method are typically small to medium sized parts. We process parts through conventional and computer numerical control machining methods, also known as CNC, from raw material or castings up to and through assembly processes. In addition, complex machining of parts is accomplished through experience in engineering set-ups to produce intricate and close tolerances with very restricted finish requirements. Each machining facility is also set up to complete turnkey, research and development projects to better support engineering changes from customers. Value-Added Services In addition to the products we sell, each segment offers various value-added services that are intended to result in both cost and time savings. These services include: 9 · kitting; · assembly; · just-in-time distribution; · prototyping and warehousing; · polishing and painting; · engineered tool design, fabrication and repair; · heat treating and aging of components; · manufacturing producibility design; · chemical milling; and · metal finishing. Also, our distribution facilities in Savannah, Georgia and Tulsa, Oklahoma are designed to kit manufactured components and deliver to customer points of use. Backlog The Company’s backlog for each of its business segments is displayed in the following table: As of December 31, (in millions) 2003 2004 2005 Sheet Metal Segment Total $ 42.7 $ 82.1 $ 98.3 Portion deliverable within 12 months $ 36.4 $ 65.3 $ 87.2 Machining and Technology Segment Total $ 11.2 $ 12.0 $ 7.6 Portion deliverable within 12 months $ 11.0 $ 12.0 $ 5.6 Our customers often modify purchase orders to accelerate or delay delivery dates. The level of unfilled orders at any given time during the year will be materially affected by our customers' provisioning policies, the timing of our receipt of orders and the speed with which those orders are filled. Moreover, sales during any period may include sales that are not part of the backlog at the end of the prior period. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business - We may not realize all of the sales expected from our existing backlog.” Raw Materials and Procurement Practices We manufacture the majority of our components from aerospace quality aluminum sheet metal and extrusion. We also use steel, titanium, inconel, monel and other metals to support the balance of our components. We purchase the majority of these materials through a contract we have negotiated with a distributor and contracts certain of our customers have negotiated with distributors. These contracts are designed to provide an adequate supply of material at predictable pricing levels. If supply is not available or we need a product that is not covered under these agreements, we use a variety of mills and distributors to support our needs. We believe that currently there are adequate alternative sources of supply. Quality Assurance and Control Our Aerospace Quality Systems are continuously reviewed and updated to comply with the requirements of ISO9001-2000/AS9100 Revision B and Nadcap (National Aerospace and Defense Contractors Accreditation Program) special processes quality requirements. The continuous review and 10 updating of our processes has allowed our fabrication facilities, with third party ISO9001-2000/AS9100 registrations from National Quality Assurance, USA and Perry Johnson Registrars and Performance Review Institute to maintain those certifications for 2005 and beyond This attention to quality system and business processes has allowed us to remain an approved supplier for many of the leading OEM and Tier 1 suppliers such as Gulfstream, Boeing, Bombardier, Sikorsky Aircraft, Vought Aircraft, Spirit AeroSystems, Lockheed Martin, Cessna, Raytheon, Goodrich, Hamilton Sundstrand and others. Our quality systems include the quality review of work order masters and outside purchase orders to ensure that the flow-down of our customer's requirements are being addressed both internally and externally. The quality review of the work order master also ensures that the necessary inspection operations are properly located within the work order to verify and control the outcome of the fabrication processes. We use an ongoing employee training program and lean manufacturing techniques to assist employees in becoming familiar with any changes in our procedures or special customer requirements. We use a robust internal auditing program for each of the facilities to ensure that the training is effective and to ensure ongoing compliance to industry and customer required standards. The internal auditing is provided by a combination of Quality Engineer/Auditors located in some of our facilities or by Corporate Quality Engineer/Auditors traveling to our facilities to perform internal audits. All our quality auditors have completed Registrar Accreditation Board approved Lead Auditor training and have been observed by a Corporate Quality Engineer/Auditor. We utilize a first part buy-off at each operation during the fabrication process as well as a 100% final inspection of parts to verify their compliance with the customer's configuration requirements. We use the AS9102 Rev A standard and forms to perform First Article Inspections. Our Corporate Quality Group maintains our Approved Supplier List (APL) for all facilities. This includes reviewing surveys, performing on-site audits and constant monitoring of customer APL's to verify that suppliers are maintaining their customers' direct approvals. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing group targets four market sectors: Corporate and Regional Aircraft, Large Commercial Aircraft, Military Aircraft and Non-Aerospace. We utilize one Sales and Marketing Director and six Program Managers to support these sectors. Currently, the position of Sales and Marketing Director is vacant. At each of our facilities, customer service representatives establish and maintain a business relationship between customers and our production and fabrication business units with a focus on customer satisfaction. Additionally, we retain two independent sales representatives. Awards of new work are generally preceded by receipt of a request for quotation, referred to as an RFQ. Upon receipt, the RFQ is preliminarily reviewed by a team consisting of members of senior management, a Program Manager, an estimator and plant management. If our team determines the program is adequately compatible with our capabilities and objectives, we prepare a formal response. A substantial percentage of new programs are awarded on a competitive bid basis. Competition Our competitors in the aerospace industry consist of a large fragmented group of companies, including certain business units or affiliates of our customers. However, we are unaware of any single company in the aerospace industry that competes in all of our processes. We believe competition within the aerospace industry will increase substantially as a result of industry consolidations and trends favoring greater outsourcing of components and the reduction of the number of preferred suppliers. We also believe participants in the aerospace industry compete primarily with respect to delivery, price and quality. 11 Unlike the aerospace industry, we believe there are only a few producers of components similar to the principal technology components manufactured by our Machining and Technology segment. We believe engineering capability, responsiveness and price are key aspects of competition in the technology industry. In all of our industries, some of our competitors, including business units affiliated with our customers, have substantially greater financial, production and other resources than us. We also believe that foreign aerospace manufacturers are becoming an increasing source of competition, due largely to foreign manufacturers' access to low-cost labor. Within the aerospace industry the prevalence of industry participation commitments, pursuant to which domestic OEMs agree to award production work to manufacturers from a foreign country in order to obtain orders from that country are also driving this trend. Governmental Regulations, Environmental Compliance Our operations are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state and local laws and substantial regulation by government agencies, including the United States Environmental Protection Agency, the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Federal Aviation Administration. Among other matters, these agencies impose requirements that regulate the handling, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials generated or used by us during the normal course of our operations, govern the health and safety of our employees and require that we meet standards and licensing requirements for aerospace components. This extensive regulatory framework imposes significant compliance burdens and risks and, as a result, may substantially affect our operational costs. In addition, we may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous substances released on or in our facilities without regard to whether or not we knew of, or caused, the release of such substances. We believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations and we are not aware of any material environmental violations at any of our current or former facilities. There can be no assurance, however, that our prior activities did not create a material environmental situation for which we could be responsible or that future uses or conditions (including, without limitation, changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations, or an increase in the amount of hazardous substances generated or used by our operations) will not result in any material environmental liability to us or result in a material adverse effect to our financial condition or results of operations. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we had 673 permanent employees, of whom 13 were engaged in executive positions, 97 were engaged in administrative positions and 563 were engaged in manufacturing operations. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement, and we have not experienced any material business interruption as a result of labor disputes since our inception. We believe we have an excellent relationship with our employees. We strive to continuously train and educate our employees, which enhances the skill and flexibility of our work force. Through the use of internally developed programs, which include formal classroom and on-the-job, hands-on training, lean manufacturing training developed jointly with external resources and tuition reimbursement programs we fund, we seek to attract, develop and retain the personnel necessary to achieve our growth and profitability objectives 12 Seasonality The Company does not generally experience any seasonality in the demand for its products. Geographic Operations The Company derives less than ten percent of its sales from foreign sources. 13 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks and other information contained in or incorporated by reference in our Annual Report on Form 10-K when evaluating our business and financial condition. Although the risks described below are the risks that we believe are material, there may also be risks of which we are currently unaware, or that we currently regard as immaterial based on the information available to us that later prove to be material. These risks may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Our Business Sales to a limited number of customers represent a significant portion of our revenues and our long-term agreements with these customers are generally terminable upon written notice. As of December 31, 2005, 72% of our aggregate sales were dependent upon relationships with six major customers: Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation, Spirit AeroSystems, Boeing Company, Vought Aircraft Industries, Lockheed Martin Corporation and Bombardier, Inc. Although a majority of our sales, including sales to these customers, are made pursuant to long-term agreements, these agreements are generally terminable upon written notice by the customer and typically do not require the customer to purchase any specific quantity of products. As a result, our sales under these agreements may not continue for the full term of the agreements or be consistent with historical sales levels. Additionally, the loss of any one of these customers, or a significant reduction in the amount of orders received from any one of these customers, could cause a significant decrease in our net sales and profitability. We anticipate that a small number of large customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. See “Business — Competition.” We may experience cost over-runs related to orders for new products and changes to existing products, and may be unable to recoup the resulting increased costs. We generally sell our products under multi-year firm agreements on a fixed-price basis, regardless of our production costs. As a result, factors such as inaccurate pricing, manufacturing inefficiencies, start-up costs and increases in the cost of labor, materials or overhead may result in cost over-runs and losses on those agreements. We may not succeed in obtaining the agreement of a customer to reprice a particular product, and we may not be able to recoup previous losses resulting from incomplete or inaccurate engineering data or out-of-tolerance tooling. We may not realize all of the sales expected from our existing backlog. At December 31, 2005, we had $106 million of order backlog. We consider backlog to be firm customer orders for future delivery. From time to time, our OEM customers provide projections of components and assemblies that they anticipate purchasing in the future under new and existing programs. These projections are not included in our backlog unless we have received a firm purchase order from our customers. Our customers may have the right, under certain circumstances and with certain penalties or consequences, to terminate, reduce or defer firm orders that we have in backlog. If our customers terminate, reduce or defer firm orders, we may be protected from certain costs and losses, but our sales will nevertheless be adversely affected. Given the nature of our industry and customers, there is always a risk that orders may be cancelled or rescheduled due to fluctuation in our customer’s business needs or purchasing budgets. Moreover, our realization of sales from new and existing programs is inherently subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties, including the possibility that our customers will not launch programs on time, or at all, the number of units that our customers will actually produce will change and the timing of production will be altered. Also, until firm orders are pledged, our customers generally have the right to discontinue a program or replace us with another supplier at any time without penalty. Our failure to realize sales from new and existing programs would adversely impact our net sales, results of operations and cash flow. 14 We may be required to risk our capital to continue existing partnerships or develop new strategic partnerships with OEMs. Many OEMs are moving toward developing strategic, and sometimes risk-sharing, partnerships with their larger suppliers. Each strategic partner provides an array of integrated services including purchasing, warehousing and assembly for OEM customers. We have been designated as a strategic partner by some OEMs and are striving to become a strategic partner of other OEMs. In order to maintain our current strategic partnerships and establish new ones, we may need to expand our existing capacities or capabilities. We may not, however, have the financial ability or technical expertise to do so. Moreover, many new aircraft programs require that major suppliers become risk-sharing partners, so that the cost of design, development and engineering work associated with the development of the aircraft is borne in part by the supplier, usually in exchange for a long-term agreement to supply critical parts. Demand for our defense-related products depends upon government spending. A material portion of our sales is derived from the military market. The military market is largely dependent upon government budgets, particularly the U.S. defense budget. The funding of government programs is subject to Congressional appropriation. Although multi-year contracts may be authorized in connection with major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis, even though a program may be expected to continue for several years. Consequently, programs, including those that require our components, are often only partially funded or never enter full-scale production as expected. As a result, future U.S. defense spending may not be allocated to programs that would benefit our business or at levels that we had anticipated. A decrease in levels of defense spending or the government’s termination of, or failure to fully fund, one or more of the contracts for the programs in which we participate would adversely impact our revenues and cash flow. Our long-term success and growth strategy depend on our senior management and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. We have written employment agreements with our senior management that expire on December 31, 2007. We also maintain key man life insurance policies on the lives of certain members of senior management. The loss of service of one or more of our senior management personnel, however, could result in a loss of leadership and an inability to successfully pursue our long-term success and growth strategy. Our success and future growth also depend on management’s ability to attract, hire, train, integrate and retain qualified personnel in all areas of our business. Competition for such personnel is intense, and our inability to adequately staff our operations with qualified personnel could render us less efficient and decrease our rate of production. In addition, rising costs associated with certain employee benefits, in particular employee health coverage, could limit our ability to provide certain employee benefits in the future. If we are unable to provide a competitive employee benefits package, recruiting and retaining qualified personnel may become more difficult. We use sophisticated equipment that is not easily repaired or replaced, and therefore equipment failures could cause us to be unable to meet quality or delivery expectations of our customers. Many of our manufacturing processes are dependent on sophisticated equipment used to meet the strict tolerance requirements of our customers. Because sophisticated equipment generally is not easily repaired or replaced, unexpected failures of this equipment could result in production delays or the manufacturing of defective products. Our ability to meet the expectations of our customers with respect to on-time delivery of quality products is critical. Our failure to meet the quality or delivery expectations of our customers could lead to the loss of one or more of our significant customers. 15 The use by end-users of the product platforms into which our components are integrated could expose us to product liability claims. We may be exposed to possible claims of personal injury, death, grounding costs, property damage or other liabilities that result from the failure or malfunction of any component or assembly fabricated by us. We currently have in place policies for products liability and premises insurance, which we believe provides adequate coverage in amounts and on terms that are generally consistent with industry practice. Nevertheless, to the extent a claim is made against us that is not covered in whole or in part by our current insurance, we may be subject to a material loss. Moreover, any claims that are covered by our policies will likely cause our premiums to increase, and we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage levels in the future. Our facilities are located in regions that are affected by natural disasters. Several of our facilities are located in regions that have an increased risk of earthquake activity, and one of our facilities has experienced damage due to floods. Although we maintain earthquake and flood loss insurance where necessary, an earthquake, flood or other natural disaster could disrupt our business, result in significant recovery costs and cause our productivity to decrease. We may be required to record material impairment charges for goodwill (all of which is related to our acquisition of Tempco), which would reduce our net income and earnings per share. Current accounting standards require a periodic review of goodwill for impairment in value if circumstances indicate that the carrying amount will not be recoverable. In assessing the recoverability of our goodwill, management is required to make certain critical estimates and assumptions, particularly as to manufacturing efficiency, the achievement of reductions in operating costs, and increased sales and backlog. If any of these or other estimates and assumptions are not realized in the future, we may be required to record an impairment charge for goodwill, which charges would reduce net income and earnings per share. We are subject to a number of restrictive financial covenants required by our debt agreements. Our credit facility with Wells Fargo Business Credit, Inc., which is secured by substantially all of our assets, requires us to meet certain increases in net worth and places certain restrictions on capital expenditures, dividend payments and acquisitions of our common stock. These requirements could limit our ability to obtain future financing and may prevent us from taking advantage of attractive business opportunities in the future. Our ability to meet these restrictive financial covenants and requirements may be adversely affected by events beyond our control. A breach of one or more of these covenants or our inability to comply with our restrictions could result in an event of default under our credit facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, after the expiration of any grace period, our lender could, among other things, elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the credit facility, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against the collateral securing the debt. In either event, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full the indebtedness under our credit facility. Our compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will result in significant costs. We are required to comply with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If the value of our common stock held by non-affiliates is $75 million or more as of June 30, 2006, the deadline to comply will be accelerated to December 31, 2006. Following the completion of our offering of common stock on March 29, 2006 and the closing market value of our common stock as reported on The Nasdaq National Market on that date, the value of our common stock held by non-affiliates was $142.3 million. As a result, we anticipate that we will be required to comply with Section 404 by December 31, 2006. 16 Section 404 requires that we document and test our internal controls over financial reporting and issue management’s assessment of those controls. Section 404 also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm opine upon our internal controls and management’s assessment of those controls. We are currently evaluating our existing controls against the standards adopted by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. During the course of our on-going evaluation and integration of internal control over financial reporting, we may identify areas requiring improvement, and we may have to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through our evaluation. We currently estimate the out-of-pocket costs of complying with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to be approximately $750,000. We also believe management will need to spend a significant amount of their time focusing on these compliance efforts rather than on our day-to-day operations. If the time and costs associated with our compliance exceed our current expectations, our productivity and profitability could decrease. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully complete the procedures, certification and attestation requirements of Section 404 on a timely basis or that we or our auditors will not identify additional material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404, or if we or our auditors identify any material weaknesses, the accuracy and timeliness of the filing of our annual and quarterly reports may be negatively affected and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the share value of our common stock. In addition, a material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could result in fraud, the loss of customers, and adversely affect our ability to obtain financing. Remediating any such material weakness may require additional management attention and increased compliance costs. Risks associated with acquisitions could result in increased costs and production inefficiencies. A key element of our growth strategy has been expansion through the acquisition of complementary businesses involved in the aerospace industry and strategic acquisitions that would provide us with access to new industries. Our ability to expand by acquisition is dependent upon, and may be limited by, the availability of suitable acquisition candidates and our capital resources. Acquisition risks include: · difficulties in assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; · difficulties associated with implementing and integrating new product lines and meeting new tolerance requirements; · an inability to accurately price new products; · the failure to realize potential cost savings or other financial and strategic benefits; · the incurrence of substantial unanticipated integration costs; · the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies; · the incurrence of substantial, additional indebtedness in funding such acquisitions; · significant strain on our managerial, financial and other resources; and · potential goodwill impairment. Furthermore, although we will investigate the business operations and assets of entities that we acquire, there may be liabilities that we fail or are unable to discover and for which we, as a successor owner or operator, may be liable. Also, the necessity of integrating our internal controls over financial reporting with businesses acquired by us in order to meet the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes - Oxley Act will add additional cost and expense to acquisitions and expose us to the risk that 17 we may not be successful in integrating our internal control over financial reporting with that of the acquired business on a timely basis. Finally, while we evaluate acquisition opportunities from time to time, our current limited capital resources will significantly restrict our ability to effect strategic acquisitions We currently do not have any understandings, commitments or agreements with respect to any material acquisitions of or investments in complementary businesses, products or technologies, but we expect to evaluate potential acquisitions and investments from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Certain newer aircraft platforms include fewer metal products and could, over time, limit our ability to grow. Newer military aircraft, such as the Lockheed F-35 Series, and newer aircraft designs for large commercial aircraft, such as the Boeing 787, include more composite and other non-metal components than previous models. Additionally, redesigns of existing platforms could include greater amounts of non-metal components. Because we currently do not have the capability to produce non-metal components, the trend toward the use of non-metal components could limit our opportunities for new work, cause the loss of certain existing work and increase the competitive environment with other suppliers of metal components. Anti-takeover provision and our organizational documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit your opportunity to sell your shares at a premium. Our restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain certain provisions that reduce the probability of a change of control or acquisition of our company. These provisions include, among other things: · the ability of our board to issue preferred stock in one or more series with such rights, obligations and preferences as the board may determine, without any further vote or action by our shareholders; · advanced notice procedures for shareholders to nominate candidates for election of directors and for shareholders to submit proposal for consideration at shareholders’ meetings; · the staggered election of our directors; and · restrictions on the ability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders. In addition, we are subject to Section 459 of the General and Business Corporation Law of Missouri, which, under certain circumstances, may prohibit a business combination with any shareholder holding 20% or more of our outstanding voting power. This provision may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing certain potential acquisitions or a change of control of our company. If our directors and executive officers choose to act together, they will exercise voting control over matters requiring approval by our shareholders. After giving effect to the completion of our recent offering of common stock, our directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 31.8% of our common stock. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, will be able to control or effectively control all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of our directors and any merger, sale of assets or other change of control transaction. 18 Risks Related to Our Industry We are subject to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry, and any future downturn in the aerospace industry or general economic conditions could cause our sales and operating income to decrease. We derive approximately 90% of our sales from services and components for the aerospace industry. Consequently, our business is directly affected by certain characteristics and trends of the aerospace industry or general economic conditions that affect our customers, such as: · fluctuations in the aerospace industry’s business cycle; · varying fuel and labor costs; · intense price competition and regulatory scrutiny; · certain trends, including a possible decrease in aviation activity, a decrease in outsourcing by aircraft manufacturers or the failure of projected market growth to materialize or continue; and · changes in military budgeting and procurement for certain military aircraft. In the event that these characteristics and trends adversely affect customers in the aerospace industry, they would reduce the overall demand for our products and services, thereby decreasing our sales and operating income. Terrorist attacks could reduce demand for our large commercial, corporate and regional products and services. Acts of sabotage or terrorism or adverse results to the U.S. and its military conflicts, such as the current conflict in Iraq, would likely have an adverse impact on the large commercial, corporate and regional industries, which would lead to reduced demand for our products and services. Prior industry downturns caused by such acts or results have negatively affected our net sales, gross margin, net income and cash flow. In particular, we and the aerospace industry suffered significantly as a result of the events of September 11, 2001, the events of which caused a substantial downturn in new large commercial aircraft deliveries and order cancellations or deferrals by the major domestic and international air carriers. We may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position because of the intense competition in the markets we serve. Our competitors in the aerospace industry consist of a large fragmented group of companies, including certain business units or affiliates of our customers. We believe that competition within the aerospace industry will increase substantially as a result of industry consolidations, trends favoring greater outsourcing of components and a decrease in the number of preferred suppliers. We also believe foreign aerospace manufacturers will become an increasing source of competition, due largely to foreign manufacturers’ access to low-cost labor and the increased prevalence of industry participation commitments, pursuant to which domestic OEMs agree to award production work to manufacturers from a foreign country in order to obtain orders from that country. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, production and other resources than us. These competitors may have: · the ability to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements and industry conditions or · trends; · greater access to capital; 19 · stronger relationships with customers and suppliers; and · greater name recognition. Decreases in the availability or increases in the cost of our raw materials would increase our operating costs. Most of our components are manufactured from aluminum products. From time to time, we, and the aerospace components industry as a whole, have experienced shortages in the availability of aerospace quality aluminum. In addition, our Machining and Technology segment utilizes materials that, in some cases, may be provided by a limited number of suppliers. Raw material shortages could limit our ability to meet our production needs and adversely affect our ability to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. Also, raw material shortages and capacity constraints at our raw material producers are outside of our control and can cause the price of aluminum to increase. Any significant shortage or price escalation of raw materials such as aluminum could increase our operating costs, which would likely reduce profits. OEMs in the aerospace industry have significant pricing leverage over suppliers such as ourselves, and may be able to achieve price reductions over time, which could adversely impact our profitability. There is substantial and continuing pressure from OEMs in the aerospace industry on suppliers such as ourselves, to reduce prices for products and services. If we are unable to absorb OEM price reductions through operating cost reductions and other methods, our gross margins, profitability and cash flows could be reduced. Compliance with and changes in environmental, health and safety laws, other laws that regulate the operation of our business and industry standards could increase the cost of production and expose us to regulatory claims. Our operations are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state and local laws and substantial regulation by government agencies, including the United States Environmental Protection Agency, the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Federal Aviation Administration. Among other matters, these agencies impose requirements that: · regulate the operation, handling, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials generated or used by us during the normal course of our operations; · govern the health and safety of our employees; and · require that we meet standards and licensing requirements for aerospace components. In particular, we use and generate hazardous waste in our operations. Consequently, we monitor hazardous waste management and applicable environmental permitting and reporting for compliance with applicable laws at our locations in the ordinary course of our business. We may be subject to potential material liabilities relating to any investigation and cleanup of our locations or properties where we deliver hazardous waste for handling or disposal that may be contaminated and to claims alleging personal injury. In addition, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. The adoption of new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new cleanup requirements could require us to incur costs and become subject to new or increased liabilities that could increase our operating costs and adversely affect the manner in which we conduct our business. While we require Federal Aviation Administration certifications only to a limited extent, we typically are required to maintain third-party registration to industry specification standards, such as AS9100 and Nadcap, for our quality systems and processes. In fact, many individual OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers require certifications or approvals of our work for them based on third-party registrations in 20 order to engineer and serve the systems and components used in specific aircraft models. If material OEM certifications or approvals were revoked or suspended, OEMs may cease purchasing our products. Moreover, if in the future new or more stringent governmental regulations are adopted, or industry oversight heightened, such action could result in our incurrence of significant additional costs. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 21 ITEM 