Risk Factors Related to Our Overall Business” or any other event, including the current depressed financial markets and global economy decline, we might be unable to access the financial markets. Failure to complete the necessary repayments, refinancing or extensions of our agreements would have a material adverse effect on us. A default on our secured debt may cause our lenders to foreclose on our hotels. Three of our seven wholly-owned hotels serve as collateral for mortgage debt under single property first mortgages. In addition, all of our unencumbered properties are pledged as collateral under the Credit Facility. If we default on any of the secured mortgage loans or the Credit Facility, the lender will be able to foreclose on the property pledged to the relevant lender under that loan. Furthermore, a default on any of the secured mortgage loans would also cause a default on the Credit Facility, however, a default under the Credit Facility would not cause a default on any of the secured mortgage loans. Our leverage could have a material adverse effect on our ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness and place other limitations on the conduct of our business. As of December 31, 2008, we had total indebtedness of $244.3 million. Our level of indebtedness has important consequences. It currently requires us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments of 26 Table of Contents principal and interest on our indebtedness, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and our business strategy. Additionally, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • limit our ability in the future to refinance our debt or obtain financing for expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general business purposes on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if it is available at all; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • prevent us from raising additional capital needed; or • limit our access to additional funding or potentially make additional funding inaccessible given the current environment surrounding liquidity within the credit markets. In addition, despite our current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our leverage. Our lenders have suffered losses related to the weakening economy and may not be able to fund our borrowings. Our lenders, including the lenders participating in our Credit Facility, have suffered losses related to their lending and other financial relationships, especially because of the general weakening of the national economy and increased financial instability of many borrowers. As a result, our lenders may become insolvent, choose not to perform their obligations under our Credit Facility, or tighten their lending standards, which could make it more difficult for us to borrow under our Credit Facility or to obtain alternate financing on favorable terms or at all. Our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if we were unable to draw funds under our Credit Facility because of a lender default or to obtain other cost-effective financing. A deficit in working capital may reduce funds available to us for expansion of our business. As of December 31, 2008, we had a deficit in working capital of $165.7 million primarily as a result of the full amount outstanding under our Credit Facility being classified as a current liability as the Credit Facility could be subject to accelerated maturity at the lenders option given our potential for non-compliance of certain debt covenants in the Credit Facility. A continued deficit in working capital may require us to make additional borrowings to pay our current obligations. Such borrowings would serve to reduce amounts available to us for pursuit of our business strategy of growing through securing additional management contracts and acquiring additional hotel, resort and conference center properties. We may not be able to amend our Credit Facility, which matures in March 2010, on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. A failure to obtain satisfactory terms or to amend the Credit Facility at all could have a material, adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our Credit Facility matures in March 2010. We are currently seeking to amend the terms of the Credit Facility agreement; however, because of the current illiquidity in the credit markets we may have difficulty obtaining the necessary amendments. In addition, the current interest rate on our Credit Facility, which is based on a spread over the 30-day LIBOR, was obtained at a point in time when we were able to obtain favorable interest rates and other terms, which we are unlikely to obtain in the amendment process, given the current economic situation. As a result, if we are able to amend the terms of our Credit Facility, we currently expect to pay a greater amount of debt service, which will adversely affect our cash flow, and consequently, our cash available for operations and our net income. If we are unable to amend the terms of our Credit Facility at all, we may be forced to recapitalize, refinance our obligations, sell some or all of our assets or seek to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, potentially resulting in losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Declines in our corporate credit ratings could have an adverse effect on us. Credit rating services assign a rating to us based on their perception of our ability to service debt. In March 2009, Moody’s Investor Services downgraded us from a “B2” rating to a “Caa1” rating and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services downgraded us from a “B” rating to a “CCC+” rating. Fluctuations in our operating performance or changes in the amount of our debt may result in a change to our rating. A negative change in our ratings could increase the cost of, or prevent us from making future financings. Impairments of assets or goodwill may increase the risk of default under our debt obligations and have an adverse effect on our stock price. We are required to evaluate our assets, including goodwill, annually or upon certain trigger events in order to ascertain that the historical carrying value is not less than the fair market value of the asset. Should we determine that an asset’s fair market value is less than its carrying value, the asset would be considered impaired, and we would recognize a write-down of the asset to its current fair value. Our Credit Facility contains several financial covenants, including a minimum net worth requirement. To the extent an impairment would reduce our asset base, we could fall below the minimum net worth requirement. If we are unable to obtain a waiver or an amendment for the covenant, the resulting default could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, because the impairment of long-lived assets or goodwill would be recorded as an operating expense, such a write-down would negatively affect our net income and earnings per share, which could have a negative impact on our stock price. Anti-takeover defense provisions of our charter documents may deter potential acquirers and depress our stock price. Provisions of Delaware law and of our charter and bylaws may have the effect of discouraging a third-party from making an acquisition proposal for us. These provisions could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control of us under circumstances that could otherwise give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. These provisions include the following: • our certificate of incorporation prohibits action by written consent of our stockholders, and our stockholders are not able to call special meetings; • our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide for a classified Board of Directors; • our directors are subject to removal only for cause and upon the vote of two-thirds of the outstanding shares of our common stock; • our bylaws require advance notice for the nomination of directors and for stockholder proposals; • we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits our ability to enter into business combination transactions with interested stockholders; and • specified provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may be amended only upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the outstanding shares. Our stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may decrease the liquidity of our common stock. Prior to the market opening on March 12, 2009, the NYSE suspended our common stock from trading on the exchange as we did not meet the continued listing standard requiring maintenance of a minimum $15 million market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading-day period. Since that time, our common stock has been trading over-the-counter and is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and Pink Sheets under the symbol “IHRI”. Broker-dealers often decline to trade in over-the-counter stocks, given that the market for such securities is often limited, the stocks are more volatile, and the risk to investors is greater than with stocks listed on national securities exchanges. Consequently, selling our common stock can be difficult because smaller quantities of shares can be 28 Table of Contents bought and sold, transactions can be delayed, and securities analyst and news media coverage of our Company may be reduced. These factors could result in lower prices, increased volatility and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of our common stock as well as lower trading volume. We will appeal the delisting determination on June 1, 2009, as permitted by the NYSE, though there are only limited solutions available. Until the appeal is heard, we will remain listed, but will not trade, on the NYSE. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in these efforts. Furthermore, in the case we are not successful in the appeal process, there can be no assurance that we will be able to regain listing on the NYSE or another national securities exchange in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 