Item 1A. Risk Factors The financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Partnership are affected by various factors, many of which are beyond the Partnership’s control. These include the following: There are risks associated with our participation in a tender option bond financing program. Our principal source of debt financing is provided under a TOB Facility sponsored by Bank of America, N.A. In order to obtain this debt financing, we have securitized many of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds through the Bank of America tender option bond, or TOB, program. The TOB program replaced our previous financing facility under the Merrill Lynch “P-Float” program. Under the TOB program, we deposit tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds into various trusts which then issue senior Floater Certificates to institutional investors and a residual interest (known as an Inverse Certificate) to us. Each trust pays interest on its Floater Certificates at a variable rate from the interest payments received by it from its underlying tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds. The Company, as the holder of Inverse Certificates, is entitled to the amount of interest received by the each TOB trust after the trust has paid the full amount of interest due on the Floater Certificates and all of the expenses of the trust, including various fees to the trustee, remarketing agents and liquidity providers. Specific risks associated with this program include the following: Changes in short-term interest rates can adversely affect the cost of our tender option bond financing program and could result in a loss of assets pledged as collateral for this financing. Payments on Inverse Certificates are subordinate to payments on the Floater Certificates and payment of trust expenses and no party guarantees the payment of any amounts under the Inverse Certificates. The rate on the Floater Certificates will reset periodically, usually weekly. As a result, increases in short-term interest rates could reduce or even eliminate the Company's return on the Inverse Certificates. A decrease in the value of the bonds held by a TOB trust may make it necessary to increase the interest rate paid on the Floater Certificates in order to successfully remarket Floater Certificates which may be tendered back to the trust by the holders of Floater Certificates. Any such increase in interest rates on the Floater Certificates will result in a lower return on the Inverse Certificates. In addition, increases in interest rates generally may reduce the value of the bonds held by the TOB trusts and the other collateral we have pledged to Bank of America. As a result, rising interest rates could require us to pledge additional collateral to the TOB trust’s liquidity providers. If the Company is not able to provide sufficient additional collateral, it may have to liquidate one or more TOB trusts and sell the underlying bonds at unfavorable prices. Termination of our tender option bond financing can occur for a number of reasons which could cause the Company to lose both the mortgage bonds and the other collateral. A TOB trust can terminate for a number of different reasons relating to problems with the bonds or problems with the TOB trust itself. Problems with the bonds that could cause the trust to collapse include payment or other defaults or a determination that the interest on the bonds is taxable. Problems with a TOB trust include a downgrade in the investment rating of the Floater Certificates, a ratings downgrade of the liquidity provider for the TOB trusts, increases in short term interest rates in excess of the interest paid on the underlying bonds, declines in the value of the bonds and other collateral pledged to the TOB trust, an inability to remarket the Floater Certificates or an inability to obtain liquidity for the trust. In order to obtain the TOB Facility, the Company is required to pledge additional collateral to Bank of America as liquidity provider for the TOB trusts. A decline in either (i) the value of the bonds held in a TOB trust or (ii) the other collateral previously pledged by us to a trust’s liquidity provider may require us to pledge additional collateral to the liquidity provider. If we fail to do so, the TOB trust may be terminated. In addition, because the Floater Certificates can be tendered back to the trust by the holders on a weekly basis, the trusts may need to remarket the Floater Certificates from time to time. If a trust is not able to remarket its Floater Certificates, its liquidity provider will be required to buy the Floater Certificates and may collapse the TOB trust and sell the bonds and other collateral in the TOB Trust to reimburse itself for the price it paid for the Floater Certificates. In each of these cases, the TOB trusts will be collapsed and the bonds held by the trusts will be sold within days of the event causing the collapse. If the proceeds from the sale of the bonds is not sufficient to pay the principal amount of the Floater Certificates with accrued interest and the other expenses of the TOB trusts, then the collateral pledged to the liquidity provider will also be sold. As a result, the Company may not only lose its investment in the Inverse Certificates, but could also lose all or part of the collateral pledged in connection with one or more TOB trusts. 8 If we are unable to extend or renew our tender option bond financing beyond its current term, the Company could lose both the mortgage bonds and the other collateral. Our TOB Facility with Bank of America has a one year term and may be renewed for an additional year at the option of Bank of America. The initial one-year term expires on July 3, 2009. We are currently negotiating with Bank of America to renew the TOB Facility, but there can be no assurance that Bank of America will renew our TOB Facility. In addition, we are currently negotiating with other potential lenders to provide a facility similar to the current TOB Facility, except with a longer term, or another alternative form of financing, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance or replace our TOB Facility with another lender on satisfactory terms or at all, particularly in light of the current illiquidity in the financial markets. If we are able to refinance with another lender, we may incur additional financing costs and higher interest expense in the future. If we are unable to renew or replace our TOB Facility with another lender prior to July 3, 2009, we would be forced to terminate all of the TOB trusts and liquidate the trust assets under potentially adverse market conditions. As a result, we could incur a loss of our entire investment in the Inverse Certificates and the other collateral pledged to Bank of America. If we refinance with another lender, we may incur additional financing costs and higher interest expense in the future. . An insolvency or receivership of Bank of America would cause the TOB trusts to collapse and could impair our ability to recover our collateral. In the event Bank of America is determined to be insolvent, it could be placed in receivership by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. In that case, the FDIC will assume control over Bank of America and its operations. In that situation, it is possible that the Company would not be able to obtain the mortgage bonds and other collateral pledged to the TOB trusts under our TOB Facility with Bank of America or receive the payments due from the TOB trusts in a timely fashion. There can be no assurance that following any such insolvency or receivership the Company would ultimately receive the collateral pledged to the TOB trusts on demand, as required by the documents or at all. The recent downturn in the credit markets has increased the cost of borrowing and has made financing difficult to obtain, each of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business. Recent economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging, with significantly tighter credit conditions and slower growth expected in 2009. Throughout 2008, continued concerns about the systemic impact of inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S., European and other international mortgage markets and declining residential and commercial real estate markets contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for the U.S., European and other economies. In the third quarter, added concerns fueled by the federal government conservatorship of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Federal National Mortgage Association, the declared bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the U.S. government’s loan to American International Group Inc., as well as other federal government interventions in the U.S. credit markets and similar events in Europe and other regions led to increased uncertainty and instability in global capital and credit markets. These conditions, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment have contributed to global volatility of unprecedented levels. As a result of these conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected in all markets in which we operate. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease, to provide funding to borrowers. Continued turbulence in the U.S., European and other international markets and economies may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. If these market and economic conditions continue, they may limit our ability to replace or renew maturing liabilities on a timely basis, access the capital markets to meet liquidity requirements and result in adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. There are risks associated with the acquisition of ownership interests in multifamily housing projects in anticipation of future tax-exempt bond financings of these projects. To facilitate our investment strategy of acquiring additional tax-exempt mortgage bonds secured by multifamily apartment properties, we may acquire ownership positions in apartment properties that we expect to ultimately sell in a syndication of LIHTCs. Our plan is to provide tax-exempt mortgage financing to the new property owners at the time of the LIHTC syndication after the expiration of the compliance period relating to LIHTCs previously issued with respect to the property. During the time we own an interest, directly or indirectly, in such apartment properties, any net income earned by us from these properties will not be exempt from federal or state income taxation. Current credit market and general economic conditions have had a significant negative effect on the market for LIHTC syndications. At this time very few LIHTC syndications are being completed. For this and other reasons, there is no assurance that we will be able to sell our interests in these properties at the end of the LIHTC compliance period or that we will not incur a loss upon the sale of these property interests. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be able to acquire tax-exempt bonds on these properties even if we are able to sell our interests in the properties in connection with the syndication of new LHITCs. 9 The receipt of interest and principal payments on our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds will be affected by the economic results of the underlying multifamily properties. Although our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds are issued by state or local housing authorities, they are not obligations of these governmental entities and are not backed by any taxing authority. Instead, each of these revenue bonds is backed by a non-recourse loan made to the owner of the underlying apartment complex and is secured by a first mortgage lien on the property. Because of the non-recourse nature of the underlying mortgage loans, the sole source of cash to pay base and contingent interest on the revenue bond, and to ultimately pay the principal amount of the bond, is the net cash flow generated by the operation of the financed property and the net proceeds from the ultimate sale or refinancing of the property. This makes our investments in these mortgage revenue bonds subject to the kinds of risks usually associated with direct investments in multifamily real estate. If a property is unable to sustain net cash flow at a level necessary to pay its debt service obligations on our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond on the property, a default may occur. Net cash flow and net sale proceeds from a particular property are applied only to debt service payments of the particular mortgage revenue bond secured by that property and are not available to satisfy debt service obligations on other mortgage revenue bonds that we hold. In addition, the value of a property at the time of its sale or refinancing will be a direct function of its perceived future profitability. Therefore, the amount of base and contingent interest that we earn on our mortgage revenue bonds, and whether or not we will receive the entire principal balance of the bonds as and when due, will depend to a large degree on the economic results of the underlying apartment complexes. The net cash flow from the operation of a property may be affected by many things, such as the number of tenants, the rental rates, operating expenses, the cost of repairs and maintenance, taxes, government regulation, competition from other apartment complexes, mortgage rates for single-family housing and general and local economic conditions. In most of the markets in which the properties financed by our bonds are located, there is significant competition from other apartment complexes and from single-family housing that is either owned or leased by potential tenants. Low mortgage interest rates make single-family housing more accessible to persons who may otherwise rent apartments. In the event of a default on a mortgage revenue bond (or a taxable loan on the same property), we will have the right to foreclose on the mortgage or deed of trust securing the property. If we take ownership of the property securing a defaulted revenue bond or taxable loan, we will be entitled to all net cash flow generated by the property. However, such amounts will no longer represent tax-exempt interest to us. The value of the properties is the only source of repayment of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds. The principal of most of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds does not fully amortize over their terms. This means that all or some of the balance of the mortgage loans underlying these bonds will be repaid as a lump-sum “balloon” payment at the end of the term. The ability of the property owners to repay the mortgage loans with balloon payments is dependent upon their ability to sell the properties securing our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds or obtain adequate refinancing. The mortgage revenue bonds are not personal obligations of the property owners, and we rely solely on the value of the properties securing these bonds for security. Similarly, if a tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond goes into default, our only recourse is to foreclose on the underlying multifamily property. If the value of the underlying property securing the bond is less than the outstanding principal balance and accrued interest on the bond, we will suffer a loss. In the event a property securing a tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond is not sold prior to the maturity or remarketing of the bond, any contingent interest payable from the net sale or refinancing proceeds of the underlying property will be determined on the basis of the appraised value of the underlying property. Real estate appraisals represent only an estimate of the value of the property being appraised and are based on subjective determinations, such as the extent to which the properties used for comparison purposes are comparable to the property being evaluated and the rate at which a prospective purchaser would capitalize the cash flow of the property to determine a purchase price. Accordingly, such appraisals may result in us realizing less contingent interest from a tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond than we would have realized had the underlying property been sold. There are a number of risks related to the construction of multifamily apartment properties that may affect the tax-exempt bonds issued to finance these properties. Three of the tax-exempt revenue bonds the Partnership currently holds are secured by multifamily apartment properties which are still under construction. The Partnership may acquire additional tax-exempt revenue bonds issued to finance apartment properties in various stages of construction. Construction of such properties generally takes approximately 12 to 18 months. The principal risk associated with construction lending is the risk that construction of the property will be substantially delayed or never completed. This may occur for a number of reasons including (i) insufficient financing to complete the project due to underestimated construction costs or cost overruns; (ii) failure of contractors or subcontractors to perform under their agreements, (iii) inability to obtain governmental approvals; (iv) labor disputes, and (v) adverse weather and other unpredictable contingencies beyond the control of the developer. While the Partnership may be able to protect itself from some of these risks by obtaining construction completion guarantees from developers, agreements of construction lenders to purchase its bonds if construction is not completed on time, and/or payment and performance bonds from contractors, the Partnership may not be able to do so in all cases or such guarantees or bonds may not fully protect it in the event a property is not completed. In other cases, the Partnership may decide to forego certain types of available security if it determines that the security is not necessary or is too expensive to obtain in relation to the risks covered. If a property is not completed, or costs more to complete than anticipated, it may cause the Partnership to receive less than the full amount of interest owed to it on the tax-exempt bond financing such property or otherwise result in a default under the mortgage loan that secures its tax-exempt bond on the property. In such case, the Partnership may be forced to foreclose on the incomplete property and sell it in order to recover the principal and accrued interest on its tax-exempt bond and it may suffer a loss of capital as a result. Alternatively, the Partnership may decide to finance the remaining construction of the property, in which event it will need to invest additional funds into the property, either as equity or as a taxable loan. Any return on this additional investment would not be tax-exempt. Also, if the Partnership forecloses on a property, it will no longer receive tax-exempt interest on the bond issued to finance the property. In addition, the overall return to the Partnership from its investment in such property is likely to be less than if the construction had been completed on time or within budget. 10 There are a number of risks related to the lease-up of newly constructed or renovated properties that may affect the tax-exempt bonds issued to finance these properties. Three of the tax-exempt revenue bonds the Partnership currently invests in are secured by affordable multifamily apartment properties which are still under construction. The Partnership may acquire additional tax-exempt revenue bonds issued to finance properties in various stages of construction or renovation. As construction or renovation is completed, these properties will move into the lease-up phase. The lease-up of these properties may not be completed on schedule or at anticipated rent levels, resulting in a greater risk that these investments may go into default than investments secured by mortgages on properties that are stabilized or fully leased-up. The underlying property may not achieve expected occupancy or debt service coverage levels. While the Partnership may require property developers to provide it with a guarantee covering operating deficits of the property during the lease-up phase, it may not be able to do so in all cases or such guarantees may not fully protect the Partnership in the event a property is not leased up to an adequate level of economic occupancy as anticipated. There is additional credit risk when we make a taxable loan on a property. Taxable mortgage loans which we make to owners of the properties which secure mortgage revenue bonds held by us are non-recourse obligations of the property owner. As a result, the sole source of principal and interest payments on these taxable loans is the net cash flow generated by these properties or the net proceeds from the sale of these properties. The net cash flow from the operation of a property may be affected by many things as discussed above. If a property is unable to sustain net cash flow at a level necessary to pay current debt service obligations on our taxable loan on such property, a default may occur. In addition, any payment of principal and interest on a taxable loan on a particular property will be subordinate to payment of all principal and interest (including contingent interest) on the mortgage revenue bond secured by the same property. As a result, there may be a higher risk of default on the taxable loans than on the mortgage revenue bonds. The properties financed by our tax-exempt bonds are not completely insured against damages from hurricanes and other major storms. Three of the multifamily housing properties financed by tax-exempt bonds held by the Partnership are located in Florida in areas that are prone to damage from hurricanes and other major storms. Due to the significant losses incurred by insurance companies on policies written on properties in Florida damaged by hurricanes, property and casualty insurers in Florida have modified their approach to underwriting policies. As a result, the owners of these Florida properties now assume the risk of first loss on a larger percentage of their property’s value. If any of these properties were damaged in a hurricane or other major storm, the losses incurred could be significant and would reduce the cash flow available to pay base or contingent interest on the Partnership’s tax-exempt bonds collateralized by these properties. In general, the current insurance policies on these properties carry a 5% deductible for wind claims on the insurable value of the properties. The current insurable value of the Florida properties is approximately $52.4 million. The Company may be adversely impacted by economic factors beyond its control and may incur impairment charges to its investment portfolio. The credit and capital markets have continued to deteriorate. If uncertainties in these markets continue, the markets deteriorate further or the Company experiences deterioration in the values of its investment portfolio, the Company may incur impairments to its investment portfolio which could negatively impact the Company’s financial condition, cash flows, and reported earnings. We may suffer adverse consequences from changing interest rates. We have financed the acquisition of some of our assets using variable-rate debt financing. The interest that we pay on this financing fluctuates with a specific interest rate index. If the interest rate index increases, our interest expense will increase. This will reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution and may affect the market value of our BUCs. An increase in interest rates could also decrease the value of our tax-exempt mortgage bonds. A decrease in the value of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds could cause the debt financing counterparty to demand additional collateral. If additional collateral is not available, the debt financing could be terminated and some or all of the bonds collateralizing such financing may be sold to repay the debt. In that case, we would lose the net interest income from these bonds. A decrease in the value of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds could also decrease the amount we could realize on the sale of our investments and would decrease the amount of funds available for distribution to our BUC holders. Our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds are illiquid assets and their value may decrease. The majority of our assets consist of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds. These mortgage revenue bonds are relatively illiquid, and there is no existing trading market for these mortgage revenue bonds. As a result, there are no market makers, price quotations or other indications of a developed trading market for these mortgage revenue bonds. In addition, no rating has been issued on any of the existing mortgage revenue bonds and we do not expect to obtain ratings on mortgage revenue bonds we may acquire in the future. Accordingly, any buyer of these mortgage revenue bonds would need to perform its own due diligence prior to a purchase. As a result, our ability to sell our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds, and the price we may receive upon their sale, will be affected by the number of potential buyers, the number of similar securities on the market at the time and a number of other market conditions. As a result, such a sale could result in a loss to us. 11 Direct ownership of apartment properties will subject the Company to all of the risks normally associated with the ownership of commercial real estate. We may acquire ownership of apartment complexes financed by our tax-exempt bonds in the event of a default on such bonds. Additionally, we have acquired indirect interests in several apartment properties in order to facilitate the eventual acquisition of tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds on the properties. In either case, during the time we own an apartment complex, it will generate taxable income or losses from the operations of such property rather than tax exempt interest. In addition, we will be subject to all of the risks normally associated with the operation of commercial real estate including declines in property value, occupancy and rental rates and increases in operating expenses. We may also be subject to government regulations, natural disasters and environmental issues, any of which could have an adverse affect on our financial results and ability to make distributions to BUC holders. We have assumed certain potential liability relating to recapture of tax credits on apartment properties. Subsidiaries of the Company have acquired limited partner interests in several limited partnerships that own apartment properties that generated LIHTCs for the previous partners in these partnerships. In connection with the acquisition by our subsidiaries of partnership interests in these partnerships, we have agreed to reimburse the prior partners for any liabilities they incur due to recapture of these tax credits to the extent the recapture liability is due to the operation of the properties after our subsidiaries acquired an interest therein in a manner inconsistent with the laws and regulations relating to such tax credits. The rent restrictions and occupant income limitations imposed on properties financed by tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds or which generate LIHTCs may limit the revenues of such properties. All of the properties securing our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds or in which our subsidiaries hold indirect interests are subject to certain federal, state and/or local requirements with respect to the permissible income of their tenants. Since federal subsidies are not generally available on these properties, rents must be charged on a designated portion of the units at a level to permit these units to be continuously occupied by low or moderate income persons or families. As a result, these rents may not be sufficient to cover all operating costs with respect to these units and debt service on the applicable tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond. This may force the property owner to charge rents on the remaining units that are higher than they would be otherwise and may, therefore, exceed competitive rents which may adversely affect the occupancy rate of a property securing an investment and the property owner’s ability to service its debt. The properties securing our revenue bonds or in which our subsidiaries hold indirect interests may be subject to liability for environmental contamination and thereby increase the risk of default on such bonds. The owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous substances released on its property. Various federal, state and local laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. We cannot assure you that the properties that secure our revenue bonds, or in which our subsidiaries hold indirect interests, will not be contaminated. The costs associated with the remediation of any such contamination may be significant and may exceed the value of a property or result in the property owner defaulting on the revenue bond secured by the property. We could be adversely affected if counterparties are unable to fulfill their obligations under our derivative agreements. We have used interest rate swaps and caps to help us mitigate our interest rate risks. However, these derivative transactions do not fully insulate us from the interest rate risks to which we are exposed. We cannot assure you that a liquid secondary market will exist for any instruments purchased or sold in those transactions, thus, we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. Moreover, the derivative instruments are required to be marked to market with the difference recognized in earnings as interest expense which can result in significant volatility to reported net income over the term of these instruments. The counterparty to certain of these agreements has the right to convert them to fixed-rate agreements, and it is possible that such a conversion could result in our paying more interest than we would under our variable-rate financing. There is also a risk that a counterparty to such agreements will be unable to perform its obligations under the agreement. Any future issuances of additional BUCs could cause their market value to decline. We have the authority to issue additional BUCs representing assigned limited partner interests in the Company, and we plan to issue such BUCs from time to time. The issuance of additional BUCs could cause dilution of the existing BUCs and a decrease in the market price of the BUCs. If additional BUCs are issued but the Company is unable to invest the additional equity capital in assets that generate tax-exempt income at levels at least equivalent to our existing assets, the amount of cash available for distribution to BUC holders may decline. 12 The Company is not registered under the Investment Company Act. The Company is not required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”), because it operates under an exemption therefrom. As a result, none of the protections of the Investment Company Act (disinterested directors, custody requirements for securities, and regulation of the relationship between a fund and its advisor) will be applicable to the Company. The Company engages in transactions with related parties. Each of the executive officers of Burlington and four of the managers of Burlington hold equity positions in Burlington. A subsidiary of Burlington acts as our general partner, manages our investments, performs administrative services for us and earns certain fees that are either paid by the properties financed by our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds or by us. Another subsidiary of Burlington provides on-site management for many of the multifamily apartment properties that underlie our tax-exempt bonds or in which our subsidiaries hold ownership interests and earns fees from the property owners based on the gross revenues of these properties. The BUC holders of the limited-purpose corporations which own five of the apartment properties financed with tax-exempt bonds and taxable loans held by the Company are employees of Burlington who are not involved in the operation or management of the Company and who are not executive officers or managers of Burlington. Because of these relationships, our agreements with Burlington and its subsidiaries are related-party transactions. By their nature, related-party transactions may not be considered to have been negotiated at arm’s-length. These relationships may also cause a conflict of interest in other situations where we are negotiating with Burlington. Tax Risks BUC holders may incur tax liability if any of the interest on our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds is determined to be taxable. Certain of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds bear interest at rates which include contingent interest. Payment of the contingent interest depends on the amount of net cash flow generated by, and net proceeds realized from a sale of, the property securing the bond. Due to this contingent interest feature, an issue may arise as to whether the relationship between the property owner and us is that of debtor and creditor or whether we are engaged in a partnership or joint venture with the property owner. If the IRS were to determine that tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds represented an equity investment in the underlying property, the interest paid to us could be viewed as a taxable return on such investment and would not qualify as tax-exempt interest for federal income tax purposes. We have obtained unqualified legal opinions to the effect that interest on our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds is excludable from gross income for federal income tax purposes which opinions provide that interest paid to a “substantial user” or “related person” (each as defined in the Internal Revenue Code) is not exempt from federal income taxation. However, these legal opinions have no binding effect on the IRS or the courts, and no assurances can be given that the conclusions reached will not be contested by the IRS or, if contested, will be sustained by a court. In addition, the tax-exempt status of the interest paid on our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds is subject to compliance by the underlying properties, and the owners thereof, with the bond documents and covenants required by the bond-issuing authority and the Internal Revenue Code. Among these requirements are tenant income restrictions, regulatory agreement compliance, reporting requirements, use of proceeds restrictions and compliance with rules pertaining to arbitrage. Each issuer of the revenue bonds, as well as each of the underlying property owners/borrowers, has covenanted to comply with procedures and guidelines designed to ensure satisfaction with the continuing requirements of the Internal Revenue Code. Failure to comply with these continuing requirements of the Internal Revenue Code may cause the interest on our bonds to be includable in gross income for federal income tax purposes retroactively to the date of issuance, regardless of when such noncompliance occurs. In addition, we hold residual interests issued under our TOB financing facility with Bank of America which entitle us to a share of the tax-exempt interest of the mortgage revenue bonds held by the underlying TOB trusts. It is possible that the characterization of the residual interest in these TOB trusts could be challenged and the income that we receive through these instruments could be treated as ordinary taxable income includable in our gross income for federal tax purposes. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department. Changes to the tax law, which may have retroactive application, could adversely affect us and our BUC holders. It cannot be predicted whether, when, in what forms or with what effective dates the tax law applicable to us will be changed. Not all of the interest income of the Company is exempt from taxation. We have made, and may make in the future, taxable mortgage loans to the owners of properties which are secured by tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds that we hold. BUC holders will be taxed on their allocable share of this taxable interest income. In any case that interest earned by the Company is taxable, a BUC holder’s allocable share of this taxable interest income will be taxable to the BUC holder regardless of whether an amount of cash equal to such allocable BUC is actually distributed to the BUC holder. 13 If the Company was determined not to be a partnership for tax purposes, it will have adverse economic consequences for the Company and its BUC holders. We are a Delaware limited partnership and have chosen to operate as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, to the extent we generate taxable income, BUC holders will be individually liable for income tax on their proportionate share of this taxable income, whether or not we make cash distributions. The ability of BUC holders to deduct their proportionate share of the losses and expenses we generate will be limited in certain cases, and certain transactions may result in the triggering of the Alternative Minimum Tax for BUC holders who are individuals. If the Company is classified as an association taxable as a corporation rather than as a partnership, we will be taxed on our taxable income, if any, and all distributions made by us to our BUC holders would constitute ordinary dividend income taxable to such BUC holders to the extent of our earnings and profits, which would include tax-exempt income, as well as any taxable income we might have, and the payment of these dividends would not be deductible by us. The listing of the Company’s BUCs on the NASDAQ Global Market causes the Company to be treated as a “publicly traded partnership” under Section 7704 of the Code. A publicly traded partnership is generally taxable as a corporation unless 90% or more of its gross income is “qualifying” income. Qualifying income includes interest, dividends, real property rents, gain from the sale or other disposition of real property, gain from the sale or other disposition of capital assets held for the production of interest or dividends and certain other items. Substantially all of the Company’s gross income will continue to be tax-exempt interest income on mortgage bonds. While we believe that all of this interest income is qualifying income, it is possible that some or all of our income could be determined not to be qualifying income. In such a case, if more than 10% of our annual gross income in any year is not qualifying income, the Company will be taxable as a corporation rather than a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not received, and do not intend to seek, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service regarding our status as a partnership for tax purposes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 