Item 1A. Risk Factors Our success is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below. These factors could hinder our growth, cause us to sustain losses or have other adverse effects on us, all of which could cause our stock price to decline. Following the end of fiscal 2007 we completed the acquisition of Chipidea, and there are numerous risks associated with this acquisition. In August 2007, we completed the acquisition of Chipidea, a Portuguese company that supplies analog and mixed signal intellectual property for the wireless, digital consumer and connectivity markets. The purchase price for this acquisition was $147 million in cash paid at closing, with contingent obligations to issue up to 610,687 shares of common stock (or to pay the cash value of such shares) based on the performance of the Chipidea business and to pay an additional €1.2 million in cash if Chipidea receives a certain grant from the Portuguese government. This is a substantially larger acquisition than any that we have previously completed and involves technology and products that are largely new to us. Many of the risks discussed below under “We may encounter difficulties with future acquisitions, which could harm our business” may be exaggerated with respect to the Chipidea acquisition. Among the many risks associated with the acquisition are the following: • the challenges associated with integrating and managing the acquisition of a large business, which challenge will be enhanced by the geographical distance between our headquarters in California and the Chipidea headquarters in Portugal; 11 • our dependence on the management of Chipidea to manage the Chipidea business, and integrate it with our existing business; • the likely adverse impact to us if we were to lose key Chipidea personnel, such as Jose Franca, founder and CEO, whose ongoing employment with us will be critical to our ability to continue to advance the Chipidea technology and to effectively market and sell its products; • diversion of our management team’s attention as we seek to capitalize on the opportunities presented by this acquisition may adversely affect our ability to operate our existing business. We may not achieve the advantages that we envisioned when we decided to complete this acquisition. For example, the development of analog and mixed signal IP is relatively more labor intensive than that of our microprocessor IP business, and we cannot be assured of our ability to achieve operating results from this business that correspond to those that we can achieve in our existing business. If we are not as successful as we anticipated with the Chipidea business, our future operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We used substantially all of our cash to complete the Chipidea acquisition and in connection with the transaction entered into a short-term credit facility under which we have current borrowings outstanding. In order to complete the Chipidea acquisition, we used all of our existing cash resources and entered into a one-year credit facility under which we have borrowed to support our working capital needs. This use of cash dramatically reduces our liquidity, and if we encounter difficulty in generating cash from the operation of our business we may be required to curtail our operations or take other acts that could adversely affect our ability to be successful over the longer term. In addition, we have not previously incurred debt for borrowed money. Loans under this facility are secured by virtually all of our assets, and the facility contains affirmative and negative covenants that impose restrictions on the operation of our business. We will be required to make substantial interest payments for so long as this debt is outstanding, and we cannot be assured that we will be able to repay this debt on or before its due date. We may be required to take on longer term financing to replace this facility, or sell equity securities in order to have cash to repay it. Our incurrence of long term debt could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition and the sale of equity securities could be on terms that are dilutive to our existing stockholders. Further, the covenants contained in the credit facility, or in any future debt we incur to replace this facility, may prevent us from taking advantage of opportunities that are otherwise available to us. Our quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations that could adversely affect our stock price. Our quarterly financial results may vary significantly due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. In addition, our revenue components are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Because our expenses are largely independent of our revenue in any particular period, it is difficult to accurately forecast our operating results. Our operating expenses are based, in part, on anticipated future revenue and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short term. As a result, if our revenue is below expectations in any quarter, the adverse effect may be magnified by our inability to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for the revenue shortfall. Therefore, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. Our recent acquisition of Chipidea will increase the challenge that we face in planning and predicting our future operating results. It is possible that in some future periods our results of operations may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our common stock may fall. Factors that could cause our revenue and operating results to vary from quarter to quarter include: • our ability to identify attractive licensing opportunities and then enter into new licensing agreements on terms that are acceptable to us; • our ability to successfully conclude licensing agreements of any significant value in a given quarter; • the financial terms and delivery schedules of our contractual arrangements with our licensees, which may provide for significant up-front payments, payments based on the achievement of certain milestones or extended payment terms; 12 • the demand for products that incorporate our technology; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new processor intellectual property; • the establishment or loss of licensing relationships with semiconductor companies or digital consumer and business product manufacturers; • the timing of new products and product enhancements by us and our competitors; • changes in development schedules, research and development expenditure levels and product support by us and semiconductor companies and digital consumer and business product manufacturers; and • uncertain economic and market conditions. The success of our business depends on maintaining and growing our contract revenue. Contract revenue consists of technology license fees paid for access to our developed technology and engineering service fees related to technology under development. Our ability to secure the licenses from which our contract revenues are derived depends on our customers, including semiconductor companies, digital consumer and business product manufacturers, adopting our technology and using it in the products they sell. Our contract revenue increased 28% in fiscal 2005, but declined 12% in fiscal 2006, and then increased by 42% in fiscal 2007. While we expect that we will continue to grant additional licenses to new licensees and develop new products to license to both new and existing licensees, we cannot predict whether we can maintain our current contract revenue levels or if contract revenue will grow. Our licensees are not obligated to license new or future generations of our products, so past contract revenue may not be indicative of the amount of such revenue in any future period. If we cannot maintain or grow our contract revenue or if our customers do not adopt our technology and obtain corresponding licenses, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Our ability to achieve design wins may be limited unless we are able to develop enhancements and new generations of our intellectual property. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop enhancements and new generations of our processors, cores and other intellectual property that satisfy the requirements of specific product applications and introduce these new technologies to the marketplace in a timely manner. If our development efforts are not successful or are significantly delayed, or if the characteristics of our processor, core and related designs are not compatible with the requirements of specific product applications, our ability to achieve design wins may be limited. Our failure to achieve a significant number of design wins would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Technical innovations of the type critical to our success are inherently complex and involve several risks, including: • our ability to anticipate and timely respond to changes in the requirements of semiconductor companies, and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, of digital consumer and business products; • our ability to anticipate and timely respond to changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes; • changing customer preferences in the digital consumer and business products markets; • the emergence of new standards in the semiconductor industry and for digital consumer and business products; • the significant investment in a potential product that is often required before commercial viability is determined; and • the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. Our failure to adequately address these risks could render our existing processor, core and related designs obsolete and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will have the financial and other resources necessary to develop processor, core and related designs in the future, or that any enhancements or new generations of the technology that we develop will generate revenue sufficient to cover or in excess of the costs of development. We depend on royalties from the sale of products incorporating our technology, and we have limited visibility as to the timing and amount of such sales. Our receipt of royalties from our licenses depends on our customers incorporating our technology into their products, their bringing these products to market, and the success of these products. In the case of our semiconductor customers, the amount of such sales is further 13 dependent upon the sale of the products by their customers into which our customers’ products are incorporated. Thus, our ability to achieve design wins and enter into licensing agreements does not assure us of future revenue. Any royalties that we are eligible to receive are based on the sales of products incorporating the semiconductors or other products of our licensees, and as a result we do not have direct access to information that will help us anticipate the timing and amount of future royalties. Factors that negatively affect our licensees and their customers could adversely affect our business. The success of our direct and indirect customers is subject to a number of factors, including: • the competition these companies face and the market acceptance of their products; • the engineering, marketing and management capabilities of these companies and technical challenges unrelated to our technology that they face in developing their products; and • their financial and other resources. Because we do not control the business practices of our licensees and their customers, we have little influence on the degree to which our licensees promote our technology and do not set the prices at which products incorporating our technology are sold. We rely on our customers to correctly report to us the number or dollar value of products incorporating our technology that they have sold, as these sales are the basis for the royalty payments that they make to us. We have the right under our licensing agreements to perform a royalty audit of the customer’s sales so that we can verify the accuracy of their reporting, and if we determine that there has been an over-reported or under-reported amount of royalty, we account for the results when they are identified. By way of an example, we determined in the second quarter of fiscal 2005, as a result of an audit, that one of our customers had inadvertently reported a higher level of royalty than had actually occurred, and we accrued for this event as an offset against revenue in the quarter. If we do not compete effectively in the market for embedded processors, our business will be adversely affected. Competition in the market for embedded processors is intense. Our products compete with those of other designers and developers of processors and cores, as well as those of semiconductor manufacturers whose product lines include processors for embedded and non-embedded applications. In addition, we may face competition from the producers of unauthorized MIPS-Based clones and other technology designs. The market for embedded processors has recently faced downward pricing pressures on products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully or that competitive pressure will not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In order to be successful in marketing our products to semiconductor companies, we must differentiate our processors, cores and related designs from those available or under development by the internal design groups of these companies, including some of our current and prospective licensees. Many of these internal design groups have substantial engineering and design resources and are part of larger organizations with substantial financial and marketing resources. These internal design groups may develop products that compete with ours. Some of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, larger customer bases as well as greater financial and marketing resources than we do. This may allow them to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. It may also allow them to devote greater resources than we can to the development and promotion of their technologies and products. We may encounter difficulties with future acquisitions, which could harm our business. As part of our business strategy, in the future we may seek to acquire or invest in businesses or technologies that we believe can complement or expand our business, enhance our technical capabilities or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities. Any future acquisitions may require debt or equity financing, or the issuance of shares in the transaction, any of which could increase our leverage or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. We may not be able to complete acquisitions or strategic customer transactions on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. We may incur charges related to acquisitions or investments that are completed. For instance, we recorded an 14 in-process research and development charge in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 as a result of our acquisition of First Silicon Solutions, Inc. We will also face challenges integrating acquired businesses and operations and assimilating and managing the personnel of the acquired operations. Geographic distances may further complicate the difficulties of this integration. The integration of acquired businesses, an area in which we have limited experience, may not be successful and could result in disruption to other parts of our business. Acquisitions involve a number of other risks and challenges, including: • diversion of management’s attention; • potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies; • exposure to unanticipated contingent liabilities of acquired companies; and • use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisition and/or operate the acquired business. Any of these and other factors could harm our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition. We depend on our key personnel to succeed. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued contributions of our key management, technical, sales and marketing personnel, many of whom are highly skilled and difficult to replace. This dependence is enhanced with our acquisition of Chipidea, as our ability to successfully operate this business in the future will depend significantly on our ability to retain key Chipidea management and employees. We cannot assure that we will retain our key officers and employees. Competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with significant experience in the semiconductor and processor design industries, remains intense. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future could make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective project milestones and product introductions which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries with low statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws. We operate in countries other than the United States and occasionally face inquiries and examinations regarding tax matters in these countries. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from our current examination or any other examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may be subject to litigation and other legal claims that could adversely affect our financial results. From time to time, we are subject to litigation and other legal claims incidental to our business. In addition, it is standard practice for us to include some form of indemnification of our licensees in our core and architecture license agreements, and from time to time we are engaged in claims by our licensees with respect to these obligations. It is possible that we could suffer unfavorable outcomes from litigation or other legal claims, including those made with respect to indemnification obligations, that are currently pending or that may arise in the future. Any such unfavorable outcome could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We may be subject to claims of infringement. We cannot assure you that any of the patents or other intellectual property rights that we own or use will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others or be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industry. As we grow our business and expand into new markets that other companies are developing in, the risk that our technology may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others increases. We cannot be certain that third parties will not make a claim of infringement against us, our licensees, or our licensees’ customers in connection with use of our technology. For example, Technology Properties Limited, Inc. filed a lawsuit in November 2005 against some of our licensees based upon the alleged infringement of certain microprocessor-related patents. Any claims, even those without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation and/or require us to enter into royalty or 15 licensing agreements. These royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms to us or at all. A successful claim of infringement against us or one of our licensees in connection with its use of our technology could adversely affect our business. Our intellectual property may be misappropriated or expire, and we may be unable to obtain or enforce intellectual property rights. Policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. As part of our business strategy, we license our technology in multiple geographies including in countries whose laws do not provide as much protection for our intellectual property as the laws of the United States and where we may not be able to enforce our rights. In addition, intellectual property rights which we have obtained in particular geographies may expire from time to time. As a result, we cannot be certain that we will be able to prevent other parties from designing and marketing unauthorized MIPS compatible products, that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire the same or substantially equivalent technologies as ours, or that others will not use information contained in our expired patents to successfully compete against us. Moreover, cross licensing arrangements, in which we license certain of our patents but do not generally transfer know-how or other proprietary information, may facilitate the ability of cross-licensees, either alone or in conjunction with others, to develop competitive products and designs. We also cannot assure you that any of our patent applications to protect our intellectual property will be approved, and patents that have issued do expire over time. Recent judicial decisions and proposed legislation in the U.S. may increase the cost of obtaining patents, limit the ability to adequately protect our proprietary technology, and have a negative impact on the enforceability of our patents. In addition, effective trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. If we are unable to protect, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights, our technology may be used without the payment of license fees and royalties, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our operating results and increase the likelihood of costly litigation. We have recorded long-lived assets, and our results of operations would be adversely affected if their value becomes impaired. We will record substantial amounts of purchased intangible assets and goodwill as a result of the Chipidea acquisition. If we complete additional acquisitions in the future, our purchased intangible assets amortization charge could further increase, and we may be required to record additional amounts of goodwill. We evaluate our long-lived assets, including purchased assets, for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable from its estimated future cash flows. In the future, if we determine that our long-lived assets are impaired, we will have to recognize additional charges for the impairment. We cannot be sure that we will not be required to record additional long-lived asset impairment charges in the future. Goodwill is evaluated annually for impairment in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if events and circumstances warrant, and our evaluation depends to a large degree on estimates and assumptions made by our management. Through fiscal 2007, our business is organized as one reporting unit. Accordingly, the assessment of impairment of goodwill was based on a comparison of the net book value to the market value of MIPS. However, in future periods, we may have multiple reporting units. Our assessment of any impairment of goodwill will be based on a comparison of the fair value of each of our reporting units to the carrying value of that reporting unit. Our determination of fair value relies on management’s assumptions of our future revenues, operating costs, and other relevant factors. If management’s estimates of future operating results change, or if there are changes to other assumptions such as the discount rate applied to future cash flows, the estimate of the fair value of our reporting units could change significantly, which could result in a goodwill impairment charge. The matters relating to the investigation by the Special Committee of the Board of Directors and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements may result in additional litigation and government enforcement actions. On August 30, 2006, we announced that our board of directors had formed a Special Committee consisting of independent directors and the Special Committee had hired independent counsel to conduct a full investigation of our historical option grant practices from the time of our initial public offering in July 1998 through June 2006. As a result of the independent investigation, as well as our internal review, our 16 management has concluded, and the Audit and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors agrees, that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes for certain stock option grants made in prior periods. While our management believes that we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for the stock option grants, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of past incorrect measurement dates. Accordingly, there is a risk that we may have to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or otherwise take other actions not currently contemplated. As described in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”, derivative complaints have been filed in federal courts against current and former officers and directors pertaining to allegations relating to stock option grants. Additional litigation based on similar allegations may also be filed. We have provided the results of our independent investigation to the SEC and we have responded to informal requests for documents and additional information. We intend to continue to provide the SEC with our full cooperation. No assurance can be given regarding the outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions relating to our past stock option practices. The resolution of these matters will be time consuming, expensive, and will distract our management from the conduct of our business. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 