ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the specific risk factors described below together with all other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this report, as these risks, among others, are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our historical results. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties applicable to our business. We are subject to intense competition that can constrain our ability to gain business, as well as our profitability. We believe that competition in parking facility management and our ancillary services is intense. The low cost of entry into the parking facility management business has led to a strongly competitive, fragmented market consisting primarily of a variety of entities ranging from single lot operators to large regional and national multi-facility operators, as well as municipal and other governmental entities that choose not to outsource their parking operations. Competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their services. We provide nearly all of our services under contracts, many of which are obtained through competitive bidding, and many of our competitors also have long-standing relationships with our clients. Providers of parking facility management services have traditionally competed on the basis of cost and quality of service. As we have worked to establish ourselves as one of the principal members of the industry, we compete predominately on the basis of high levels of service and strong relationships. We may not be able to, or may choose not to, compete with certain competitors on the basis of price. As a result, a greater proportion of our clients may switch to other service providers or self-manage. Furthermore, these strong competitive pressures could impede our success in bidding for profitable business and our ability to increase prices even as costs rise, thereby reducing margins. Our management contracts and leases expose us to certain risks. The loss or renewal on less favorable terms of a substantial number of management contracts or leases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A material reduction in the operating income associated with the integrated services we provide under management contracts and leases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our management contracts are typically for a term of one to three years, although the contracts may often be terminated, without cause, on 30 days’ notice or less, giving clients regular opportunities to attempt to negotiate a reduction in our fees or other allocated costs. Any loss of a significant number of clients could in the aggregate materially adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we are particularly exposed to increases in costs for locations that we operate under leases because we are generally responsible for all the operating expenses of our leased locations. An increase in cost of parking services could reduce our gross profit derived from locations that we operate under leases. Adverse litigation judgments or settlements resulting from legal proceedings in which we may be involved in the normal course of our business could affect our operations and financial condition. In the normal course of business, we are from time to time involved in various legal proceedings. We do not believe that any pending claim, proceeding or litigation, either alone or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our financial position; however, the outcome of these legal proceedings cannot be predicted. It is possible that an unfavorable outcome of some or all of the matters could cause us to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. Any significant adverse litigation judgments or settlements could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The operation of our business is dependent upon key personnel. Our success is, and will continue to be, substantially dependent upon the continued services of our executive management team. The loss of the services of one or more of the members of our executive 17 Table of Contents management team could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we have entered into employment agreements with, and historically have been successful in retaining the services of, our executive management, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain them in the future. In addition, our continued growth depends upon our ability to attract and retain skilled operating managers and employees. Deterioration in economic conditions in general could reduce the demand for our parking and ancillary services and, as a result, reduce our earnings and adversely affect our financial condition. Adverse changes in global, national and local economic conditions could have a negative impact on our business. High domestic unemployment has contributed to reduced discretionary spending by consumers and slowed or reduced economic activity by businesses in the United States and most major global economies compared to 2007 levels. In addition, our business operations tend to be concentrated in large urban areas. Many of our customers are workers who commute by car to their places of employment in these urban centers. Our business could be materially adversely affected to the extent that weak economic conditions or demographic factors have resulted in the elimination of jobs and high unemployment in these large urban areas. In addition, increased unemployment levels, the movement of white-collar jobs from urban centers to suburbs or out of North America entirely, increased office vacancies in urban areas, movement toward home office alternatives, or lower consumer spending could reduce consumer demand for our services. Adverse changes in economic conditions could also lead to a decline in parking at airports and commercial facilities, including facilities owned by retail operators and hotels. In particular, reductions in parking at leased facilities can lower our profit because a decrease in revenue would be exacerbated by fixed costs that we must pay under our leases. As of December 31, 2010, we operated 10% of our locations under leases, and for the year ended December 31, 2010, we derived 12% of our gross profit from leases. If adverse economic conditions reduce discretionary spending, business travel or other economic activity that fuels demand for our services, our earnings could be reduced. Adverse changes in local and national economic conditions could also depress prices for our services or cause our clients to cancel their agreements to purchase our services. We must comply with public and private regulations that may impose significant costs on us. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. These laws typically impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. In connection with the operation of parking facilities, we may be potentially liable for such costs. In addition, from time to time we are involved in environmental issues at certain of locations or in connection with our operations. While it is difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of any of these matters, based on information currently available, our management believes that none of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The cost of defending against claims of liability, or remediation of a contaminated property, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, several state and local laws have been passed in recent years that encourage car pooling and the use of mass transit. Laws and regulations that reduce the number of cars and vehicles being driven could adversely impact our business. In connection with certain transportation services provided to our clients, including shuttle bus operations, we provide the vehicles and the drivers to operate these transportation services. The U.S. Department of Transportation and various state agencies exercise broad powers over these transportation services, including, licensing and authorizations, safety and insurance requirements. Our employee drivers must also comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the Department Transportation, including those related to drug and alcohol testing and service hours. We may become subject to new and more restrictive federal and 18 Table of Contents state regulations. Compliance with such regulations could hamper our ability to provide qualified drivers and increase our operating costs. We are also subject to consumer credit laws and credit card industry rules and regulations relating to the processing of credit card transactions, including the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act and the Payment Card Data Security Standard. This law and these industry standards impose substantial financial penalties for non-compliance. In addition, we are subject to laws generally applicable to businesses, including but not limited to federal, state and local regulations relating to wage and hour matters, employee classification, mandatory healthcare benefits, unlawful workplace discrimination and whistle blowing. Any actual or alleged failure to comply with any regulation applicable to our business or any whistle-blowing claim, even if without merit, could result in costly litigation, regulatory action or otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We collect and remit sales/parking taxes and file tax returns for and on behalf of ourselves and our clients. We are affected by laws and regulations that may impose a direct assessment on us for failure to remit sales/parking taxes and filing of tax returns for ourselves and on behalf of our clients. The financial difficulties or bankruptcy of one or more of our major clients could adversely affect our results. Future revenue and our ability to collect accounts receivable depend, in part, on the financial strength of our clients. We estimate an allowance for accounts we do not consider collectible, and this allowance adversely impacts profitability. In the event that our clients experience financial difficulty, become unable to obtain financing or seek bankruptcy protection, our profitability would be further impacted by our failure to collect accounts receivable in excess of the estimated allowance. Additionally, our future revenue would be reduced by the loss of these clients or by the cancellation of leases or management contracts by clients in bankruptcy. Additional funds would need to be reserved for future insurance losses if such losses are worse than expected. We provide liability and worker’s compensation insurance coverage consistent with our obligations to our clients under our various management contracts and leases. We are obligated to reimburse our insurance carrier for each loss incurred in the current policy year up to the amount of a deductible specified in our insurance policies. The per-occurrence deductible for our various liability and workers’ compensation policies is $250,000. We also purchase property insurance that provides coverage for loss or damage to our property, and in some cases our clients’ property, as well as business interruption coverage for lost operating income and certain associated expenses. The deductible applicable to any given loss under our property insurance policy varies based upon the insured values and the peril that causes the loss. Our financial statements reflect our funding of all such obligations based upon guidance and evaluation we have received from third-party insurance professionals. There can be no assurance, however, that the ultimate amount of our obligations will not exceed the amount presently funded or accrued, in which case we would need to set aside additional funds to reserve for any such excess. Changes in insurance reserves as a result of periodic evaluations of the liabilities can cause swings in our operating results that may not be indicative of the operations of our ongoing business. Additionally, our obligations could increase if we receive a greater number of insurance claims, or if the severity of, or the administrative costs associated with, those claims generally increases. A material increase in insurance costs due to a change in the number or severity of claims, claim costs or premiums paid by us could have a material adverse effect on our operating income. Labor disputes could lead to loss of revenues or expense variations. At December 31, 2010, approximately 29% of our employees were represented by labor unions. Approximately 33% of our collective bargaining contracts, representing approximately 16% of our employees, are up for renewal in 2011. In addition, at any given time, we may face a number of union organizing drives. 19 Table of Contents When one or more of our major collective bargaining agreements becomes subject to renegotiation or when we face union organizing drives, the union and we may disagree on important issues that, in turn, could lead to a strike, work slowdown or other job actions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew existing labor union contracts on acceptable terms. In such cases, there are no assurances that we would be able to staff sufficient employees for our short-term needs. A strike, work slowdown or other job action could in some cases disrupt us from providing services, resulting in reduced revenues. If declines in client service occur or if our clients are targeted for sympathy strikes by other unionized workers, contract cancellations could result. The result of negotiating a first time agreement or renegotiating an existing collective bargaining agreement could result in a substantial increase in labor and benefits expenses that we may be unable to pass through to clients. In addition, potential legislation could make it significantly easier for union organizing drives to be successful and could give third-party arbitrators the ability to impose terms of collective bargaining agreements upon us and a labor union if we and such union are unable to agree to the terms of a collective bargaining agreement. In addition, we make contributions to multiemployer benefit plans on behalf of certain employees covered by collective bargaining agreements and could be responsible for paying unfunded liabilities incurred by such benefit plans, which amount could be material. Natural disasters or acts of terrorism, including cyber terrorism, could disrupt services. Storms, earthquakes, drought, floods or other natural disasters or acts of terrorism may result in reduced revenues. Disasters may also cause economic dislocations throughout the country. Acts of cyber terrorism involve the premeditated use of disruptive activities, or the threat thereof, involving computers and/or networks, with the intention to cause harm or further social, ideological, religious, political or similar objectives. The occurrence of acts of cyber terrorism such as website defacement, denial of automated payment services, sabotage of our proprietary on-demand technology or the use of electronic social media to disseminate unfounded or otherwise harmful allegations to our reputation, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, terrorist attacks have resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased government regulation of airlines and airport facilities, including imposition of minimum distances between parking facilities and terminals, resulting in the elimination of currently managed parking facilities. We derive a significant percentage of our gross profit from parking facilities and parking related services in and around airports. The Federal Aviation Administration generally prohibits parking within 300 feet of airport terminals during periods of heightened security. While the prohibition is not currently in effect, there can be no assurance that this governmental prohibition will not again be reinstated. The existing regulations governing parking within 300 feet of airport terminals or future regulations may prevent us from using certain parking spaces. Reductions in the number of parking spaces and air travelers may reduce our revenue and cash flow for both our leased facilities and those facilities we operate under management contracts. State and municipal government clients may sell or enter into long-term leases of parking-related assets to our competitors. In order to raise additional revenue, a number of state and municipal governments have either sold or entered into long-term leases of public assets or may be contemplating such transactions. The assets that are the subject of such transactions have included government-owned parking garages located in downtown commercial districts and parking operations at airports. The sale or long-term leasing of such government-owned parking assets to our competitors or clients of our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to collect receivables on a timely basis and our cash flow. The United States and global economies and the financial and credit markets continue to experience slow growth, and there continues to be diminished liquidity and credit availability in certain sectors. In addition, the tightening of credit in financial markets may adversely affect the ability of our clients to obtain financing, which could adversely impact our ability to collect amounts due from such clients or result in a decrease, or 20 Table of Contents cancellation, of our services under our client contracts. Declines in our ability to collect receivables or in the level of client spending could adversely affect the results of our operations and our liquidity. Our ability to expand our business will be dependent upon the availability of adequate capital. The rate of our expansion will depend in part upon the availability of adequate capital, which in turn will depend in large part upon cash flow generated by our business and the availability of equity and debt capital. In addition, our senior credit facility contains provisions that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and/or make substantial investments or acquisitions. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to finance our current growth strategy. The sureties for our performance bond program may elect not to provide us with new or renewal performance bonds for any reason. As is customary in the industry, a surety provider can refuse to provide a bond principal with new or renewal surety bonds. If any existing or future surety provider refuses to provide us with surety bonds, either generally or because we are unwilling or unable to post collateral at levels sufficient to satisfy the surety’s requirements, there can be no assurance that we would be able to find alternate providers on acceptable terms, or at all. Our inability to provide surety bonds could also result in the loss of existing contracts. Failure to find a provider of surety bonds, and our resulting inability to bid for new contracts or renew existing contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Federal health care reform legislation may adversely affect our business and results of operations. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law in the United States (collectively, the “Health Care Reform Laws”). The Health Care Reform Laws include a large number of health-related provisions that become effective over the next four years, including requiring most individuals to have health insurance and establishing new regulations on health plans. Although the Health Care Reform Laws do not mandate that employers offer health insurance, beginning in 2014 penalties will be assessed on large employers who do not offer health insurance that meets certain affordability or benefit requirements. Providing such additional health insurance benefits to our employees, or the payment of penalties if such coverage is not provided, would increase our expense. If we are unable to raise the rates we charge our clients to cover this expense, such increases in expense could reduce our operating profit. In addition, under the Health Care Reform Laws employers will have to file a significant amount of additional information with the Internal Revenue Service and will have to develop systems and processes to track requisite information. We will have to modify our current systems, which could increase our general and administrative expense. We do not maintain insurance coverage for all possible risks. We maintain a comprehensive portfolio of insurance policies to help protect us against loss or damage incurred from a wide variety of insurable risks. Each year, we review with our professional insurance advisers whether the insurance policies and associated coverages that we maintain are sufficient to adequately protect us from the various types of risk to which we are exposed in the ordinary course of business. That analysis takes into account various pertinent factors such as the likelihood that we would incur a material loss from any given risk as well as the cost of obtaining insurance coverage against any such risk. While we believe that we maintain a comprehensive portfolio of insurance that is consistent with customary business practices and adequately protects us from the risks that we typically face in the ordinary course of our business, there can be no assurance that we may not sustain a material loss for which we do not maintain any, or adequate insurance coverage. 21 Table of Contents 