ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the specific risk factors described below together with all other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Report, as these risks, among others, are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our historical result, and the occurrence of the adverse developments described in these risk factors could materially and adversely harm our business , financial condition, results of operations or preopects. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties applicable to our business. We may be unable to integrate Central's business with our own successfully. On October 2, 2012, we completed our acquisition of Central Parking Corporation, and Central is now our wholly owned subsidiary. We are devoting significant management attention and resources to integrating Central's business practices and operations with our own. Potential difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process include the following: •the potential inability to successfully combine Central's business with our own in a manner that permits us to achieve the cost synergies expected to be achieved within two years of the completion of the merger and other benefits anticipated to result from the merger; 20 Table of Contents •the potential inability to integrate Central's customer-facing products and services, such as its centralized customer service centers, direct-to-consumer marketing programs, various web-based applications and enhanced technology applications such as those used by its remote management division; •challenges leveraging the customer information and technology of the two companies; •challenges effectuating the diversification strategy, including challenges achieving revenue growth from sales of each company's products and services to the clients and customers of the other company; •complexities associated with managing the combined businesses, including difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets of each of the companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, clients, employees, lenders and other constituencies; and •potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the merger. It is possible that the integration process could result in diversion of the attention of our management, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, clients, employees and other constituencies or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. We incurred substantial additional indebtedness in connection with the Central Merger. In connection with the Central Merger, we entered into a credit agreement dated October 2, 2012 providing for $450.0 million in secured Senior Credit Facility ("Senior Credit Facility) consisting of (1) a $200.0 million five-year revolving credit facility and (2) a $250.0 million term loan facility with Bank of America, N.A., Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and certain other financial institutions. In conjunction with Central Merger, we assumed approximately $217.7 million of Central's debt, net of cash acquired, which was repaid at closing using the proceeds of the Senior Credit Facility. In addition, the proceeds from these borrowings have been used by us to finance in part the Central Merger, the costs and expenses related to the Central Merger, our ongoing working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. As a result, we have indebtedness that is substantially greater than our indebtedness prior to the Central Merger. This higher level of indebtedness may: •require us to dedicate a greater percentage of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund capital expenditures, pursue other acquisitions or investments in new technologies, make stock repurchases, pay dividends and for general corporate purposes; •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions, including increases in interest rates if the borrowings bear interest at variable rates or if such indebtedness is refinanced at a time when interest rates are higher; and •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in or challenges relating to our business and industry, creating competitive disadvantages compared to other competitors with lower debt levels and borrowing costs. We cannot assure you that cash flow from operations, combined with additional borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility and any future credit facility, will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay our indebtedness, or to fund other liquidity needs. If the consolidated leverage ratio exceeds certain thresholds, the interest rate on indebtedness outstanding under our credit facility will be higher. In addition, if the consolidated leverage ratio exceeds certain other thresholds, we will be required to make mandatory prepayments of our outstanding indebtedness using excess free cash flow. 21 Table of Contents We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, which could cause the related risks to intensify. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before their respective maturities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our Senior Credit Facility, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to refinance our debt, we may default under the terms of our indebtedness, which could lead to an acceleration of the debt. We do not expect that we could repay all of our outstanding indebtedness if the repayment of such indebtedness was accelerated. The Central Merger may result in a loss of customers, clients and strategic alliances. As a result of the Central Merger, some of our customers, clients, potential customers or clients or strategic partners may terminate their business relationship with us. Potential clients or strategic partners may delay entering into, or decide not to enter into, a business relationship with us because of the Central Merger. If customer or client relationships or strategic alliances are adversely affected by the Central Merger, our business and financial performance could suffer. Our management contracts and leases expose us to certain risks, including structural repair obligations under certain lease contracts The loss or renewal on less favorable terms of a substantial number of management contracts or leases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A material reduction in the operating income associated with the integrated services we provide under management contracts and leases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our management contracts are typically for a term of one to three years, although the contracts may often be terminated, without cause, on 30 days' notice or less, giving clients regular opportunities to attempt to negotiate a reduction in fees or other allocated costs. Any loss of a significant number of clients could in the aggregate materially adversely affect our operating results. We are particularly exposed to increases in costs for locations that we operate under leases because we are generally responsible for all the operating expenses of our leased locations. Additionally, some of our leases acquired in the Central Merger include provisions allocating to us responsibility for all structural repairs required on the property, including repairs arising as a result of ordinary wear and tear. We may incur costs for structural repair obligations in 2014 and future years, although we are not yet able to estimate the amount of our liability for these repairs in any particular year or in the aggregate. Additionally, the applicable indemnity under the merger agreement may not cover all such obligations, and there will be timing differences between our payments to satisfy these obligations and our receipt of indemnification thereof, and some indemnification obligations may be satisfied through the surrender of shares of our common stock. Accordingly, our expenditures to cover these structural repair obligations could have a material adverse impact on our operating results (including our gross profit derived from locations that we operate under leases) and cash flows for 2014 and future years. Any other increase in the cost of parking services could also reduce our gross profit derived from locations that we operate under leases. As of December 31, 2013, we operated 20% of our locations under leases, compared to 9% prior to the Central Merger. Adverse litigation judgments or settlements resulting from legal proceedings in which we may be involved in the normal course of business could affect our operations and financial condition. In the normal course of business, we are from time to time involved in various legal proceedings. The outcome of these legal proceedings cannot be predicted. It is possible that an unfavorable outcome of some or all of the matters could cause us to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. Any significant adverse litigation, judgments or settlements could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results 22 Table of Contents of operations. In addition, Central is subject to a number of ongoing legal proceedings, and we will incur substantial expenses defending such matters and may have judgments levied against us that are substantial and may not be covered by reserves. We have incurred substantial expenses and expect to incur additional substantial expenses related to the Central Merger and our integration with Central. As of December 31, 2013, we have incurred or expect to incur approximately $51.9 million in total merger and integration costs, including $10.2 million in transaction costs, $31.4 million for synergy planning and integration costs and $10.3 million for financing costs and original issue discount costs. There are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount of merger and integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. To the extent these merger and integration expenses are higher than anticipated, our future operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected and our ability to meet the leverage ratio and fixed charged ratio mandated by our Senior Credit Facility may be impaired. We are subject to intense competition that could constrain our ability to gain business, as well as our profitability. We believe that competition in parking facility management and ancillary services is intense. The low cost of entry into the parking facility management business has led to a strongly competitive, fragmented market consisting primarily of a variety of entities ranging from single lot operators to large regional and national multi-facility operators, as well as municipal and other governmental entities that choose not to outsource their parking operations. Competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements, devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their services or develop technology that is as or more successful than our proprietary technology solutions that are designed to strengthen customer loyalty and optimize facility pricing and performance. We provide nearly all of our services under contracts, many of which are obtained through competitive bidding, and many of our competitors also have long-standing relationships with our clients. Providers of parking facility management services have traditionally competed on the basis of cost and quality of service. As we have worked to establish ourselves as principal members of the industry, we compete predominately on the basis of high levels of service and strong relationships. We may not be able to, or may choose not to, compete with certain competitors on the basis of price. As a result, a greater proportion of our clients may switch to other service providers or self-manage. Furthermore, these strong competitive pressures could impede our success in bidding for profitable business and our ability to increase prices even as costs rise, thereby reducing margins. We must comply with public and private regulations that may impose significant costs on us. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. These laws typically impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. We may be potentially liable for such costs as a result of our operation of parking facilities. Additionally, Central previously owned a large number of real properties; we acquired a partial ownership interest in six parking facilities as part of the Central Merger and as of December 31, 2013, we held a partial ownership interest in four of these parking facilities. We may now be liable for such costs as a result of such previous and current ownership. In addition, from time to time we are involved in environmental issues at certain locations or in connection with our operations. The cost of defending against claims of liability, or remediation of a contaminated property, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, 23 Table of Contents several state and local laws have been passed in recent years that encourage car pooling and the use of mass transit. Laws and regulations that reduce the number of cars and vehicles being driven could adversely impact our business. In connection with certain transportation services provided to our clients, including shuttle bus operations, we provide the vehicles and the drivers to operate these transportation services. The U.S. Department of Transportation and various state agencies exercise broad powers over these transportation services, including, licensing and authorizations, safety and insurance requirements. Our employee drivers must also comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the Department of Transportation, including those related to drug and alcohol testing and service hours. We may become subject to new and more restrictive federal and state regulations. Compliance with such regulations could hamper our ability to provide qualified drivers and increase our operating costs. We are also subject to consumer credit laws and credit card industry rules and regulations relating to the processing of credit card transactions, including the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act and the Payment Card Data Security Standard. These laws and these industry standards impose substantial financial penalties for non-compliance. In addition, we are subject to laws generally applicable to businesses, including but not limited to federal, state and local regulations relating to wage and hour matters, employee classification, mandatory healthcare benefits, unlawful workplace discrimination and whistle blowing. Any actual or alleged failure to comply with any regulation applicable to our business or any whistle-blowing claim, even if without merit, could result in costly litigation, regulatory action or otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We collect and remit sales/parking taxes and file tax returns for and on behalf of ourselves and our clients. We are affected by laws and regulations that may impose a direct assessment on us for failure to remit sales/parking taxes and filing of tax returns for ourselves and on behalf of our clients. Deterioration in economic conditions in general could reduce the demand for parking and ancillary services and, as a result, reduce our earnings and adversely affect our financial condition. Adverse changes in global, national and local economic conditions could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, our business operations tend to be concentrated in large urban areas. Many of our customers are workers who commute by car to their places of employment in these urban centers. Our business could be materially adversely affected to the extent that weak economic conditions or demographic factors have resulted in the elimination of jobs and high unemployment in these large urban areas. In addition, increased unemployment levels, the movement of white-collar jobs from urban centers to suburbs or out of North America entirely, increased office vacancies in urban areas, movement toward home office alternatives or lower consumer spending could reduce consumer demand for our services. Adverse changes in economic conditions could also lead to a decline in parking at airports and commercial facilities, including facilities owned by retail operators and hotels. In particular, reductions in parking at leased facilities can lower our profit because a decrease in revenue would be exacerbated by fixed costs that we must pay under our leases. If adverse economic conditions reduce discretionary spending, business travel or other economic activity that fuels demand for our services, our earnings could be reduced. Adverse changes in local and national economic conditions could also depress prices for our services or cause clients to cancel their agreements to purchase our services. 24 Table of Contents The financial difficulties or bankruptcy of one or more of our major clients could adversely affect our results. Future revenue and our ability to collect accounts receivable depend, in part, on the financial strength of our clients. We estimate an allowance for accounts we do not consider collectible, and this allowance adversely impacts profitability. In the event that our clients experience financial difficulty, become unable to obtain financing or seek bankruptcy protection, our profitability would be further impacted by our failure to collect accounts receivable in excess of the estimated allowance. Additionally, our future revenue would be reduced by the loss of these clients or by the cancellation of leases or management contracts by clients in bankruptcy. Additional funds would need to be reserved for future insurance losses if such losses are worse than expected. We provide liability and worker's compensation insurance coverage consistent with our obligations to our clients under our various management contracts and leases. We are obligated to reimburse our insurance carriers for, or pay directly, each loss incurred up to the amount of a specified deductible or self-insured retention. The per-occurrence deductible is $250,000 for our workers' compensation and garagekeepers legal liability policies and $500,000 for our automobile liability policy. The per-occurrence self-insured retention for our general liability policy is $500,000. We also purchase property insurance that provides coverage for loss or damage to our property, and in some cases our clients' property, as well as business interruption coverage for lost operating income and certain associated expenses. The deductible applicable to any given loss under the property insurance policies varies based upon the insured values and the peril that causes the loss. The stop-loss limit applicable under the group health insurance we provide for eligible employees is $175,000 per illness. Our financial statements reflect our funding of all such obligations based upon guidance and evaluation received from third-party insurance professionals. There can be no assurance, however, that the ultimate amount of our obligations will not exceed the amount presently funded or accrued, in which case we would need to set aside additional funds to reserve for any such excess. Changes in insurance reserves as a result of periodic evaluations of the liabilities can cause swings in operating results that may not be indicative of the operations of our ongoing business. Additionally, our obligations could increase if we receive a greater number of insurance claims, or if the severity of, or the administrative costs associated with, those claims generally increases. A material increase in insurance costs due to a change in the number or severity of claims, claim costs or premiums paid by us could have a material adverse effect on our operating income. Labor disputes could lead to loss of revenues or expense variations. At December 31, 2013, approximately 34% of our employees were represented by labor unions and approximately 27% of our collective bargaining contracts are up for renewal in 2014, representing approximately 11% of our employees. In addition, at any given time, we may face a number of union organizing drives. When one or more of our major collective bargaining agreements becomes subject to renegotiation or when we face union organizing drives, we may disagree with the union on important issues that, in turn, could lead to a strike, work slowdown or other job actions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew existing labor union contracts on acceptable terms. In such cases, there are no assurances that we would be able to staff sufficient employees for our short-term needs. A strike, work slowdown or other job action could in some cases disrupt us from providing services, resulting in reduced revenues. If declines in client service occur or if our clients are targeted for sympathy strikes by other unionized workers, contract cancellations could result. The result of negotiating a first time agreement or renegotiating an existing collective bargaining agreement could result in a substantial increase in labor and benefits expenses that we may be unable to pass through to clients. In addition, potential legislation could make it significantly easier for union organizing drives to be successful and could give third-party arbitrators the ability to impose terms of collective bargaining agreements upon 25 Table of Contents us and a labor union if we are unable to agree with such union on the terms of a collective bargaining agreement. In addition, we make contributions to multiemployer benefit plans on behalf of certain employees covered by collective bargaining agreements and could be responsible for paying unfunded liabilities incurred by such benefit plans, which amount could be material. The restatement of our historical financial statements has already consumed, and may continue to consume, a significant amount of our time and resources and may have a material adverse effect on stock price and subject us to claims. We have restated certain historical financial statements to reflect a correction in our accounting for deficiency payments made pursuant to the Bradley Agreement. We have also determined that, solely as a result of our prior accounting for the Bradley Agreement, we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and that, accordingly, our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of the end of certain prior reporting periods, even though we had previously determined that they were effective. It is difficult to predict all of the ramifications to us from this restatement. The restatement process was time and resource-intensive and involved substantial attention from management and significant costs and expenses, including for legal and other professional advisors and for third parties retained to assist us with the restatement. Although we have now completed the restatement, it is possible that we will have inquiries from the SEC and/or Nasdaq regarding our restated financial statements or related matters, which could consume a significant amount of our resources. Moreover, many companies that have been required to restate their historical financial statements have experienced volatility in stock prices and declines in stock prices and stockholder lawsuits, which can be expensive to defend and divert management attention and resources. We may suffer similar consequences as a result of our restatement. Natural disasters or acts of terrorism could disrupt services. Hurricanes, storms, earthquakes, drought, floods or other natural disasters or acts of terrorism may result in reduced revenues. Disasters may also cause economic dislocations throughout the country. In addition, terrorist attacks have resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased government regulation of airlines and airport facilities, including imposition of minimum distances between parking facilities and terminals, resulting in the elimination of currently managed parking facilities. We derive a significant percentage of our gross profit from parking facilities and parking related services in and around airports. The Federal Aviation Administration generally prohibits parking within 300 feet of airport terminals during periods of heightened security. While the prohibition is not currently in effect, there can be no assurance that this governmental prohibition will not again be reinstated. The existing regulations governing parking within 300 feet of airport terminals or future regulations may prevent us from using certain parking spaces. Reductions in the number of parking spaces and air travelers may reduce our revenue and cash flow for both our leased facilities and those facilities we operate under management contracts. The Company is increasingly dependent on information technology, and potential disruption, cyber attacks, cyber terrorism, security breaches, and expanding social media vehicles present new risks. We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems to manage and support a variety of business processes and activities, and any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems could negatively impact our operations. In addition, there is a risk of business interruption, reputational damage and potential legal liability damages from leakage of confidential information. Acts of cyber terrorism involve the premeditated use of disruptive activities, or the threat thereof, involving computers and/or networks, with the intention to cause harm or further social, ideological, religious, political or similar objectives. The occurrence of acts of cyber terrorism such as 26 Table of Contents website defacement, denial of automated payment services, sabotage of our proprietary on-demand technology or the use of electronic social media to disseminate unfounded or otherwise harmful allegations to our reputation, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The inappropriate use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage. Negative posts or comments about us on any social networking website could seriously damage our reputation. In addition, the disclosure of non-public information through external media channels could lead to information loss. Identifying new points of entry as social media continues to expand represents new challenges. Any business interruptions or damage to our reputation could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. State and municipal government clients may sell or enter into long-term leases of parking-related assets to our competitors. In order to raise additional revenue, a number of state and municipal governments have either sold or entered into long-term leases of public assets or may be contemplating such transactions. The assets that are the subject of such transactions have included government-owned parking garages located in downtown commercial districts and parking operations at airports. The sale or long-term leasing of such government-owned parking assets to our competitors or clients of our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to expand our business will be dependent upon the availability of adequate capital. The rate of our expansion will depend in part on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn will depend in large part on cash flow generated by our business and the availability of equity and debt capital. In addition, our senior credit facility contains provisions that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and/or make substantial investments or acquisitions. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to finance our current growth strategy. The sureties for our performance bond program may elect not to provide us with new or renewal performance bonds for any reason. As is customary in the industry, a surety provider can refuse to provide a bond principal with new or renewal surety bonds. If any existing or future surety provider refuses to provide us with surety bonds, either generally or because we are unwilling or unable to post collateral at levels sufficient to satisfy the surety's requirements, there can be no assurance that we would be able to find alternate providers on acceptable terms, or at all. Our inability to provide surety bonds could also result in the loss of existing contracts. Failure to find a provider of surety bonds, and our resulting inability to bid for new contracts or renew existing contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Federal health care reform legislation may adversely affect our business and results of operations. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law in the U.S. (collectively, the "Health Care Reform Laws"). The Health Care Reform Laws include a large number of health-related provisions that become effective over the next four years, including requiring most individuals to have health insurance and establishing new regulations on health plans. Although the Health Care Reform Laws do not mandate that employers offer health insurance, penalties will be assessed on large employers who do not offer health insurance that meets certain affordability or benefit requirements beginning January 1, 2015. Providing such additional health insurance benefits to our employees, or the payment of penalties if such coverage is not provided, would increase our expenses. If we are unable to raise the rates we charge our clients to cover this expense, such increases in expense could reduce our operating profit. 27 Table of Contents In addition, under the Health Care Reform Laws, employers will have to file a significant amount of additional information with the Internal Revenue Service and will have to develop systems and processes to track requisite information. We will have to modify our current systems to do so, which could increase our general and administrative expense. We do not maintain insurance coverage for all possible risks. We maintain a comprehensive portfolio of insurance policies to help protect us against loss or damage incurred from a wide variety of insurable risks. Each year, we review with our professional insurance advisers whether the insurance policies and associated coverages that we maintain are sufficient to adequately protect us from the various types of risk to which we are exposed in the ordinary course of business. That analysis takes into account various pertinent factors such as the likelihood that we would incur a material loss from any given risk, as well as the cost of obtaining insurance coverage against any such risk. There can be no assurance that we may not sustain a material loss for which we do not maintain any, or adequate, insurance coverage. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 28 Table of Contents 