Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and results of operations are subject to numerous risks, uncertainties and other factors that you should be aware of, some of which are described below. The risks, uncertainties and other factors described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Any of the risks, uncertainties and other factors could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline substantially. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition We have a history of losses and will incur additional losses. We are a development stage company with a limited history of operations, and do not expect sufficient revenues to support our operation in the immediately foreseeable future. In the fiscal year ended July 31, 2010, we received modest revenues which primarily came from sales of our over-the-counter confectionary products. We do not expect to receive any revenues in Ecuador until we enter into a definitive manufacturing and distribution agreement with our business partner there. While we have entered into a licensing and distribution agreement with a leading Indian-based pharmaceutical company and insulin distributor, we do not anticipate significant revenue from the sale of Generex Oral-lyn™ in India during the next fiscal year. We have also entered into subdistribution agreements in Lebanon and Algeria but do not expect any signification revenue from the sale of the product in those countries in calendar year 2010. 19 To date, we have not been profitable and our accumulated net loss available to shareholders was $325,302,472 at July 31, 2010. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development, including clinical trials, and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. While we seek to attain profitability, we cannot be sure that we will ever achieve product and other revenue sufficient for us to attain this objective. With the exception of Generex Oral-lyn™ which is currently available for sale in Ecuador and has been approved for sale in India (subject to the completion of an in-country study), Lebanon and Algeria and our over-the-counter glucose and energy spray products, Glucose RapidSpray™, BaBOOM!™ Energy Spray and Crave-Nx™, our product candidates are in research or early stages of pre-clinical and clinical development. We will need to conduct substantial additional research, development and clinical trials. We will also need to receive necessary regulatory clearances both in the United States and foreign countries and obtain meaningful patent protection for and establish freedom to commercialize each of our product candidates. We must also complete further clinical trials and seek regulatory approvals for Generex Oral-lyn™ in countries outside of Ecuador, India, Lebanon and Algeria. We cannot be sure that we will obtain required regulatory approvals, or successfully research, develop, commercialize, manufacture and market any other product candidates. We expect that these activities, together with future general and administrative activities, will result in significant expenses for the foreseeable future. We will need additional capital. To progress in product development or marketing, we will need additional capital which may not be available to us. This may delay our progress in product development or market. We will require funds in excess of our existing cash resources: · To proceed with the development of our buccal insulin product; · To finance the research and development of new products based on our buccal delivery and immunomedicine technologies, including clinical testing relating to new products; · To finance the research and development activities of our subsidiary Antigen with respect to other potential technologies; · To commercially launch and market developed products; · To develop or acquire other technologies or other lines of business; · To establish and expand our manufacturing capabilities; · To finance general and administrative activities that are not related to specific products under development; and · To otherwise carry on business. In the past, we have funded most of our development and other costs through equity (including convertible debt) financing. We expect that our current cash position will not be sufficient to meet our working capital needs for the next twelve months based on the pace of our planned activities. Therefore, we will require additional funds to support our working capital requirements and any expansion or other activities, or will need to significantly reduce our clinical trials and other planned activities. Because our operating and capital resources are insufficient to meet future requirements, we will have to raise additional funds in the near future to continue the development and commercialization of our products. Unforeseen problems, including materially negative developments in our clinical trials or in general economic conditions, could interfere with our ability to raise additional equity capital or materially adversely affect the terms upon which such funding is available. It is possible that we will be unable to obtain additional funding as and when we need it. If we were unable to obtain additional funding as and when needed, we could be forced to delay the progress of certain development efforts. Such a scenario poses risks. For example, our ability to bring a product to market and obtain revenues could be delayed, our competitors could develop products ahead of us, and/or we could be forced to relinquish rights to technologies, products or potential products. Our research and development and marketing efforts may be highly dependent on corporate collaborators and other third parties who may not devote sufficient time, resources and attention to our programs, which may limit our efforts to successfully develop and market potential products. Because we have limited resources, we have sought to enter into collaboration agreements with other pharmaceutical companies that will assist us in developing, testing, obtaining governmental approval for and commercializing products using our buccal delivery and immunomedicine technologies. Any collaborator with whom we may enter into such collaboration agreements may not support fully our research and commercial interests since our program may compete for time, attention and resources with such collaborator's internal programs. Therefore, these collaborators may not commit sufficient resources to our program to move it forward effectively, or that the program will advance as rapidly as it might if we had retained complete control of all research, development, regulatory and commercialization decisions. 20 Risks Related to Our Technologies With the exception of Generex Oral-lyn™, Glucose RapidSpray™, BaBOOM! ™ Energy Spray and Crave-Nx™, our technologies and products are at an early stage of development and we cannot expect significant revenues in respect thereof in the foreseeable future. We have no products approved for commercial sale at the present time with the exception of Generex Oral-lyn™ in Ecuador, Lebanon, Algeria and India(subject to further study), and our glucose sprays which are available over-the-counter in certain retail outlets in the United States and Canada and in the Middle East. To be profitable, we must not only successfully research, develop and obtain regulatory approval for our products under development, but also manufacture, introduce, market and distribute them once development is completed. We have yet to manufacture, market and distribute these products on a large-scale commercial basis, and we expect to receive only modest revenues, if any, from product sales in fiscal year 2011. We may not be successful in one or more of these stages of the development or commercialization of our products, and/or any of the products we develop may not be commercially viable. Until we can establish that they are commercially viable products, we will not receive significant revenues from ongoing operations. Until we receive regulatory approval to sell our pharmaceutical products in additional countries, our ability to generate revenues from operations may be limited and those revenues may be insufficient to sustain operations. Many factors impact our ability to obtain approvals for commercially viable products. Our only pharmaceutical product that has been approved for commercial sale by drug regulatory authorities is our oral insulin spray formulation, and that approval was obtained in Ecuador, Lebanon, Algeria and India (subject to the completion of an in-country study). We have begun the regulatory approval process for our oral insulin, buccal morphine and fentanyl products in other countries, and we have initiated late stage clinical trials of Generex Oral-lyn™ at some of our clinical trial sites in North America according to the Phase III clinical plan. Our immunomedicine products are in the pre-clinical stage of development, with the exception of a Phase II trial in human patients with stage II HER-2/neu positive breast cancer (U.S.), a Phase I trial in human patients with prostate cancer (Athens, Greece) completed in August 2009, a Phase I trial in human patients with breast or ovarian cancer (U.S.) and a Phase I trial in human volunteers of a peptide vaccine for use against the H5N1 avian influenza virus (Beirut, Lebanon). Pre-clinical and clinical trials of our products, and the manufacturing and marketing of our technologies, are subject to extensive, costly and rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the United States, Canada and other countries. The process of obtaining required regulatory approvals from the FDA and other regulatory authorities often takes many years, is expensive and can vary significantly based on the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates. For these reasons, it is possible we will not receive regulatory approval for any prescription pharmaceutical product candidate in any countries other than Ecuador, Lebanon, Algeria and India. In addition, we cannot be sure when or if we will be permitted by regulatory agencies to undertake additional clinical trials or to commence any particular phase of clinical trials. Because of this, statements in this Annual Report regarding the expected timing of clinical trials cannot be regarded as actual predictions of when we will obtain regulatory approval for any "phase" of clinical trials. Delays in obtaining United States or other foreign approvals for our pharmaceutical products could result in substantial additional costs to us, and, therefore, could adversely affect our ability to compete with other companies. If regulatory approval is ultimately granted in any countries other than Ecuador, Lebanon, Algeria and India, the approval may place limitations on the intended use of the product we wish to commercialize, and may restrict the way in which we are permitted to market the product. Due to legal and factual uncertainties regarding the scope and protection afforded by patents and other proprietary rights, we may not have meaningful protection from competition. Our long-term success will substantially depend upon our ability to protect our proprietary technologies from infringement, misappropriation, discovery and duplication and avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others. Our patent rights and the patent rights of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies in general, are highly uncertain and include complex legal and factual issues. Because of this, our pending patent applications may not be granted. These uncertainties also mean that any patents that we own or will obtain in the future could be subject to challenge, and even if not challenged, may not provide us with meaningful protection from competition. Due to our financial uncertainties, we may not possess the financial resources necessary to enforce our patents. Patents already issued to us or our pending applications may become subject to dispute, and any dispute could be resolved against us. 21 Because a substantial number of patents have been issued in the field of alternative drug delivery and because patent positions can be highly uncertain and frequently involve complex legal and factual questions, the breadth of claims obtained in any application or the enforceability of our patents cannot be predicted. Consequently, we do not know whether any of our pending or future patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or, to the extent patents have been issued or will be issued, whether these patents will be subject to further proceedings limiting their scope, will provide significant proprietary protection or competitive advantage, or will be circumvented or invalidated. Also because of these legal and factual uncertainties, and because pending patent applications are held in secrecy for varying periods in the United States and other countries, even after reasonable investigation we may not know with certainty whether any products that we (or a licensee) may develop will infringe upon any patent or other intellectual property right of a third party. For example, we are aware of certain patents owned by third parties that such parties could attempt to use in the future in efforts to affect our freedom to practice some of the patents that we own or have applied for. Based upon the science and scope of these third-party patents, we believe that the patents that we own or have applied for do not infringe any such third-party patents; however, we cannot know for certain whether we could successfully defend our position, if challenged. We may incur substantial costs if we are required to defend our intellectual property in patent suits brought by third parties. These legal actions could seek damages and seek to enjoin testing, manufacturing and marketing of the accused product or process. In addition to potential liability for significant damages, we could be required to obtain a license to continue to manufacture or market the accused product or process. Risks Related to Marketing of Our Potential Products We may not become, or stay, profitable even if our pharmaceutical products are approved for sale. Even if we obtain regulatory approval to market our oral insulin product outside of Ecuador, India, Lebanon and Algeria or to market any other prescription pharmaceutical product candidate, many factors may prevent the product from ever being sold in commercial quantities. Some of these factors are beyond our control, such as: · acceptance of the formulation or treatment by health care professionals and diabetic patients; · the availability, effectiveness and relative cost of alternative diabetes or immunomedicine treatments that may be developed by competitors; and · the availability of third-party (i.e. insurer and governmental agency) reimbursements. We will not receive significant revenues from Generex Oral-lyn™ or any of our other pharmaceuticals products that may receive regulatory approval until we can successfully manufacture, market and distribute them in the relevant markets. Similarly, the successful commercialization of our over-the-counter glucose spray products may be hindered by manufacturing, marketing and distribution limitations. We have to depend upon others for marketing and distribution of our products, and we may be forced to enter into contracts limiting the benefits we may receive and the control we have over our products. We intend to rely on collaborative arrangements with one or more other companies that possess strong marketing and distribution resources to perform these functions for us. We may not be able to enter into beneficial contracts, and we may be forced to enter into contracts for the marketing and distribution of our products that substantially limit the potential benefits to us from commercializing these products. In addition, we will not have the same control over marketing and distribution that we would have if we conducted these functions ourselves. We may not be able to compete with treatments now being marketed and developed, or which may be developed and marketed in the future by other companies. Our products will compete with existing and new therapies and treatments. We are aware of a number of companies currently seeking to develop alternative means of delivering insulin, as well as new drugs intended to replace insulin therapy at least in part. We are also aware of a number of companies currently seeking to develop alternative means of enhancing and suppressing peptides. In the longer term, we also face competition from companies that seek to develop cures for diabetes and other malignant, infectious, autoimmune and allergic diseases through techniques for correcting the genetic deficiencies that underlie such diseases. Numerous pharmaceutical, biotechnology and drug delivery companies, hospitals, research organizations, individual scientists and nonprofit organizations are engaged in the development of alternatives to our technologies. Some of these companies have greater research and development capabilities, experience, manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we do. Collaborations or mergers between large pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with competing drug delivery technologies could enhance our competitors’ financial, marketing and other resources. Developments by other drug delivery companies could make our products or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies, obtaining FDA approval for products or gaining market acceptance more rapidly than we can. 22 Some of our most significant competitors, Pfizer, Eli Lilly, and Novo Nordisk, have announced that they will discontinue development and/or sale of their inhalable forms of insulin. Unlike inhaled insulin formulations, Generex Oral-lyn™ is a buccally absorbed formulation with no residual pulmonary deposition. We believe that our buccal delivery technology offers several advantages over inhaled insulin, including the avoidance of pulmonary inhalation, which requires frequent physician monitoring, ease of use and portability. If government programs and insurance companies do not agree to pay for or reimburse patients for our pharmaceutical products, our success will be impacted. Sales of our oral insulin formulation in Ecuador, Lebanon, Algeria and India and our other potential pharmaceutical products in other markets will depend in part on the availability of reimbursement by third-party payers such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Third-party payers often challenge the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. Governmental approval of health care products does not guarantee that these third-party payers will pay for the products. Even if third-party payers do accept our product, the amounts they pay may not be adequate to enable us to realize a profit. Legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before our products are approved for marketing and any such changes could further limit reimbursement. Risks Related to Potential Liabilities We face significant product liability risks, which may have a negative effect on our financial condition. The administration of drugs or treatments to humans, whether in clinical trials or commercially, can result in product liability claims whether or not the drugs or treatments are actually at fault for causing an injury. Furthermore, our pharmaceutical products may cause, or may appear to have caused, serious adverse side effects (including death) or potentially dangerous drug interactions that we may not learn about or understand fully until the drug or treatment has been administered to patients for some time. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and may result in large judgments or settlements against us, which could have a severe negative effect on our financial condition. We maintain product liability insurance in amounts we believe to be commercially reasonable for our current level of activity and exposure, but claims could exceed our coverage limits. Furthermore, due to factors in the insurance market generally and our own experience, we may not always be able to purchase sufficient insurance at an affordable price. Even if a product liability claim is not successful, the adverse publicity and time and expense of defending such a claim may interfere with our business. Risks Related to the Market for Our Common Stock Our common stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market if we do not succeed in the appeal of the NASDAQ Staff’s May 6, 2010 delisting determination. On July 23, 2008, we received notice from The NASDAQ Stock Market that we were not compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4) (now known as Listing Rule 5550(a)(2)), which requires us to have a minimum bid price per share of at least $1.00 for thirty (30) consecutive business days. In accordance with this Rule, we had 180 calendar days, or until January 20, 2009, subject to extension, to regain compliance with this Rule. Our initial compliance period of 180 calendar days ending on January 20, 2009 was subsequently extended until November 9, 2009 due to NASDAQ’s temporary suspension of the minimum bid price requirement from October 16, 2008 until August 3, 2009. On November 9, 2009, we received a letter from NASDAQ indicating that we had not regained compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price required for continued listing under Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) within the grace period previously allowed by NASDAQ following the initial notice of noncompliance on July 23, 2008. Pursuant to Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), NASDAQ gave us an additional 180 calendar day compliance period because we met all other initial inclusion criteria (other than the minimum bid price requirement) as of January 6, 2009. Therefore, we had until May 5, 2010, to regain compliance with the rule. To regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement, the closing bid price of our common stock had to close at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. On May 5, 2010, our stock closed at $0.3999. On May 6, 2010, we received a delisting determination letter from the staff of The NASDAQ Stock Market due to our failure to regain compliance with The NASDAQ Capital Market's minimum bid price requirement for continued listing. We appealed the NASDAQ Staff's determination to the NASDAQ Hearings Panel. The appeal will stay the suspension of our securities and the filing of a Form 25-NSE with the SEC. The filing of a Form 25-NSE would remove our stock from listing and registration on The NASDAQ Stock Market. The hearing before the NASDAQ Hearings Panel occurred on June 10, 2010. On July 9, 2010, the NASDAQ Hearings Panel granted our request to remain listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market, subject to certain conditions. One of these conditions included us informing the Panel on or about July 28, 2010 that we had obtained shareholder approval to implement a reverse stock split in a ratio sufficient to meet the $1.00 bid price requirement for continued listing set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). 23 On July 28, 2010, we held our Annual Meeting in Toronto, Ontario Canada. One of the proposals that was voted on by our stockholders at the Annual Meeting was whether or not to approve a proposed Amendment to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation to, among other things, effect a reverse stock split in a ratio of not less than 1-for-3 and not more than 1-for-10 at any time prior to July 27, 2011 (the ratio and timing of which will be subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors) and, following the reverse stock split, to maintain the authorized shares of common stock at 750,000,000. At the Annual Meeting, the reverse stock split proposal was not approved because it fell short of the required threshold of at least 50% of the total shares outstanding voting in favor even though 60.62% of the voting stockholders voted in favor of the reverse stock split proposal. We reported the results of the Annual Meeting to the NASDAQ Hearings Panel, and requested additional time to hold the special meeting dedicated to approving the reverse stock split. Following the Annual Meeting, we called a Special Meeting for September 17, 2010 for the stockholders to consider a proposal to approve an amendment to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation (i) to effect a reverse stock split of the common stock, at an exchange ratio of not less than 1-for-2 and not more than 1-for-10 at any time prior to September 16, 2011 (the implementation of the reverse stock split, ratio and timing of which will be subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors), and (ii) following the reverse stock split, if implemented, to reduce the number of authorized shares of common stock from 750,000,000 to 500,000,000 unless the Board of Directors utilizes a ratio of not more than 1-for-2, in which case, the number of authorized shares of common stock will be maintained at 750,000,000. On September 14, 2010, the NASDAQ Hearings Panel granted our further request for continued listing, subject to certain conditions. These conditions include informing the Panel on or about October 15, 2010 that we have obtained shareholder approval to implement a reverse stock split in a ratio sufficient to meet the $1.00 bid price and demonstrating on or before November 2, 2010 a closing bid price of $1.00 or more for a minimum of ten prior consecutive trading days. During the granted exception period, we must promptly notify the Panel of any significant developments, particularly any event, condition or circumstance that may impact our ability to maintain compliance with any NASDAQ listing requirement or the exception deadline. The Panel reserves the right to reconsider the granted exception in such an instance. In light of the NASDAQ Hearings Panel’s grant of our request for continued listing, we sought the stockholders’ approval to adjourn the Special Meeting on September 17th to a later date to allow us to solicit additional proxies for the reverse stock split proposal described above. The adjournment proposal was approved by more than a majority of shares of Generex common stock present, in person or represented by proxy, at the Special Meeting and entitled to vote on the adjournment proposal. As a result of the approval of the adjournment proposal by our stockholders, the Special Meeting has been adjourned until Friday, October 15, 2010, at 10:00 a.m. (local time), at the Meeting Rooms, Westin Harbour Castle Hotel, 1 Harbour Square, Toronto, Ontario Canada M5J 1A6. The record date for the Special Meeting remains August 17, 2010. We caution stockholders that there can be no assurance that the adjournment of the special meeting will result in Generex obtaining a sufficient number of votes in favor of the above-mentioned reverse stock split proposal. Nor can there be any assurance that the reverse stock split, if implemented, will have the desired effect of sufficiently raising the common stock price to meet The NASDAQ Capital Market's $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for continued listing. If we are not successful in these endeavors, our stock will be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market and likely trade on NASDAQ’s over-the-counter bulletin board, assuming we meet the requisite criteria. The price of our common stock may be volatile. There may be wide fluctuations in the price of our common stock. These fluctuations may be caused by several factors including: · announcements of research activities and technology innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · changes in market valuation of companies in our industry generally; · variations in operating results; · changes in governmental regulations; · developments in patent and other proprietary rights; · public concern as to the safety of drugs or treatments developed by us or others; 24 · results of clinical trials of our products or our competitors' products; and · regulatory action or inaction on our products or our competitors' products. From time to time, we may hire companies to assist us in pursuing investor relations strategies to generate increased volumes of investment in our common stock. Such activities may result, among other things, in causing the price of our common stock to increase on a short-term basis. Furthermore, the stock market generally and the market for stocks of companies with lower market capitalizations and small biopharmaceutical companies, like us, have from time to time experienced, and likely will again experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. During the third calendar quarter of 2008 and continuing to date, we, like many other publicly traded companies, have experienced a sharp decline in the price of our stock attributable to concerns about the current global recession. Provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation could delay or prevent the acquisition or sale of our business. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation permits our Board of Directors to designate new series of preferred stock and issue those shares without any vote or action by our stockholders. Such newly authorized and issued shares of preferred stock could contain terms that grant special voting rights to the holders of such shares that make it more difficult to obtain stockholder approval for an acquisition of our business or increase the cost of any such acquisition. Our recent equity financing will dilute current stockholders and could prevent the acquisition or sale of our business. The equity financing transactions into which we have recently entered have and will dilute current stockholders. Currently approximately 35,609,513 shares of common stock are issuable upon exercise of the warrants that we issued in a private placement in March 2008, in registered direct offerings in June, August and September 2009 and in connection with sales to Seaside in April, May and June 2010 (without regard to additional shares which may become issuable due to anti-dilution adjustments or in connection with payments of interest), which represents approximately 13% of the shares of common stock currently outstanding. Assuming the holders of the warrants convert and exercise all of the warrants into shares of common stock, the number of shares of issued and outstanding common stock will increase significantly, and current stockholders will own a smaller percentage of the outstanding common stock of Generex. The issuance of shares of common stock pursuant to the warrants will also have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and may adversely affect the market price of the common stock. In addition, the issuance of shares of common stock upon exercise of the warrants sold in connection with the offerings in June, August and September 2009 and the sales to Seaside in April, May and June 2010 and sold or re-priced in our March 2008 private placement could have an anti-takeover effect because such issuance will make it more difficult for, or discourage an attempt by, a party to obtain control of Generex by tender offer or other means. The issuance of common stock upon the exercise of the warrants will increase the number of shares entitled to vote, increase the number of votes required to approve a change of control of Generex, and dilute the interest of a party attempting to obtain control of Generex. If we raise funds through one or more additional equity financings in the future, it will have a further dilutive effect on existing holders of our shares by reducing their percentage ownership. The shares may be sold at a time when the market price is low because we need the funds. This will dilute existing holders more than if our stock price was higher. In addition, equity financings normally involve shares sold at a discount to the current market price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. In April 2010, we received comments from the Staff of the SEC on our fiscal year 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We responded to the Staff’s comments on May 7, 2010. On June 11, 2010, we received a response from the Staff asking for further information relating to, among other things, the equity classification of certain warrants including a price protection feature and our use of the Black-Scholes valuation model for these warrants. On June 24, 2010, we responded to the Staff’s further comments. On June 11, 2010, we also filed a Current Report on Form 8-K to announce that the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors had concluded that Generex’s unaudited consolidated financial statements included in its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended October 31, 2009 and January 31, 2010 should no longer be relied upon because we did not properly disclose the derivative effect of the warrants with the price protection feature under ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging. On that date, we also filed an amendment to the Form 10-Q for each of the interim periods ended October 31, 2009 and January 31, 2010 to make the necessary changes related to our treatment of the warrants. On August 10, 2010, we received further comments from the Staff relating to, among other items, the use of an alternative valuation model for the warrants with a price protection feature, the accounting for the cumulative-effect adjustment upon the adoption of ASC 815 and certain disclosures relating to the price protection feature of the warrants. We responded the Staff’s comments on September 7, 2010 and September 17, 2010. As noted in Note 13 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report, we have adopted the binomial lattice valuation model for the purposes of valuing the warrants which contain the price protection feature on a prospective basis and have disclosed the reclassification entry of the warrant valuations related to the opening cumulative deficit within Stockholders’ Equity (and the impact to Stockholders’ Equity for each of the previously reported interim periods) in accordance with the transitional accounting guidance found in ASC 815-10-65-3d through 65-3f. 25 As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have not formally resolved the comments set forth in the Staff’s August 10, 2010 letter. Consequently, we are treating the Staff’s comments described above as unresolved for the purposes of this Item 1B. Item 