ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the specific risk factors described below together with all other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this report, as these risks, among others, are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our historical results. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties applicable to our business. The weak economy and turmoil in the credit markets and the financial services industry may reduce demand for our services, lower our earnings and harm our operations. Recently, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States government. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, they may have a material adverse effect on us and our costs of borrowing. These events could also adversely impact the availability of financing to our clients and therefore our ability to collect amounts due from them, or cause such clients to terminate their contracts with us completely. Adverse economic and demographic trends could materially adversely affect our business. The U.S. Department of Labor has reported that since December 2007, the number of unemployed persons has increased by 7.3 million to 14.8 million, and the unemployment rate has doubled to 9.7% as of February 2010. High domestic unemployment, coupled with the recent recession and weak economy, have contributed to reduced discretionary spending by consumers and slowed or reduced economic activity by businesses in the United States and most major global economies compared to 2007 levels. Our business operations are located in North America and tend to be concentrated in large urban areas. Many of our customers are workers who commute by car to their places of employment in these urban centers. Our business could be materially adversely affected to the extent that weak economic conditions or demographic factors have resulted in the elimination of jobs and rising unemployment in these large urban areas. In addition, increased unemployment levels, the 15 Table of Contents movement of white-collar jobs from urban centers to suburbs or out of North America entirely, increased office vacancies in urban areas, movement toward home office alternatives, or lower consumer spending could reduce consumer demand for our services. Weak economic conditions could also lead to a decline in parking at airports and commercial facilities, including facilities owned by retail operators and hotels. In particular, reductions in parking at leased facilities can lower our profit because a decrease in revenue would be exacerbated by fixed costs that we must pay under our leases. As of December 31, 2009, we operated 10% of our locations under leases, and for the year ended December 31, 2009, we derived 12% of our gross profit under leases. If adverse economic conditions reduce discretionary spending, business travel or other economic activity that fuels demand for our services, our earnings could be reduced. Adverse changes in local and national economic conditions could also depress prices for our services or cause our clients to cancel their agreements to purchase our services. The financial difficulties or bankruptcy of one or more of our major clients could adversely affect our results. Future revenue and our ability to collect accounts receivable depend, in part, on the financial strength of our clients. We estimate an allowance for accounts we do not consider collectible, and this allowance adversely impacts profitability. In the event that our clients experience financial difficulty, become unable to obtain financing or seek bankruptcy protection, including as a result of the recent turmoil in the credit markets, our profitability would be further impacted by our failure to collect accounts receivable in excess of the estimated allowance. Additionally, our future revenue would be reduced by the loss of these clients or by the cancellation of leases or management contracts by clients in bankruptcy. The weak economy could negatively impact results and our ability to give accurate guidance. From time-to-time we may publicly provide earnings or other forms of guidance, which reflect our predictions about future revenue, operating costs and capital structure, among other factors. These predictions may be significantly impacted by estimates, as well as other factors that are beyond our control, and may not turn out to be correct due to the unknown consequences of a weak economy and a prolonged recovery. Actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our working capital and liquidity may be adversely affected if a significant number of our clients require us to deposit all parking revenue into their respective accounts. We frequently contract with clients to hold parking revenue in our account and remit the revenue, minus the operating expenses and our fee, to our clients at the end of the month. Some clients, however, require us to deposit parking revenue in their accounts on a daily basis. This type of arrangement requires us to pay costs as they are incurred and receive reimbursement and our management fee after the end of the month. There can be no assurance that a significant number of clients will not switch to the practice of requiring us to deposit all parking revenue into their respective accounts, which would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Our management contracts and leases expose us to certain risks. The loss or renewal on less favorable terms of a substantial number of management contracts or leases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because certain management contracts and leases are with state, local and quasi-governmental entities, changes to certain governmental entities’ approaches to contracting regarding parking facilities could affect such contracts. A material reduction in the operating income associated with the integrated services we provide under management contracts and leases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that management contracts and leases are cancelable without cause, most of these contracts would also be cancelable in the event of our clients’ bankruptcy, despite the automatic stay provisions under bankruptcy law. In addition, we are particularly exposed to increases in costs for locations that we operate under leases because we are generally responsible for all the operating expenses of our leased locations. An increase in cost of parking services could reduce our gross profit derived from locations that we operate under leases. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We cannot assure you that cash flow from operations, combined with additional borrowings under the senior credit facility and any future credit facility will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay our indebtedness, or to fund other liquidity needs. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, which could 16 Table of Contents cause the related risks to intensify. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before their respective maturities. Recently, the credit markets and the financial services industry experienced a period of unprecedented turmoil characterized by the failure or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States government. These events could have a material adverse effect on us and our costs of borrowings. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our senior credit facility, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to refinance our debt, we may default under the terms of our indebtedness, which could lead to an acceleration of the debt. We do not expect that we could repay all of our outstanding indebtedness if the repayment of such indebtedness was accelerated. We may be unable to renew our insurance coverage and we do not maintain insurance coverage for all possible risks. Our liability and worker’s compensation insurance coverage expires on an annual basis. There can be no assurance that our insurance carriers will in fact be willing to renew our coverage at any rate at the expiration date. We maintain a comprehensive portfolio of insurance policies to help protect us against loss or damage incurred from a wide variety of insurable risks. Each year, we review with our professional insurance advisers whether the insurance policies and associated coverages that we maintain are sufficient to adequately protect us from the various types of risk to which we are exposed in the ordinary course of business. That analysis takes into account various pertinent factors such as the likelihood that we would incur a material loss from any given risk as well as the cost of obtaining insurance coverage against any such risk. While we believe that we maintain a comprehensive portfolio of insurance that is consistent with customary business practices and adequately protects us from the risks that we typically face in the ordinary course of our business, there can be no assurance that we may not sustain a material loss for which we do not maintain any, or adequate insurance coverage. Our business would be harmed if fewer clients obtain liability insurance coverage through us. Many of our clients have historically chosen to obtain liability insurance coverage for the locations we manage by being named as additional insureds under our master insurance policies. Clients do, however, have the option of purchasing such insurance independently, as long as we are named as an additional insured pursuant to an additional insured endorsement. We purchase insurance policies at prices that we believe represent a discount to the prices that would typically be charged to parking facility owners on a stand-alone basis. Pursuant to our management contracts, we allocate a portion of our risk management costs, at rates we believe are competitive, to those clients who choose to obtain their insurance coverage by being named as additional insureds under our insurance policies. A material reduction in the number of clients who choose to obtain their insurance coverage from us in that manner, or a reduction in amounts payable to us for such coverage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional funds would need to be reserved for future insurance losses if such losses are worse than expected. We provide liability and worker’s compensation insurance coverage consistent with our obligations to our clients under our various management contracts and leases. We are obligated to reimburse our insurance carrier for each loss incurred in the current policy year up to the amount of a deductible specified in our insurance policies. The deductible for our various liability and workers’ compensation policies is $250,000. We also purchase property insurance that provides coverage for loss or damage to our property, and in some cases our clients’ property, as well as business interruption coverage for lost operating income and certain associated expenses. The deductible applicable to any given loss under our property insurance policy varies based upon the insured values and the peril that causes the loss. Our financial statements reflect our funding of all such obligations based upon guidance and evaluation we have received from third-party insurance professionals. There can be no assurance, however, that the ultimate amount of our obligations will not exceed the amount presently funded or accrued, in which case we would need to set aside additional funds to reserve for any such excess. Changes in insurance reserves as a result of periodic evaluations of the liabilities can cause swings in our operating results that may not be indicative of the operations of our ongoing business. Additionally, our obligations could increase if we receive a greater number of insurance claims or if the severity of, or the administrative costs associated with, those claims generally increases. A material increase in insurance costs due to a change in the number or severity of claims, claims costs or premiums paid by us could have a material adverse effect on our operating income. Adverse litigation judgments or settlements resulting from legal proceedings in which we may be involved in the normal course of our business could affect our operations and financial condition. In the normal course of business, we are from time to time involved in various legal proceedings. We do not believe that any pending claim, proceeding or litigation, either alone or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our financial position; however, the outcome of these legal proceedings cannot be predicted. It is possible that an unfavorable outcome of some or all of the matters, including claims related to the recent changes in our Board of Directors, could cause us to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. Any 17 Table of Contents significant adverse litigation judgments or settlements could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because our business is affected by seasonal trends, typically in the first quarter of each year, our results can fluctuate from period to period, which could make it difficult to evaluate our business or cause instability in the market price of our common stock. We periodically have experienced fluctuations in our quarterly results arising from a number of factors, including the following: • reduced levels of travel during the first quarter of each year, which is reflected in lower revenue from airport and hotel parking; and • increases in certain costs of parking services, such as snow removal. These factors can reduce our gross profit in the first quarter. As a result, our revenue and earnings in the second, third and fourth quarters tend to be higher than revenue and earnings in the first quarter. Accordingly, you should not consider our first quarter results as indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any full fiscal year. Fluctuations in our results could make it difficult to evaluate our business or cause instability in the market price of our common stock. We operate in a very competitive business environment. Competition in the field of parking facility management is intense. The market is fragmented and is served by a variety of entities ranging from single lot operators to large regional and national multi-facility operators, as well as municipal and other governmental entities that choose not to outsource their parking operations. Competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Many of our competitors also have long-standing relationships with our clients. Providers of parking facility management services have traditionally competed on the basis of cost and service. As we have worked to establish ourselves as one of the principal members of the industry, we compete predominately on the basis of high levels of service and strong relationships. We may not be able to, or may choose not to, compete with certain competitors on the basis of price. As a result, a greater proportion of our clients may switch to other service providers or self-manage during an economic downturn. Our ability to expand our business will be dependent upon the availability of adequate capital and economic conditions. The rate of our expansion will depend in part upon the availability of adequate capital, which in turn will depend in large part upon cash flow generated by our business and the availability of equity and debt capital. The weak economy and restrictive lending practices may make it more difficult to grow our number of profitable locations and our ability to obtain equity or debt capital on acceptable terms. However, we will require the consent of stockholders holding a majority of shares in order to authorize and issue additional shares of common stock above the current number of shares of authorized capital stock, which may be required in connection with any future acquisitions. In addition, our senior credit facility contains provisions that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and/or make substantial investments or acquisitions. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to finance our current growth strategy. We must comply with public and private regulations that may impose significant costs on us. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. These laws typically impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. In connection with the operation of parking facilities, we may be potentially liable for such costs. In addition, from time to time we are involved in environmental issues at certain of locations or in connection with our operations. While it is difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of any of these matters, based on information currently available, our management believes that none of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The cost of defending against claims of liability, or remediation of a contaminated property, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, several state and local laws have been passed in recent years that encourage car pooling and the use of mass transit. Laws and regulations that reduce the number of cars and vehicles being driven could adversely impact our business. In connection with certain transportation services provided to our clients, including shuttle bus operations, we provide the vehicles and the drivers to operate these transportation services. The U.S. Department of Transportation and various state agencies exercise broad powers over these transportation services, including, licensing and authorizations, safety and insurance requirements. Our employee drivers must also comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the Department 18 Table of Contents Transportation, including those related to drug and alcohol testing and service hours. We may become subject to new and more restrictive federal and state regulations. Compliance with such regulations could hamper our ability to provide qualified drivers and increase our operating costs. We are also subject to consumer credit laws and credit card industry rules and regulations relating to the processing of credit card transactions, including the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act and the Payment Card Data Security Standard. This law and these industry standards impose substantial financial penalties for non-compliance. In addition, we are subject to laws generally applicable to businesses, including but not limited to federal, state and local regulations relating to wage and hour matters, employee classification, mandatory healthcare benefits, unlawful workplace discrimination and whistle blowing. Any actual or alleged failure to comply with any regulation applicable to our business or any whistle-blowing claim, even if without merit, could result in costly litigation, regulatory action or otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We collect and remit sales/parking taxes and file tax returns for and on behalf of ourselves and our clients. We are affected by laws and regulations that may impose a direct assessment on us for failure to remit sales/parking taxes and filing of tax returns for ourselves and on behalf of our clients. We believe that our public and private client base is becoming more concentrated. Because national property owners, managers and developers and other property management companies tend to own or manage multiple properties, our ability to provide parking services for a large number of properties becomes dependent on our relationships with these entities. As this ownership concentration continues, such clients become more significant to our business. The loss of one of these large clients or the sale of properties they own to clients of our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, large clients with extensive portfolios have greater negotiating power with respect to our management contracts and leases, which could adversely affect our profit margins. In order to raise additional revenue, a number of state and municipal governments have either sold or entered into long-term leases of public assets or may be contemplating such transactions. The assets that are the subject of such transactions have included government-owned parking garages located in downtown commercial districts and parking operations at airports. The sale or long-term leasing of such government-owned parking assets to our competitors or clients of our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions or new contracts could have a negative impact on our business. We may pursue both small and large acquisitions in our business or in new lines of business on a selective basis, and we may be in discussions or negotiations with one or more of these acquisitions or new contract candidates simultaneously. There can be no assurance that suitable acquisitions or new contract candidates will be identified, that such acquisitions or new contracts will be consummated, that the acquired operations or new contracts will be integrated successfully or that we will be able to derive all of the expected synergies of acquired operations or contracts. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including (but not limited to) the following: • Difficulties in integrating the operations, systems, technologies and personnel of the acquired companies, particularly companies with large and widespread operations. • Diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from acquisitions. • Difficulties in entering markets or businesses in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and in which competitors have stronger market positions. • Insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions. • The potential loss of key employees, customers and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of acquisition plans and their actual consummation. Acquisitions may also cause us to: • Use a substantial portion of our cash resources or incur a substantial amount of debt. • Temporarily increase costs, including general and administrative cost, required to integrate acquisitions or large contract portfolios. 19 Table of Contents • Significantly increase our non-cash amortization expense. • Significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition. • Assume liabilities. • Issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership. • Record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges. The actual costs or benefits of our acquisitions could differ from the expected costs or benefits, and any such differences could materially adversely affect our business. Mergers and acquisitions of companies are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The sureties for our performance bond program may elect not to provide us with new or renewal performance bonds for any reason. As is customary in the industry, a surety provider can refuse to provide a bond principal with new or renewal surety bonds. If any existing or future surety provider refuses to provide us with surety bonds, there can be no assurance that we would be able to find alternate providers on acceptable terms, or at all. Our inability to provide surety bonds could also result in the loss of existing contracts. Failure to find a provider of surety bonds, and our resulting inability to bid for new contracts or renew existing contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our business may be harmed as a result of extraordinary natural disasters. In 2005 Hurricane Katrina caused significant disruption to our operations in New Orleans and the U.S. Gulf Coast region, which adversely impacted our operating results for this region. To the extent that we experience similar weather related events in the U.S. Gulf Coast Region or in other geographical areas where we operate, or experience other extraordinary natural events, such as earthquakes, our operating results may be adversely impacted. Our business may be harmed as a result of terrorist attacks and the related increase in government regulation of airports and reduced air travel. Any terrorist attacks, particularly in the United States or Canada, may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Attacks have resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased government regulation of airlines and airport facilities, including imposition of minimum distances between parking facilities and terminals, resulting in the elimination of currently managed parking facilities, and increased security checks of employees and passengers at airport facilities. We derive a significant percentage of our gross profit from parking facilities and parking related services in and around airports. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 23% of gross profit was derived from those operations. The Federal Aviation Administration generally prohibits parking within 300 feet of airport terminals during periods of heightened security. While the prohibition is not currently in effect, there can be no assurance that this governmental prohibition will not again be reinstated. The existing regulations governing parking within 300 feet of airport terminals or future regulations may prevent us from using certain parking spaces. Reductions in the number of parking spaces and air travelers may reduce our revenue and cash flow for both our leased facilities and those facilities we operate under management contracts. The operation of our business is dependent upon key personnel. Our success is, and will continue to be, substantially dependent upon the continued services of our executive management team. The loss of the services of one or more of the members of our executive management team could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we have entered into employment agreements with, and historically have been successful in retaining the services of, our executive management, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain them in the future. In addition, our continued growth depends upon our ability to attract and retain skilled operating managers and employees. Many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 28% of our employees are represented by labor unions. Approximately 22% of our collective bargaining contracts, representing approximately 3.7% of our employees, are up for renewal in 2010. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew existing labor union contracts on acceptable terms. Employees could exercise their rights under the labor 20 Table of Contents union contract, which could include a strike or walk-out. In such cases, there are no assurances that we would be able to staff sufficient employees for our short-term needs. Any such labor strike or our inability to negotiate a satisfactory contract upon expiration of the current agreements could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We make contributions to multiemployer benefit plans on behalf of certain employees covered by collective bargaining agreements and could be responsible for paying unfunded liabilities incurred by such benefit plans, which amount could be material. John V. Holten, our past chairman and former majority stockholder, may dispute our decision to terminate his employment with us, which could result in legal or other proceedings that could affect our operations and financial condition or divert the attention of our management or our board of directors from our business. On October 5, 2009, we terminated Mr. Holten’s employment as chairman of our board of directors and we determined not to make any further payments or provide any further benefits to Mr. Holten. We took this action because we believed that, under applicable law, the terms of the agreement and the process by which Mr. Holten caused the agreement to be executed and extended on our behalf were unfair to us and that the agreement was not in the best interests of our stockholders. Mr. Holten has advised us that he disputes the termination of his employment agreement and our determination that he is not entitled to any further payments or benefits under the agreement, and that he may assert a claim or claims against us relating to the termination of the agreement. We believe we have valid defenses to any claim by Mr. Holten, but we are unable to state whether the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome of any dispute is probable or remote. We are also unable to provide an estimate of the range or amount of potential loss if the outcome of any dispute or the settlement of any dispute is unfavorable to us. However, an unfavorable outcome or the settlement of any dispute related to the termination of Mr. Holten’s employment agreement with us could affect our operations and financial condition or divert the attention of our management or our board of directors from our business. We intend to contest vigorously any claim by Mr. Holten. Mr. Holten currently remains a member of our board of directors. Provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, and third amended and restated by-laws and in Delaware corporate law may prevent or discourage an acquisition of our company that would benefit our stockholders. Provisions in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, and third amended and restated by-laws and in Delaware corporate law may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our management and board of directors. For example, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, and third amended and restated by-laws provide for the inability of stockholders to call special meetings, to increase the size of the board of directors, requires stockholders to give advance notice for director nominations and authorizes the issuance of common stock without stockholder approval. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions, including the application of Section 203 of the DGCL, which generally restricts our ability to engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of our capital stock. Our board of directors could rely on provisions in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, and third amended and restated by-laws and in Delaware law to delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and, in particular, unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable and through which some or all of our stockholders may obtain a premium for their shares. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade their evaluations of our stock or estimates of our earnings, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research, reports, expectations or other evaluations that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts covering us downgrade their estimates or evaluations of our stock or our earnings, or if we fail to meet such expectations, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. The market price of our common stock may be particularly volatile, and our stockholders may be unable to resell their shares at a profit. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate or decline. In the 52 weeks prior to the date of this report, the closing prices of our common stock have ranged from a low of $13.90 to a high of $20.31. The price of our common stock that will prevail in the market may be higher or lower than the price you pay, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating 21 Table of Contents performance. These fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include the following: • the weak economy and turmoil in the credit markets and financial services industry, including their impact on our results and our ability to give accurate guidance; • changes in general economic and business conditions or demographic trends; • the financial difficulties or bankruptcy of our major clients, including the impact on our ability to collect receivables; • availability, terms and deployment of capital; • the loss, or renewal on less favorable terms, of management contracts and leases; • our ability to renew our insurance policies on acceptable terms, the extent to which our clients choose to obtain insurance coverage through us and our ability to successfully manage self-insured losses; • adverse litigation judgments or settlements from legal or other proceedings in which we may be involved; and • seasonal trends, particularly in the first quarter of each year; • the impact of public and private regulations; • our ability to form and maintain relationships with large real estate owners, managers and developers; • integration of future acquisitions in light of challenges in retaining key employees, synchronizing business processes, efficiently integrating facilities, marketing and operations, deriving the expected acquisition synergies or budgeting the actual costs or benefits of acquistions; • the ability to obtain performance bonds on acceptable terms to guarantee our performance under certain contracts; • extraordinary events affecting parking at facilities that we manage, including emergency safety measures, military or terrorist attacks and natural disasters; • changes in federal and state regulations including those affecting airports, parking lots at airports or automobile use; • the loss of key employees; and • development of new, competitive parking-related services. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. If our stock price is volatile, we may become the target of securities litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources from our business. 22 Table of Contents 