Item 1A. Risk Factors. The financial statements contained in this report and the related discussions describe and analyze our financial performance and condition for the periods indicated. For the most part, this information is historical. Our prior results are not necessarily indicative of our future performance or financial condition. We, therefore, have included in this report a discussion of certain factors which could affect our future performance or financial condition. These factors could cause our future performance or financial condition to differ materially from our prior performance or financial condition or from our expectations or estimates of our future performance or financial condition. Dependence on New Product Introductions; Uncertain Consumer Acceptance Our ultimate success depends, in large part, on our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products widely accepted in the marketplace. Historically, a large portion of new golf club technologies and product designs have been met with consumer rejection. Certain products we previously introduced have not met the level of consumer acceptance anticipated by management. No assurance can be given that our current or future products will be met with consumer acceptance. Failure by us to timely identify and develop innovative new products that achieve widespread market acceptance would adversely affect our continued success and viability. Additionally, successful technologies, designs and product concepts are likely to be copied by competitors. Accordingly, our operating results could fluctuate as a result of the amount, timing, and market acceptance of new product introductions by us or our competitors. If we are unable to develop new products that will ultimately be widely accepted by a wide range of customers, it will have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The design of new golf clubs is also greatly influenced by the rules and interpretations of the USGA. Although the golf equipment standards established by the USGA generally apply only to competitive events sanctioned by the organization, we believe that it is critical for our future success that new clubs we introduce comply with USGA standards. We invest significant resources in the development of new products and efforts to comply with USGA standards may hinder or delay development of the product and adversely effect revenues and customer demand. Additionally, increased costs associated with complying with USGA standards could reduce margins and adversely affect the results of operations. Decreasing Amount of Golf Played by Consumers Our revenues are completely driven from sales of golf related products and the demand for these products is directly related to the number of golfers and rounds of golf being played each year and overall popularity of golf. If golf participation or the number of rounds of golf played decreases, sales of our products may be adversely affected. In addition, if the amount of exposure of our products through media and advertising such as television coverage of events or the popularity of magazines we advertise in were to decrease, our sales could be adversely affected. 11 Increasing Competition The golf club market is highly competitive. We compete with a number of established golf club manufacturers, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we have. Our competitors include Callaway Golf Company, adidas-Salomon AG (Taylor Made - adidas Golf), Nike, Inc. (Nike Golf), Fortune Brands, Inc. (Titleist and Cobra) and Karsten Assembly Company (PING), among others. We compete primarily on the basis of performance, brand name recognition, quality and price. We believe that our ability to market our products through multiple distribution channels, including on- and off- course golf shops and other retailers, is important to the manner in which we compete. The purchasing decisions of many golfers are often the result of highly subjective preferences, which can be influenced by many factors, including, among others, advertising, media, promotions and product endorsements. These preferences may also be subject to rapid and unanticipated changes. We could face substantial competition from existing or new competitors who introduce and successfully promote golf clubs that achieve market acceptance. Such competition could result in significant price erosion or increased promotional expenditures, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and/or financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future sources of competition or that our business, operating results and/or financial condition will not be adversely affected by increased competition in the markets in which we operate. The golf club industry is generally characterized by rapid and widespread imitation of popular technologies, designs and product concepts. Due to the success of the Tight Lies fairway woods, several competitors introduced products similar to the Tight Lies fairway woods. Should our recently introduced product lines achieve widespread market success, it is reasonable to expect that our current and future competitors would move quickly to introduce similar products that would directly compete with the new product lines. We may face competition from manufacturers introducing other new or innovative products or successfully promoting golf clubs that achieve market acceptance. Accordingly, our operating results could fluctuate as a result of the amount, timing and market acceptance of new products introduced by us or our competitors. The failure to successfully compete in the future could result in a material deterioration of customer loyalty and our image, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. Our introduction of new products or our competitor's introductions can be expected to result in closeouts of existing inventories at both the wholesale and retail levels. Such closeouts are likely to result in reduced margins on the sale of older products, as well as reduced sales of new products given the availability of older products at lower prices. As the Idea a3 and a3 OS product line of irons and the Insight drivers and fairway woods were introduced, older product lines such as the Idea a2 and a2 OS Irons, RPM and Redline fairway woods and drivers experienced reductions in price at both wholesale and retail levels. Risks Associated with Intellectual Property Protection Imitation of popular club design is widespread in the golf industry. No assurance can be given that other golf club manufacturers will not be able to successfully sell golf clubs that imitate our products without infringing on our copyrights, patents, trademarks or trade dress. Many of our competitors have obtained patent, trademark, copyright or other protection of intellectual property rights pertaining to golf clubs. No assurance can be given that we will not be adversely affected by the assertion by competitors that our designs infringe on such competitor's intellectual property rights. Litigation in respect to patents or other intellectual property matters, whether with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources, cause delays or other problems in the marketing and sales of our products, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We have had to defend against infringement claims in the past and will likely be subject to such claims in the future. Such claims could result in alteration or withdrawal of our existing products and delayed introduction of new products. Our attempts to maintain the secrecy of our confidential business information, include but are not limited to, engaging in the practice of having prospective vendors and suppliers sign confidentiality agreements when producing components of new technology. No assurance can be given that our confidential business information will be adequately protected in all instances. The unauthorized use of our confidential business information could adversely affect us. 12 Uncertainty Regarding Continuation of Profitability While we generated net income in each of the past five fiscal years, we have not done so consistently prior to that period and experienced significant losses prior to the year ended December 31, 2003. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase or maintain revenues or continue such profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. An inability to continue such improvements in our financial performance could jeopardize our ability to develop, enhance, and market products, retain qualified personnel, and take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Need for Additional Capital No assurances can be given that we will have sufficient cash resources beyond twelve months or to fund our operations over a length of time. It is possible that the only sources of funding are current cash reserves, projected cash flows from operations and up to $15.0 million of borrowings available under our revolving credit facility. Historically, we have funded capital expenditures for operations through cash flow from operations. To the extent our cash requirements or assumptions change, we may have to raise additional capital and/or further curtail our operating expenses, including further operational restructurings. If we need to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of the stockholders of our Company would be reduced, stockholders could experience additional dilution, and/or such equity securities could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our Company's common stock. Nevertheless, given the current market price for our Company's common stock and the state of the capital markets generally, we do not expect that we would be able to raise funds through the issuance of our capital stock in the foreseeable future. We may also find it difficult to secure additional debt financing beyond our current credit facility. There can be no assurance that financing will be available if needed or if available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Accordingly, it is possible that the only sources of funding are current cash reserves, projected cash flows from operations and up to $15.0 million of borrowings available under our revolving credit facility. Dependence on Key Personnel and Endorsements Our success depends to an extent upon the performance of our management team, which includes our Chief Executive Officer and President, Oliver G. (Chip) Brewer, III, who participates in all aspects of our operations, including product development and sales efforts. The loss or unavailability of Mr. Brewer could adversely affect our business and prospects. In addition, Mr. Tim Reed joined the management team in 2000 in the capacity of Vice President of Research and Development. If Mr. Reed is unable to continue to lead his team to develop innovative products, it could also adversely affect our business. With the exception of our Company's Chairman of the Board of Directors, B.H. (Barney) Adams, and Mr. Brewer, none of our Company's officers and employees are bound by employment agreements, and the relations of such officers and employees are, therefore, at will. We established key-men life insurance policies on the lives of Mr. Brewer and Mr. Reed; however, there can be no assurance that the proceeds of these policies could adequately compensate us for the loss of their services. In addition, there is strong competition for qualified personnel in the golf club industry, and the inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate other key personnel could adversely affect our business, operating results and/or financial condition. On the PGA Tour we have entered into endorsement agreements with professionals such as Rory Sabbatini, Aaron Baddeley, Tommy "Two Gloves" Gainey and Brad Elder. On the Champions Tour, we have entered into endorsement agreements with Tom Watson, Bernard Langer, Scott Hoch, Brad Bryant, D.A. Weibring, Allen Doyle, Des Smyth, R.W. Eaks, Dana Quigley, and Jerry Pate. On the LPGA Tour, we have entered into endorsement agreements with Brittney Lincicome, Brittany Lang, and Taylor Leon. All of the above contracts have various dates of expiration through 2010 and require the use of certain of our products. The loss of one or more of these endorsement arrangements could adversely affect our marketing and sales efforts and, accordingly, our business, operating results and/or financial condition. From time to time, we negotiate with and sign endorsement contracts with either existing or new tour players. As is typical in the golf industry, generally the agreements with these professional golfers do not necessarily require that they use our golf clubs at all times during the terms of the respective agreements, including, in certain circumstances, at times when we are required to make payments to them. The failure of certain individuals to use our products on one or more occasions has resulted in negative publicity involving us. No assurance can be given that our business would not be adversely affected in a material way by negative publicity or by the failure of our known professional endorsers to carry and use our products. 13 Effectiveness of our Marketing Strategy We have designed our marketing strategy to include advertising efforts in multiple media avenues such as television airtime on golf related events, product education for the consumer through an internet website, publications including periodicals and brochures, and in store media such as point of purchase displays and product introduction fact sheets. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we spent approximately $5.7 million, $5.6 million and $5.0 million, respectively, on the above listed marketing efforts. There can be no assurances that our marketing strategy will be effective or that increases in the levels of investments in advertising spending will result in material fluctuations in the sales of our products. Source of Supply A significant portion of our inventory purchases are from one supplier in China; we purchased approximately 46% and 62% of our total inventory purchased for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, from this one Chinese supplier. Substantially all of our fairway wood, driver, iron, i-wood, wedge and putter component parts are manufactured in China and Taiwan. We could, in the future, experience shortages of components for reasons including but not limited to the supplier’s production capacity or materials shortages, or periods of increased price pressures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. Sufficient Inventory Levels In addition to extended payment terms to our customers, the nature of the industry also requires that we carry a substantial level of inventory due to the lead times associated with purchasing components overseas coupled with the seasonality of customer demand. Our inventory balances were approximately $28,745,000 and $24,651,000 at December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively. If we were unable to maintain sufficient inventory to meet customer demand on a timely basis or provide have sufficient capacity to assemble the products at our facility, the effect could result in cancellation of customer orders, loss of customers, and damage to our reputation. In addition, carrying a substantial level of inventory has an adverse effect on our financial position and liquidity. Accounts Receivable Customer Terms Due to industry sensitivity to consumer buying trends and available disposable income, we have in the past extended payment terms for specific retail customers. Issuance of these terms (i.e. greater than 30 days or specific dating) is dependent on our relationship with the customer and the customer's payment history typically during off-peak times in the year. These extended terms do have a negative impact on our financial position and liquidity. In addition, the reserves we establish may not be adequate in the event that the customer's financial strength weakens significantly. In addition, the customer base may shrink and thus could adversely affect our net sales along with increased credit risk that could result adversely effect to our financial condition. Seasonality and Quarterly Fluctuations Golf generally is regarded as a warm weather sport, and net sales of golf equipment have been historically strongest for us during the first and second quarters. In addition, net sales of golf clubs are dependent on discretionary consumer spending, which may be affected by general economic conditions. A decrease in consumer spending generally could result in decreased spending on golf equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and/or financial condition. In addition, our future results of operations could be affected by a number of other factors, such as unseasonable weather patterns and natural disasters such as hurricanes, which could interrupt the sales patterns and could generate hardships for customers in the effected area, demand for and market acceptance of our existing and future products; new product introductions by our competitors; competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected selling prices; and the volume of orders that are received and that can be fulfilled in a quarter. Any one or more of these factors could adversely affect us or result in us failing to achieve our expectations as to future sales or operating results. 14 Because most operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, we may be unable to adjust spending sufficiently in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected sales shortfall that could materially adversely affect quarterly results of operations and liquidity. If technological advances by competitors or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development or sales and marketing efforts, our business, operating results and/or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. In addition, the results of any quarter are not indicative of results to be expected for a full fiscal year. As a result of fluctuating operating results or other factors discussed in this report, in certain future quarters our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. In such event, the market price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. Rapid Growth, Increased Demand for Product If we are successful in obtaining rapid market growth for various golf clubs, we may be required to deliver large volumes of quality products to customers on a timely basis which could potentially require us to increase the production facility, increase purchasing of raw materials or finished goods, increase the size of the workforce, expand our quality control capabilities, or incur additional expenses associated with sudden increases in demand. Any combination of one or more of the listed factors could have a materially adverse effect on our operations and financial position. Adequate Product Warranty Reserves We provide a limited one year product warranty on all of our golf clubs. Significant increases in the incidence of such claims may adversely affect our sales and our reputation with consumers. We establish reserves for warranty claims. There can be no assurance that this reserve will be sufficient if we were to experience an unexpectedly high incidence of problems with our products. Unauthorized Distribution and Counterfeit Clubs Some quantities of our products have been found in unapproved outlets or distribution channels, including unapproved retailers conducting business on common internet auction sites. The existence of a "gray market" in our products can undermine the sales of authorized retailers and foreign wholesale distributors who promote and support our products and can injure our image in the minds of our customers and consumers. We do not believe the unauthorized distribution of our products can be totally eliminated. There can be no assurances that unauthorized distribution of our clubs will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or competitive position. In addition, we are occasionally made aware of the existence of counterfeit copies of our golf clubs, particularly in foreign markets. We take action in these situations through local authorities and legal counsel where practical. However, the inability to effectively deter counterfeit efforts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or competitive position. Certain Risks of Conducting Business Abroad Our Company imports a significant portion of our component parts, including heads, shafts, headcovers, and grips from companies in China and Taiwan. In addition, we sell our products to certain distributors located outside the United States. Our international business is currently centered in Canada, Europe, South Africa and Asia, and our management intends to focus our international efforts through agency and distributor relationships. International sales accounted for 17% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006. Our business is subject to the risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign government relations, foreign consumer preferences, import and export control, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments and changes in economic conditions and exchange rates in countries in which we purchase components or sell our products. Recent foreign events, including, without limitation, continuing U.S. military operations and the resulting instability in Iraq, could potentially cause a delay in imports or exports due to heightened security with customs. In addition, by conducting business abroad, we could be adversely affected by the change in foreign exchange rates amongst the countries and the result could adversely affect our financial condition. 15 Risks associated with the Purchase of Assets of Women’s Golf Unlimited In connection with the purchase of the assets (the “WGU Assets”) from Women’s Golf Unlimited, Inc. (“WGU”), we granted WGU a limited license to use certain intellectual property included in the WGU Assets (the “WGU Marks”). The limited license allows WGU to sell certain inventory that it owned at the time the license was granted and to collect WGU’s outstanding accounts receivable. We have little or no control over WGU with respect to the terms of the sale of WGU’s existing inventory, including, without limitation, price, quantity, potential customers, and geographic area of sale. If WGU sells the existing inventory at low prices or takes any other action that would impair the WGU Assets or brand, the WGU Assets and brand that we purchased may lose value in the market. In addition, the loss of value of the WGU assets and brand may hurt our relationship with resellers and distributors that have distributed in the past or would distribute in the future products under the Women’s Golf Unlimited brand. We can provide no assurances that we will be able to maintain the WGU Assets or the Women’s Golf Unlimited brand. Although we did not assume any liabilities when we purchased the assets of WGU, we will continue to sell products under the WGU brand and therefore may be subject to claims for damages, liabilities or other obligations from the past operations of WGU. Even if we are successful in our defense against such claims, we may incur defense costs and spend management time and resources in defending against such claims. Reliance on Third Parties for Delivery We use United Parcel Services (UPS) for substantially all outbound shipments of our products in the United States. We use other freight lines and larger air carriers for large domestic shipments and international shipments. In addition, many of the components we use to build our products are shipped via air and ocean carriers from overseas. If there were a significant interruption in services from one or more of these providers, we might be unable to engage alternative suppliers to deliver our products or timely provide the necessary components for production in a cost efficient manner. This interruption could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Risks of Adequate Insurance Coverage We procure various insurance policies to cover different aspects of our business, including but not limited to, property, commercial liability, workers compensation, business interruption, foreign liabilities, auto, crime, employment practices and directors' and officers' Insurance. Although we obtain various insurance policies, unforeseen situations or events may arise that could limit the amount or types of insurance coverage. Currently, we have potential exposure in our directors' and officers' insurance policy covering the time period of the class action lawsuit, where our third layer of coverage for the $5 million layer between $15 million and $20 million is currently being denied by Zurich, as they claim that we did not notify them timely in the class action lawsuit. On August 7, 2007, TIG Insurance Co ("TIG"), which provided insurance coverage totaling $7.5 million for the layer of exposure between $7.5 million and $15 million, informed us that it was reserving its rights to deny coverage, based on, among other things, certain exclusions in the policy and recent legal authority holding that damages and settlements arising out of Section 11 claims are uninsured loss. Additionally, our directors' and officers' insurance policy covering the time period of the class action lawsuit has an endorsement that limits the defense costs covered under the policy for the underwriters of the IPO to $1 million, and at this time the underwriters' attorneys have exhausted this $1 million sublimit. As of March 7, 2008, the total amount of outstanding underwriter defense costs was just less than $1.4 million. To the extent that our Company is liable for any material amounts denied under or in excess of our directors' and officers' insurance, or any other insurance policy for that matter, it could have a material effect on our business and our results of operations. Risks Associated with the Price of our Common Stock The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define a "penny stock" to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock prior to our reverse stock split on February 19, 2008 was less than $5.00 per share and if the market price of our common stock drops below $5.00 again, it may be designated as a "penny stock" according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares. 16 Anti-Takeover Provisions Our Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain, among other things, provisions establishing a classified Board of Directors, authorizing shares of preferred stock with respect to which our Board of Directors have the power to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions without any further vote or action by the stockholders, requiring that all stockholder action be taken at a stockholders' meeting and establishing certain advance notice requirements in order for stockholder proposals or director nominations to be considered at such meetings. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general this statute prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a "business combination" with an "interested stockholder" for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Such provision could delay, deter or prevent a merger, consolidation, tender offer, or other business combination or change of control involving our Company that some or a majority of our stockholders might consider to be in their best interest, including offers or attempted takeovers that might otherwise result in such stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for the common stock. The potential issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control, may discourage bids for the common stock at a premium over the market price of the common stock and may adversely affect the market price of and voting and other rights of the holders of the common stock. We have not issued and currently have no plans to issue shares of preferred stock. Item 