ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in connection with evaluating us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Certain statements in “Risk Factors” are forward-looking statements. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Forward-Looking Statements” for additional information about our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risk Factors Related to Our Business We encounter industry risks related to operating, managing and owning hotels that could cause our results of operations to suffer. Various factors could adversely affect our ability to generate hotel revenues for our owned properties and management fees for our managed properties, which are based on hotel revenues. Our business is subject to all of the operating risks inherent in the lodging industry. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: • changes in national, regional and local economic conditions; • cyclical overbuilding in the lodging industry; 13 • varying levels of demand for rooms and related services; • competition from other hotels, resorts and recreational properties, some of which may have greater marketing and financial resources than we or the owners of the properties we manage have; • the creditworthiness of the owners of the hotels that we manage and the risk of bankruptcy by hotel owners; • uninsured property, casualty and other losses; • disruptions due to weather conditions and other calamities, such as hurricanes; • labor disturbances or shortages of labor; • the ability of any joint ventures in which we invest to service any debt they incur and the risk of foreclosure associated with that debt; • our ability to service debt; • present or future environmental laws and regulations; • dependence on business and commercial travelers and tourism, which may fluctuate and be seasonal; • decreases in air travel; • fluctuations in operating costs; • the effects of owners not funding recurring costs of operations, necessary renovations, refurbishment and improvements of hotel properties; • changes in technology which may lead to changes in business, commercial and leisure travel frequency and/or patterns; • fluctuations in demand resulting from threatened or actual acts of terrorism or hostilities; • changes in governmental regulations that influence or determine wages, prices and construction and maintenance costs; • changes in interest rates and the availability of credit to us and owners of the hotels we manage; and • demographic, political or other changes in one or more markets could impact the convenience or desirability of the sites of some hotels, which would, in turn, affect the operations of those hotels. We encounter industry-related and other risks related to our investments in and ownership of hotels and other real estate that could adversely impact its value to us. In addition to the operating risks described above, with respect to hotels and real estate where we hold an ownership interest, we have the following additional risks: • ability to obtain financing at acceptable interest rates; • changes in local real estate market conditions; • changes in the markets for particular types of assets; • present or future environmental legislation; • the recurring costs of necessary renovations, refurbishment and improvements of hotel properties; • adverse changes in zoning and other laws; • adverse changes in real estate tax assessments; • eminent domain laws; • construction or renovation delays and cost overruns; and 14 • limitations on our ability to quickly dispose of investments and respond to changes in the economic or competitive environment due to the relative illiquidity of real estate assets. Most of these factors are beyond our control. As our company expands through the acquisition and/or development of real estate, the magnitude of these risks may increase. Any of these factors could have a material and adverse impact on the value of our assets or on the revenues that can be generated from those assets. In addition, due to the level of fixed costs required to operate upscale and select-service hotels, significant expenditures necessary for the operation of these properties generally cannot be reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in revenue. Therefore, if our properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our income will be adversely affected. In addition, as we increase our ownership of hotels, we will be more subject to volatility in our overall revenues, cash flows from operations and net income, as our portfolio of owned hotels is currently less diversified across markets and asset classes than our portfolio of managed hotels, and the revenues, cash from operations and net income associated with a single owned hotel will generally be substantially greater than the same from a single managed hotel. Changes in ownership of managed hotels could adversely affect the retention of our existing hotel management agreements. Increased hotel values in recent years have resulted in an increased rate of disposition by the owners of hotels we manage, which has led to the loss of management contracts. The loss of associated management contracts could have an adverse effect on our revenues to the extent we do not replace lost management contracts with new ones. An economic slowdown may lead to an increased risk of bankruptcy by owners of hotels and/or foreclosures on the hotel properties, which may inhibit our ability to collect fees under our management agreements or may lead to their termination. A large percentage of our managed properties are owned by a small group of owners, which could result in the loss of multiple management agreements in a short period. A significant portion of our managed properties and management fees are derived from seven owners. This group of owners represents 92, or 48.2%, of our managed properties and 22,453, or 52.7%, of our managed rooms as of December 31, 2007. These seven owners also accounted for 69.0% of our base and incentive management fees in 2007. Our portfolio of managed properties could be adversely impacted if any of these owners were acquired by another entity, sold their portfolio or entered into a property disposition plan. In addition to lost revenues, the termination of management agreements could result in the impairment of intangible assets and goodwill. See “— Our management agreements may be terminated or not renewed under various circumstances, including if the properties to which they relate are sold or otherwise disposed of by their owners, which may have a material impact on our results of operations.” If our revenues are negatively affected by one or more particular risks, our owned hotels operating margins could suffer. We report operating revenues and expenses from our owned hotels; therefore, we are susceptible to changes in operating revenues and are subject to the risk of fluctuating hotel operating margins at those hotels. Hotel operating expenses include, but are not limited to, wage and benefit costs, energy costs, supplies, repair and maintenance expenses, utilities, insurance and other operating expenses. These operating expenses can be difficult to predict, resulting in unpredictability in our operating margins. Also, due to the level of fixed costs required to operate full-service hotels, we are limited in our ability to reduce significant expenditures when circumstances cause a reduction in revenue. Our management agreements may be terminated or not renewed under various circumstances, including if the properties to which they relate are sold or otherwise disposed of by their owners, which may have a material impact on our results of operations. If the owner of a property we manage disposes of the property, or under certain management agreements, if specified performance standards at the hotel are not met, the owner may cease our management of the property. 15 Similarly, if an owner of properties we manage is acquired, the subsequent owner may have the right to terminate our management agreements. Although the management agreements with two of our most significant owners (Blackstone and Sunstone REIT) contain termination fee provisions, our management agreements with other owners generally have limited or no termination fees payable to us if a hotel is sold and the agreement is terminated. The termination of management contracts as a result of hotel dispositions or other factors could therefore have an adverse effect on our revenues. In addition, hotel owners may choose to allow our management agreements to expire. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 69 of our management agreements had current terms scheduled to expire within two years. In addition, for certain of our owners, we do not have the right to assign a management contract to an unrelated third party without prior written consent of the relevant hotel owner. A change in control of our Company would require the consent of these owners. The termination of management contracts may result in the write-off of management contract intangible assets and require an evaluation for potential impairment of our goodwill. The write-off of management contract intangible assets or the impairment of goodwill could have a material adverse effect on our statement of operations and earnings per share. A high percentage of the hotels we manage are upscale hotels so we may be particularly susceptible to an economic downturn, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. Approximately 80% of the rooms we manage are in hotels that are classified as upscale or upper-upscale hotels. These hotels generally command higher room rates. However, in an economic downturn, these hotels may be more susceptible to a decrease in revenues, as compared to hotels in other categories that have lower room rates. This characteristic results from hotels in this segment generally targeting business and high-end leisure travelers. In periods of economic difficulties, business and leisure travelers may seek to reduce travel costs by limiting trips or seeking to reduce costs on their trips. Adverse changes in economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Acts of terrorism, the threat of terrorism, the ongoing war against terrorism and other factors have impacted and will continue to impact the hotel industry and all hotel companies’ results of operations. The threat of terrorism could have a negative impact on hotel operations, causing lower than expected performance, particularly in weak economic cycles. The threat of terrorism could cause a significant decrease in hotel occupancy and average daily rates and result in disruptions in business and leisure travel patterns due to concerns about travel safety. Future outbreaks of hostilities could have a material negative effect on air travel and on our business. In addition, increased security measures at airports or in major metropolitan areas may also cause disruptions to our operations. The uncertainty associated with incidents and threats and the possibility of future attacks may hamper business and leisure travel patterns in the future. In addition, potential future outbreaks of contagious diseases and similar disruptive events could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations due to decreased travel and occupancy, especially in areas affected by such events. We are dependent on the owners of the hotel properties we manage to fund operational expenditures related to those properties, and if such funds are untimely or not paid, we are required to bear the cost. We incur significant expenditures related to the management of hotel properties, including salary and other benefit related costs and business and employee related insurance costs for which we are reimbursed by the hotel owners. In the normal course of business, we make every effort to pay these costs only after receiving payment from an owner for such costs. However, to the extent an owner would not be able to reimburse these costs, due to a sudden and unexpected insolvency situation or otherwise, we would be required to pay these costs directly until such time as we could make other arrangements. Although we would make every effort to eliminate these costs prior to the point at which an owner could not reimburse us and we would continue to pursue payment through all available legal means, our results of operations could be adversely affected if we were forced to bear those costs. 16 If we are unable to identify additional appropriate real estate acquisition or development opportunities and to arrange the financing necessary to complete these acquisitions or developments, our continued growth could be impaired. We continually evaluate potential real estate development and acquisition opportunities. Any future acquisitions or developments will be financed through a combination of internally generated funds, additional bank borrowings from existing or new credit facilities or mortgages, public offerings or private placements of equity or debt securities. The nature of any future financing will depend on factors such as the size of the particular acquisition or development and our capital structure at the time of a project. We may not be able to identify appropriate new acquisition or development opportunities and necessary financing may not be available on suitable terms, if at all. An important part of our growth strategy will be the investment in, and acquisition of, hotels. Continued industry consolidation and competition for acquisitions could adversely affect our growth prospects going forward. We will compete for hotel and other investment opportunities with other companies, some of which may have greater financial or other resources than we have. Competitors may have a lower cost of capital and may be able to pay higher prices or assume greater risks than would be prudent for us to pay or assume. If we are unable to make real estate investments and acquisitions, our continued growth could be impaired. Development activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may further increase completion risk or result in disputes that could increase project costs or impair project operations. Partnerships, joint ventures and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. Although we actively seek to minimize such risks before investing in partnerships, joint ventures or similar structures, actions by another investor may present additional risks of project delay, increased project costs, or operational difficulties following project completion. We face significant competition in the lodging industry and in the acquisition of real estate properties. There is no single competitor or small number of competitors that are dominant either in the hotel management or lodging business. We operate in areas that attract numerous competitors, some of which may have substantially greater resources than we or the owners of the properties that we manage have, including Marriott International, Inc., Starwood Hotel & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. and Hilton Hotels Corporation, among others. Competition in the lodging industry is based generally on location, brand affiliation, room availability, room rates, range and quality of services and guest amenities offered. New or existing competitors could lower rates; offer greater conveniences, services or amenities; or significantly expand, improve or introduce new facilities in markets in which we compete. Any of these factors could adversely affect operations and the number of suitable business opportunities. In addition, we compete for hotel management contracts against numerous other companies, many of which may have greater financial resources than we have. These competitors include the management divisions of the major hotel brands as well as independent, non-brand affiliated hotel managers. We expect to acquire additional hotel properties from time to time. The acquisition of properties involves risks, including the risk that the acquired property will not perform as anticipated and the risk that any actual costs for rehabilitating, repositioning, renovating and improving identified in the pre-acquisition process will exceed estimates. There is, and it is expected that there will continue to be, significant competition for acquisitions that meet our investment criteria as well as risks associated with obtaining financing for acquisition activities. The continuing consolidation in the hotel industry may also reduce the availability of opportunities for us to acquire hotels. Our failure to make such acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our ability to carry out our growth strategy. Investing through partnerships or joint ventures decreases our ability to manage risk. In addition to acquiring hotels and resorts directly, we have invested and expect to continue to invest in joint ventures. Joint ventures often have shared control over the operation of the joint venture assets. Consequently, actions by a partner may subject hotels and resorts owned by the joint venture to additional risk. As we generally 17 maintain a minority ownership interest in our joint ventures, we are usually unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. Alternatively, our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. The illiquidity of real estate investments and the lack of alternative uses of hotel properties could significantly limit our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, the ability to promptly sell one or more properties in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. In addition, hotel properties may not readily be converted to alternative uses if they were to become unprofitable due to competition, age of improvements, decreased demand or other factors. The conversion of a hotel to alternative uses would also generally require substantial capital expenditures. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We may not have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements and as a result our ability to sell the property would be limited. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could significantly harm our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain adequate insurance levels or failure to be reimbursed by our hotel owners for property level insurance coverage or losses could result in significant expenditures. We maintain insurance coverage at the hotels we manage and are the named insured on the workers compensation, general liability, and employment practices insurance policies. We are reimbursed by the hotel owners for the cost of these insurance policies as per our management contracts. We place insurance policies with insurers that are A.M. Best’s rated “A” or better. We look to maintain adequate coverage to minimize our overall risk exposure. There are losses that may not be covered by these policies and in some cases we may, after reviewing the risks, accept a level of risk on a per claim basis in order to maintain adequate insurance at appropriate premiums. We would be indemnified for these losses assuming the owner is accessible and has the financial ability to compensate us. Losses incurred under these policies may not be reported or settled for several years after the original date of loss. If the insurance company becomes insolvent, we will pursue payment from the hotel owner but may not be successful. We would be liable for any amounts we do not collect from an owner and those amounts could be significant. We also maintain health and welfare benefit programs for our associates at the hotels we manage. These programs include securing fully insured contracts and administrative services with various carriers for short term disability, medical and dental insurance coverage. We have decided to retain a portion of the risk with respect to certain programs based on our belief that we have a sufficient risk pool to stabilize claim projections, appropriate claims controls and limited overall risk. Regarding the short term disability and dental programs, overall benefit payments are considered low, resulting in overall limited risk exposure. With regard to the medical program, we purchase reinsurance on a specific claim basis so that overall risk is limited on a per occurrence basis. Premiums for the funding of the risk retention programs are determined by outside consultants, including Hewitt Associates, after carefully reviewing past claim patterns, the population of those we insure both geographically and demographically, as well as other factors to determine a reasonable level of risk. However, to the extent we experience significant losses that are not reimbursed by the hotel owners and exceed our reserves, those losses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Uninsured and underinsured losses could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Various types of catastrophic losses, such as losses due to wars, terrorist acts, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution, contagious diseases, such as the avian flu and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), or environmental matters, generally are either uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be subject to insurance coverage limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. In the event of a catastrophic loss, our 18 insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the full current market value or replacement cost of our lost investment. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. In the event of a significant loss that is covered by insurance, our deductible may be high and, as a consequence, it could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also keep us from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate a hotel after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under those circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might be inadequate to restore our economic position in the damaged or destroyed property. The insurance market has been adversely affected. Large scale terrorist attacks and hurricanes could result in an increase in premiums and reductions in insurance coverage, especially for terrorism and catastrophic risks such as wind, flood and earthquakes. If we are unable to maintain cost-effective insurance that meets the requirements of our lenders and franchisors, or if we are unable to amend or obtain waivers of those requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We invest in a single industry and are therefore very susceptible to economic fluctuations specific to that industry. Our current strategy is to acquire interests only in hospitality and lodging. As a result, we are subject to the risks inherent in investing in a single industry. The effects on cash available for distribution resulting from a downturn in the hotel industry may be more pronounced than if we had diversified our investments. Our international operations expose us to additional risks, which, if we fail to manage them adequately, may adversely impact our results of operations. Our management fees earned from hotels located outside of the United States were 21.0%, 13.7% and 11.5% of total management fees for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. At December 31, 2007, we and our affiliates managed 11 international properties, an increase from the four international properties we managed at the end of 2006. In July 2007, we entered into two separate joint ventures to own and operate hotels in Mexico. We own 15% of one of the joint ventures, which owns three resort properties in Mexico, and we own 50% of the other joint venture, which manages those three hotels and serves to identify other management opportunities in Mexico and Latin America. We expect to begin managing our sixth and seventh hotels in Moscow in 2008. We will also continue to actively pursue additional international opportunities. We have also formed in 2008, a joint venture management company (of which we hold a 50% interest) that will begin seeking management opportunities in India. Simultaneous with the formation of this management company, we also invested in a related private real estate fund that will seek opportunities to purchase and/or develop hotels in India. As we continue to grow our international presence, we are subject to various risks. These risks include tax, environmental zoning, employment laws, repatriation of money, liquor license, exposure to currency fluctuations, managing potential difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights, other laws in the countries in which we operate, and the effects of potential and actual international terrorism and hostilities. We are particularly sensitive to any factors that may influence international travel. In addition, we cannot be certain of the effect that changing political and economic conditions could have on our international hotel operations and on our ability to collect on loans to third-party owners overseas. Furthermore, the success of our international operations depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified management personnel who are familiar not only with our business and industry but also with the local commercial practices and economic environment. As a U.S. company operating internationally, we may be subject to inconsistencies between U.S. law and the laws of an international jurisdiction. If taxation authorities in the countries in which we operate interpret our tax position in a manner that is materially different than our assumptions, our tax liabilities could increase which could materially adversely impact our financial results. Tax laws in foreign countries may provide for tax rates that exceed those of the U.S. which may provide that our foreign earnings are subject to withholding requirements or other restrictions. In addition, sales and international jurisdictions typically are made in local currencies, which subject us to risks 19 associated with currency fluctuations. Currency devaluations and unfavorable changes in international monetary and tax policies could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financing plans, as could other changes in the international regulatory climate and international economic conditions. Third-party hotel owners are not required to use the ancillary services we provide, which reduces the revenue we would otherwise receive from them. In addition to traditional hotel management services, we offer to third-party hotel owners several ancillary services such as purchasing, project management, self-insurance programs and risk management, information technology and telecommunication services, and centralized accounting services. We expect to derive a portion of our revenues from these services. Our management contracts do not obligate third-party hotel owners to utilize these services, and the failure of hotel owners to utilize these services could adversely affect our overall revenues. We may be adversely affected by the limitations in our franchising and licensing agreements. We are the brand franchisee of record for the hotels we own and for some of the hotels we have interests in or manage. In addition, with respect to hotels for which we are not the franchisee, we may sign a manager acknowledgment agreement with the franchisor that details some of our rights and obligations with respect to the hotel and references the hotel’s franchise agreement. The franchise agreements generally contain specific standards for, and restrictions and limitations on, the operation and maintenance of a hotel in order to maintain uniformity within the franchisor’s system. Those limitations may conflict with our philosophy of creating specific business plans tailored to each hotel and to each market. Standards are often subject to change over time, at the discretion of the franchisor, and may restrict a franchisee’s ability to make improvements or modifications to a hotel without the consent of the franchisor. In addition, compliance with standards could require a hotel owner to incur significant expenses or capital expenditures. Action or inaction by us or by the owner of a hotel we manage could result in a breach of standards or other terms and conditions of the franchise agreements and could result in the loss or cancellation of a franchise license. Loss of franchise licenses without replacement would likely have an adverse effect on hotel revenues which could result in adverse affects to our overall revenues. In connection with terminating or changing the franchise affiliation of a hotel, the owner of the hotel may be required to incur significant expenses or capital expenditures. Moreover, the loss of a franchise license could have a material adverse effect upon the operation or the underlying value of the hotel covered by the franchise due to the loss of associated name recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems provided by the franchisor. Franchise agreements covering the hotels we manage expire or terminate, without specified renewal rights, at various times and have differing remaining terms. As a condition to renewal, these franchise agreements frequently contemplate a renewal application process. This process may require an owner to make substantial capital improvements to a hotel. Although the management agreements generally require owners to make capital improvements to maintain the quality of a property, we are not able to directly control the timing or amount of those expenditures. Some of the franchise agreements under which we operate and manage hotels restrict the franchisee’s ability to own or operate another hotel within a specified territory or with regard to specific hotels. These limitations, if found to apply to us, may limit our ability to acquire new management agreements and potentially impair our continued growth. Costs of compliance with employment laws and regulations could adversely affect operating results. Union contracts for hotel employees in several major markets will be up for renewal between 2008 and 2010. Although under the terms of the management contracts the employees at our managed hotels are paid by the hotel owners, they are our employees. In addition, we have a significant number of employees working at our owned hotels. The failure to timely renegotiate the contracts that are expiring could result in labor disruptions, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Labor costs could also escalate beyond our expectations and could have a material adverse effect on our operating margins. 20 In addition, there are ongoing attempts to unionize at some of those hotels that we own and/or manage which are not currently unionized. To the extent any of our non-unionized properties become unionized, our labor costs would most likely increase and have an adverse effect on our operating margins at our owned hotels. Costs of compliance with environmental laws could adversely affect operating results. Under various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for noncompliance with applicable environmental and health and safety requirements for the costs of investigation, monitoring, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances. These laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of these hazardous or toxic substances on a property could also result in personal injury or property damage or similar claims by private parties. In addition, the presence of contamination or the failure to report, investigate or properly remediate contaminated property, may adversely affect the operation of the property or the owner’s ability to sell or rent the property or to borrow using the property as collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of those substances at the disposal or treatment facility, whether or not that facility is or ever was owned or operated by that person. The operation and removal of underground storage tanks are also regulated by federal and state laws. In connection with the ownership and operation of hotels, the operators, such as us or the owners of those properties could be held liable for the costs of remedial action for regulated substances and storage tanks and related claims. All of the hotels that we own and the majority of the hotels we manage have undergone Phase I environmental site assessments, which generally provide a non-intrusive physical inspection and database search, but not soil or groundwater analyses, by a qualified independent environmental consultant. The purpose of a Phase I assessment is to identify potential sources of contamination for which the hotel owner may be responsible. The Phase I assessments have not revealed, nor are we aware of, any environmental liability or compliance concerns that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Nevertheless, it is possible that these environmental site assessments did not reveal all environmental liabilities or compliance concerns or that material environmental liabilities or compliance concerns exist of which we are currently unaware. In addition, a significant number of the hotels we own or manage have been inspected to determine the presence of asbestos. Federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations also require abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials and govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. Asbestos-containing materials are present in various building materials such as sprayed-on ceiling treatments, roofing materials or floor tiles at some of the hotels. Operations and maintenance programs for maintaining asbestos-containing materials have been or are in the process of being designed and implemented, or the asbestos-containing materials have been scheduled to be or have been abated, at those hotels at which we are aware that asbestos-containing materials are present. Any liability resulting from non-compliance or other claims relating to environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We have also detected the presence of mold at one of our owned hotels and are evaluating the impact and will take the appropriate measures to remediate the situation. Many of the costs associated with remediation of mold may be excluded from coverage under our property and general liability policies, in which event we would be required to use our own funds to remediate. Further, in the event moisture infiltration and resulting mold is pervasive, we may not be able to rent rooms at that hotel, which could result in a loss of revenue. Liabilities resulting from moisture infiltration and the presence of or exposure to mold could have a future material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Furthermore, various court decisions have established that third parties may recover damages for injury caused by property contamination or exposure to hazardous substances such as asbestos, lead paint or black mold. In recent years, concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing as such exposure has been alleged to have a variety of adverse effects on health. As a result, there has been an increasing number of lawsuits against owners and managers of real property relating to the presence of mold. Damages related to the presence of mold are generally excluded from our insurance coverage. Should an uninsured loss arise against us at one of our owned hotels, we 21 would be required to use our own funds to resolve the issue, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Aspects of hotel, resort, conference center, and restaurant operations are subject to governmental regulation, and changes in regulations may have significant adverse effects on our business. A number of states regulate various aspects of hotels, resorts, conference centers and restaurants, including liquor licensing, by requiring registration, disclosure statements and compliance with specific standards of conduct and timely filing of certain sales use or property tax forms, which could result in additional tax payments and fines. Managers of hotels are also subject to employment laws, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. Compliance with, or changes in, these laws could reduce the revenue and profitability of hotels and could otherwise adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. As an agent for hotels we may be liable for noncompliance. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA, all public accommodations in the United States are required to meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. A determination that the hotels we own are not in compliance with the ADA could result in a judicial order requiring compliance, imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The lodging business is seasonal. Generally, hotel revenues are greater in the second and third calendar quarters than in the first and fourth calendar quarters, although hotels in tourist destinations generate greater revenue during tourist season than other times of the year. Seasonal variations in revenue at the hotels we own or manage will cause quarterly fluctuations in revenues. Events beyond our control, such as extreme weather conditions, economic factors, geopolitical conflicts, actual or potential terrorist attacks, and other considerations affecting travel may also adversely affect our earnings. Failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions and damage to our reputation, subjecting us to costs, fines or lawsuits. Our businesses require collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers as they are entered into, processed by, summarized by, and reported by our various information systems. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. The integrity and protection of that customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. If that data is not accurate or complete we could make faulty decisions. Our customers also have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information, and the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, both in the United States and other international jurisdictions in which we operate. A significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer, employee or company data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines and litigation. If the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that we have identified is not remedied, it could result in a material misstatement in our financial statements not being prevented or detected in a timely manner, could adversely affect investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, and could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Through, in part, the documentation, testing and assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the rules promulgated by the SEC under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Item 308 of Regulation S-K, management has concluded that we did not maintain effective controls over a change in accounting for the impairment of intangible assets related to terminated management contracts. Management has determined that this control deficiency represented a material weakness as of December 31, 2007. This material weakness and our remediation plans are described further in Item 9A “Controls and Procedures” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Prior to the remediation of this material weakness in 2008, there remains risk that the controls on which we currently rely will fail to be sufficiently effective, which could result in a material misstatement of our financial position or results of operations and require a restatement of our financial statements. In addition, even if we are successful in 22 strengthening our controls and procedures, such controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or facilitate the fair presentation of our financial statements or SEC reporting. Any material weakness or the unsuccessful remediation thereof could have a material adverse effect on reported results of operations and financial condition, as well as impair our ability to meet our quarterly and annual reporting requirements in a timely manner. If we fail to retain our executive officers and key personnel, our business could be harmed. Our ability to maintain our competitive position will depend, to a significant extent, on the efforts and ability of our senior management. Our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel is critical to our operations. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining our personnel. Our inability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risk Factors Related to Our Capital Structure Restrictions imposed by our debt agreements may limit our ability to execute our business strategy and increase the risk of default under our debt obligations. Our amended and restated senior secured credit facility, which we entered into in March 2007 (as amended from time to time, which we refer to as the “Credit Facility”), and our mortgages contain restrictive covenants. These restrictions include requirements to maintain financial ratios, which may significantly limit our ability to, among other things: • borrow additional money; • make capital expenditures and other investments; • pay dividends; • merge, consolidate or dispose of assets; • acquire assets; and • incur additional liens. A significant decline in our operations could reduce our cash from operations and cause us to be in default under other covenants in our debt agreements. A default would leave us unable to access our Credit Facility, and we depend on our Credit Facility to supply the necessary liquidity to continue or to implement new operations and execute on our business strategy. We will, in the future, be required to repay, refinance or negotiate an extension of the maturity of our debt agreements. Our ability to complete the necessary repayments, refinancings or extensions is subject to a number of conditions, many of which are beyond our control. For example, if there were a disruption in the lodging or financial markets as a result of the occurrence of one of the risks identified above under “Risk Factors Related to Our Business” or any other event, we might be unable to access the financial markets. Failure to complete the necessary repayments, refinancings or extensions of our agreements would have a material adverse effect on us. Our leverage could have a material adverse effect on our ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness and place other limitations on the conduct of our business. As of December 31, 2007, we had total indebtedness of $211.7 million. Our level of indebtedness has important consequences. It currently requires us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and our business strategy. Additionally, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; 23 • limit our ability in the future to refinance our debt or obtain financing for expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general business purposes on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if it is available at all; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • prevent us from raising additional capital needed; or • limit our access to additional funding or potentially make additional funding inaccessible given the current environment surrounding liquidity within the credit markets. In addition, despite our current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our leverage. A deficit in working capital may reduce funds available to us for expansion of our business. As of December 31, 2007, we had a deficit in working capital of $12.8 million. A continued deficit in working capital may require us to make additional borrowings to pay our current obligations. Such borrowings would serve to reduce amounts available to us for pursuit of our business strategy of growing through securing additional management contracts and acquiring additional hotel, resort and conference center properties. Declines in our corporate credit ratings could have an adverse effect on us. Credit rating services assign a rating to us based on their perception of our ability to service debt. Our current long-term ratings are ‘B1 Negative’ and ‘B/Stable/-’ from Moody’s and S&P, respectively. Fluctuations in our operating performance or changes in the amount of our debt may result in a change to our rating. A negative change in our ratings could increase the cost of, or prevent us from making future financings. Impairments of assets or goodwill may increase the risk of default under our debt obligations and have an adverse effect on our stock price. We are required to evaluate our assets, including goodwill, annually or upon certain trigger events in order to ascertain that the historical carrying value is not less than the fair market value of the asset. Should we determine that an asset’s carrying value is less than its fair market value, the asset would be considered impaired, and we would recognize a write-down of the asset to its current fair value. Our current debt covenants require us to maintain certain ratios, including a minimum net worth. To the extent an impairment would reduce our asset base, we could fall below that net worth and fail that test. If we are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment to the covenant, the resulting default could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, because the impairment of long-lived assets or goodwill would be recorded as an operating expense, such a write-down would negatively affect our net income and earnings per share, which could have a negative impact on our stock price. Our stockholder rights plan and the anti-takeover defense provisions of our charter documents may deter potential acquirers and depress our stock price. Under our stockholder rights plan, holders of our common stock hold one preferred share purchase right for each outstanding share of common stock they hold, exercisable under defined circumstances involving a potential change of control. The preferred share purchase rights have the anti-takeover effect of causing substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. Those provisions could have a material adverse effect on the premium that potential acquirers might be willing to pay in an acquisition or that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Provisions of Delaware law and of our charter and bylaws may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us. These provisions could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control of us under circumstances that could otherwise give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to 24 realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. These provisions include the following: • we are able to issue preferred shares with rights senior to our common stock; • our certificate of incorporation prohibits action by written consent of our stockholders, and our stockholders are not able to call special meetings; • our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide for a classified Board of Directors; • our directors are subject to removal only for cause and upon the vote of two-thirds of the outstanding shares of our common stock; • our bylaws require advance notice for the nomination of directors and for stockholder proposals; • we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits our ability to enter into business combination transactions with interested stockholders; and • specified provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may be amended only upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the outstanding shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are currently no unresolved staff comments. 