Risk Factors. Regulations Domestic exploration for, production and sale of, oil and natural gas are extensively regulated at both the federal, state and local levels. Legislation affecting the oil and natural gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. Also, numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue, and have issued, rules and regulations binding on the oil and natural gas industry that often are costly to comply with and that carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. In addition, production operations are affected by changing tax and other laws relating to the oil and natural gas industry, constantly changing administrative regulations and possible interruptions or termination by government authorities. State regulatory authorities have established rules and regulations requiring permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds and reports concerning operations. Most states in which we operate also have statutes and regulations governing a number of environmental and conservation matters, including the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties and establishment of maximum rates of production from oil and natural gas wells. Many states also restrict production to the market demand for oil and natural gas. Such statutes and regulations may limit the rate at which oil and natural gas could otherwise be produced from our properties. We are subject to extensive and evolving environmental laws and regulations. These regulations are administered by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and various other federal, state, and local environmental, zoning, health and safety agencies, many of which periodically examine our operations to monitor compliance with such laws and regulations. These regulations govern the release of waste materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, human, animal and plant health, and affect our operations and costs. In recent years, environmental regulations have taken a cradle to grave approach to waste management, regulating and creating liabilities for the waste at its inception to final disposition. Our oil and natural gas exploration, development and production operations are subject to numerous environmental programs, some of which include solid and hazardous waste management, water protection, air emission controls and situs controls affecting wetlands, coastal operations and antiquities. Environmental programs typically regulate the permitting, construction and operations of a facility. Many factors, including public perception, can materially impact the ability to secure an environmental construction or operation permit. Once operational, enforcement measures can include significant civil penalties for regulatory violations regardless of intent. Under appropriate circumstances, an administrative agency can request a cease and desist order to terminate operations. New programs and changes in existing programs are anticipated, some of which include natural occurring radioactive materials, oil and natural gas exploration and production waste management and underground injection of waste materials. Each state in which we operate has laws and regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution. Many states also have regulations governing oil and natural gas exploration, development and production operations. We are also subject to federal and state Hazard Communications and Community Right to Know statutes and regulations. These regulations govern record keeping and reporting of the use and release of hazardous substances. We believe we are in compliance with these requirements in all material respects. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may be required in the future to make substantial outlays to comply with environmental laws and regulations. The additional changes in operating procedures and expenditures required to comply with future laws dealing with the protection of the environment cannot be predicted. Employees As of December 31, 2007, we had 262 full-time employees. We hire independent contractors on an as needed basis. We have no collective bargaining agreements with our employees. We believe that our employee relationships are satisfactory. Access to Company Reports We file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC in accordance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf of directors and officers, and any amendments to such reports available free of charge through our corporate website at www.petrohawk.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. In addition, our corporate governance guidelines, code of conduct, code of ethics for our chief executive officer (CEO) and senior financial officers, audit committee charter, compensation committee charter and nominating committee charter are available on our website. Within the time period required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), as applicable, we will post on our website any modifications to the code of conduct and the code of ethics for our CEO and senior financial officers and any waivers applicable to senior officers as defined in the applicable code, as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. You may also read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, our reports, proxy and information statements, and our other filings are also available to the public over the internet at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and low prices could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our revenues, profitability and future growth and the carrying value of our properties depend substantially on prevailing oil and natural gas prices. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The amount we will be able to borrow under our senior revolving credit facility will be subject to periodic redetermination based in part on changing expectations of future prices. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can economically produce and have an adverse effect on the value of our properties. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Among the factors that can cause volatility are: • the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other producing countries to agree upon and maintain oil prices and production levels; • political instability, armed conflict or terrorist attacks, whether or not in oil or natural gas producing regions; • the level of consumer product demand; • the growth of consumer product demand in emerging markets, such as China; • labor unrest in oil and natural gas producing regions; • weather conditions, including hurricanes and other natural occurrences that affect the supply and/or demand of oil and natural gas; 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the price of foreign imports; • worldwide economic conditions; and • the availability of liquid natural gas imports. These external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to estimate future prices of oil and natural gas. Unless we replace our reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In general, the volume of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. Our reserves will decline as they are produced unless we acquire properties with proved reserves or conduct successful development and exploration activities. Thus, our future oil and natural gas production and, therefore, our cash flow and income are highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. However, we cannot assure you that our future acquisition, development and exploration activities will result in any specific amount of additional proved reserves or that we will be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of a number of factors. These factors include recoverable reserves, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities, title issues and other factors. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with such assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe is thorough. However, there is no assurance that such a review will reveal all existing or potential problems or allow us to fully assess the deficiencies and capabilities of such properties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire properties at acceptable prices because the competition for producing oil and natural gas properties is intense and many of our competitors have financial and other resources that are substantially greater than those available to us. Our bank lenders can limit our borrowing capabilities, which may materially impact our operations. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $1.6 billion of long-term debt. As of December 31, 2007, the borrowing base under our senior revolving credit facility was $675 million and we had outstanding borrowings under the facility of $570 million. On February 5, 2008, our borrowing base was increased to $1 billion. The borrowing base limitation under our senior revolving credit facility is semi-annually redetermined. Redeterminations are based upon a number of factors, including commodity prices and reserve levels. Upon a redetermination, our borrowing base could be substantially reduced. We utilize cash flow from operations, bank borrowings and debt and equity financings to fund our development, acquisition and exploration activities. A reduction in our borrowing base could limit our activity in this regard. In addition, we may significantly alter our capitalization in order to make future acquisitions or develop our properties. These changes in capitalization may significantly increase our level of debt. If we incur additional debt for these or other purposes, the related risks that we now face could intensify. A higher level of debt also increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of debt depends on our future performance which is affected by general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Our level of debt affects our operations in several important ways, including the following: • a portion of our cash flow from operations is used to pay interest on borrowings; • the covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt limit our ability to borrow additional funds, pay dividends, dispose of assets or issue shares of preferred stock and otherwise may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions; 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • a high level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes; • a more leveraged financial position would make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and could limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures; and • any debt that we incur under our senior revolving credit facility will be at variable rates which make us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. Our ability to finance our business activities will require us to generate substantial cash flow. Our business activities require substantial capital. For 2008, we have budgeted capital expenditures of $800 million. We intend to finance our capital expenditures in the future primarily through cash flow from operations as well as additional borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility. We cannot be sure that our business will continue to generate cash flow at or above current levels. Future cash flows and the availability of financing will be subject to a number of variables, such as: • the level of production from existing wells; • prices of oil and natural gas; • our results in locating and producing new reserves; • the success and timing of development of proved undeveloped reserves; and • general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our budgeted drilling expenditures and/or we are not able to borrow additional funds under our senior revolving credit facility, we may be forced to reduce such expenditures or obtain additional financing through the issuance of debt and/or equity. We cannot be sure that any additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms. Issuing equity securities to satisfy our financing requirements could cause substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. The level of our debt financing could also materially affect our operations. If our cash flows were to decrease due to lower oil and natural gas prices, decreased production or other reasons, and if we could not obtain capital through our senior revolving credit facility or otherwise, our ability to execute our development and acquisition plans, replace our reserves or maintain production levels could be greatly limited. Estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves are uncertain and any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates will materially affect the quantities and the value of our reserves. This report on Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and the value of our reserves. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. At December 31, 2007, approximately 43% of our estimated reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. Estimates of proved undeveloped reserves are less certain than estimates of proved developed 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements reserves. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data assumes that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop our reserves. Although we have prepared estimates of these oil and natural gas reserves and the costs associated with development of these reserves in accordance with SEC regulations, actual capital expenditures will likely vary from estimated capital expenditures, development may not occur as scheduled and actual results may not be as estimated. We depend substantially on the continued presence of key personnel for critical management decisions and industry contacts. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and key employees, particularly with respect to providing the critical management decisions and contacts necessary to manage and maintain growth within a highly competitive industry. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense, particularly in the oil and natural gas industry, and there are a limited number of people with the requisite knowledge and experience. Under these conditions, we could be unable to attract and retain these personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our business is highly competitive. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive in many respects, including identification of attractive oil and natural gas properties for acquisition, drilling and development, securing financing for such activities and obtaining the necessary equipment and personnel to conduct such operations and activities. In seeking suitable opportunities, we compete with a number of other companies, including large oil and natural gas companies and other independent operators with greater financial resources, larger numbers of personnel and facilities, and, in some cases, with more expertise. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with these entities. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas production, we have entered into oil and natural gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our anticipated production. We will most likely enter into additional hedging transactions in the future. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile oil and natural gas prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • our production is less than expected; • there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; or • the counterparties to our hedging agreements fail to perform under the contracts. Our oil and natural gas activities are subject to various risks which are beyond our control. Our operations are subject to many risks and hazards incident to exploring and drilling for, producing, transporting, marketing and selling oil and natural gas. Although we may take precautionary measures, many of these risks and hazards are beyond our control and unavoidable under the circumstances. Many of these risks or hazards could materially and adversely affect our revenues and expenses, the ability of certain of our wells to produce oil and natural gas in commercial quantities, the rate of production and the economics of the development of, and our investment in the prospects in which we have or will acquire an interest. Any of these 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements risks and hazards could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such risks and hazards include: • human error, accidents, labor force and other factors beyond our control that may cause personal injuries or death to persons and destruction or damage to equipment and facilities; • blowouts, fires, hurricanes, pollution and equipment failures that may result in damage to or destruction of wells, producing formations, production facilities and equipment; • unavailability of materials and equipment; • engineering and construction delays; • unanticipated transportation costs and delays; • unfavorable weather conditions; • hazards resulting from unusual or unexpected geological or environmental conditions; • environmental regulations and requirements; • accidental leakage of toxic or hazardous materials, such as petroleum liquids or drilling fluids, into the environment; • hazards resulting from the presence of H2S in gas we produce; • changes in laws and regulations, including laws and regulations applicable to oil and natural gas activities or markets for the oil and natural gas produced; • fluctuations in supply and demand for oil and natural gas causing variations of the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production; and • the availability of alternative fuels and the price at which they become available. As a result of these risks, expenditures, quantities and rates of production, revenues and cash operating costs may be materially adversely affected and may differ materially from those anticipated by us. Governmental and environmental regulations could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations on taxation, the exploration for and development, production and marketing of oil and natural gas and safety matters. Many laws and regulations require drilling permits and govern the spacing of wells, rates of production, prevention of waste, unitization and pooling of properties and other matters. These laws and regulations have increased the costs of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating and abandoning our oil and natural gas wells and other facilities. In addition, these laws and regulations, and any others that are passed by the jurisdictions where we have production, could limit the total number of wells drilled or the allowable production from successful wells, which could limit our revenues. Our operations are also subject to complex environmental laws and regulations adopted by the various jurisdictions in which we have or expect to have oil and natural gas operations. We could incur liability to governments or third parties for any unlawful discharge of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water, including responsibility for remedial costs. We could potentially discharge these materials into the environment in any of the following ways: • from a well or drilling equipment at a drill site; • from gathering systems, pipelines, transportation facilities and storage tanks; 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • damage to oil and natural gas wells resulting from accidents during normal operations; and • blowouts, hurricanes, cratering and explosions. Because the requirements imposed by laws and regulations are frequently changed, we cannot assure you that laws and regulations enacted in the future, including changes to existing laws and regulations, will not adversely affect our business. In addition, because we acquire interests in properties that have been operated in the past by others, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by the former operators. We cannot be certain that the insurance coverage maintained by us will be adequate to cover all losses that may be sustained in connection with all oil and natural gas activities. We maintain general and excess liability policies, which we consider to be reasonable and consistent with industry standards. These policies generally cover: • personal injury; • bodily injury; • third party property damage; • medical expenses; • legal defense costs; • pollution in some cases; • well blowouts in some cases; and • workers compensation. As is common in the oil and natural gas industry, we will not insure fully against all risks associated with our business either because such insurance is not available or because we believe the premium costs are prohibitive. A loss not fully covered by insurance could have a materially adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the insurance coverage that we maintain will be sufficient to cover every claim made against us in the future. A loss in connection with our oil and natural gas properties could have a materially adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations to the extent that the insurance coverage provided under our policies cover only a portion of any such loss. Title to the properties in which we have an interest may be impaired by title defects. We generally obtain title opinions on significant properties that we drill or acquire. However, there is no assurance that we will not suffer a monetary loss from title defects or title failure. Additionally, undeveloped acreage has greater risk of title defects than developed acreage. Generally, under the terms of the operating agreements affecting our properties, any monetary loss is to be borne by all parties to any such agreement in proportion to their interests in such property. If there are any title defects or defects in assignment of leasehold rights in properties in which we hold an interest, we will suffer a financial loss. Assets we acquire may prove to be worth less than we paid because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our recent growth is due significantly to acquisitions of exploration and production companies, producing properties and undeveloped leaseholds. We expect acquisitions will also contribute to our future growth. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil and natural gas prices, operating and capital costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform a review of the acquired properties which we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements review may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not inspect every well. Even when we inspect a well, we do not always discover structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise. We are generally not entitled to contractual indemnification for preclosing liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Normally, we acquire interests in properties on an “as is” basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to acquire oil and natural gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or be able to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms. Our exploration and development drilling efforts and the operation of our wells may not be profitable or achieve our targeted returns. We require significant amounts of undeveloped leasehold acreage in order to further our development efforts. Exploration, development, drilling and production activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that commercially productive reservoirs will not be discovered. We invest in property, including undeveloped leasehold acreage, which we believe will result in projects that will add value over time. However, we cannot guarantee that all of our prospects will result in viable projects or that we will not abandon our initial investments. Additionally, we cannot guarantee that the leasehold acreage we acquire will be profitably developed, that new wells drilled by us will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such leasehold acreage or wells. Drilling for oil and natural gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit after deducting operating and other costs. In addition, wells that are profitable may not achieve our targeted rate of return. Our ability to achieve our target results are dependent upon the current and future market prices for oil and natural gas, costs associated with producing oil and natural gas and our ability to add reserves at an acceptable cost. We rely to a significant extent on 3-D seismic data and other advanced technologies in identifying leasehold acreage prospects and in conducting our exploration activities. The 3-D seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to our acquisition of leasehold acreage or drilling a well whether oil or gas is present or may be produced economically. The use of 3-D seismic data and other technologies also requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies. In addition, we may not be successful in controlling and reducing our drilling and production costs in order to improve our overall return. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. We cannot predict the cost of drilling, and we may be forced to limit, delay or cancel drilling operations as a result of a variety of factors, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment; • adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes; and • compliance with governmental requirements. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling rig crews rise as the number of active rigs in service increases. As a result of increasing levels of exploration and production in response to strong prices of oil and natural gas, the demand for oilfield services has risen, and the costs of these 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements services are increasing, while the quality of these services may suffer. If the unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel were particularly severe in Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas and Louisiana, we could be materially and adversely affected because our operations and properties are concentrated in those areas. In order to secure drilling rigs in these areas, we have entered into certain contracts with drilling companies that extend over several years. If demand for drilling rigs subsides during the period covered by these contracts, the price we are required to pay may be significantly more than the market rate for similar services. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends on services and facilities that we typically do not own or control. The failure or inaccessibility of any such services or facilities could result in a curtailment of production and revenues. The marketability of our production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. Pursuant to interruptible or short term transportation agreements, we generally deliver gas through gathering systems and pipelines that we do not own. Under the interruptible transportation agreements, the transportation of our gas may be interrupted due to capacity constraints on the applicable system, for maintenance or repair of the system, or for other reasons as dictated by the particular agreements. If any of the pipelines or other facilities become unavailable, we would be required to find a suitable alternative to transport and process the gas, which could increase our costs and reduce the revenues we might obtain from the sale of the gas. We depend on the skill, ability and decisions of third party operators to a significant extent. The success of the drilling, development and production of the oil and natural gas properties in which we have or expect to have a non-operating working interest is substantially dependent upon the decisions of such third-party operators and their diligence to comply with various laws, rules and regulations affecting such properties. The failure of any third-party operator to make decisions, perform their services, discharge their obligations, deal with regulatory agencies, and comply with laws, rules and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations in a proper manner with respect to properties in which we have an interest could result in material adverse consequences to our interest in such properties, including substantial penalties and compliance costs. Such adverse consequences could result in substantial liabilities to us or reduce the value of our properties, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We may be required to take non-cash asset writedowns if oil and natural gas prices decline. We may be required under full cost accounting rules to writedown the carrying value of oil and natural gas properties if oil and natural gas prices decline or if there are substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of development costs or deterioration in our exploration results. We utilize the full cost method of accounting for oil and natural gas exploration and development activities. Under full cost accounting, we are required by SEC regulations to perform a ceiling test each quarter. The ceiling test is an impairment test and generally establishes a maximum, or “ceiling,” of the book value of oil and natural gas properties that is equal to the expected after tax present value (discounted at 10%) of the future net cash flows from proved reserves, including the effect of cash flow hedges when hedge accounting is applied, calculated using prevailing oil and natural gas prices on the last day of the period or a subsequent higher price under certain limited circumstances. If the net book value of oil and natural gas properties (reduced by any related net deferred income tax liability and asset retirement obligation) exceeds the ceiling limitation, SEC regulations require us to impair or “writedown” the book value of our oil and natural gas properties. Depending on the magnitude, a ceiling test writedown could negatively affect our result of operations. As ceiling test computations involve the prevailing oil and natural gas prices, as of a fixed date, it is impossible to predict the likelihood, timing and magnitude of any future impairments. To the extent finding and development costs continue to increase, we will become more susceptible to ceiling test writedowns in lower price environments. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of non-cash goodwill impairments. In conjunction with the recording of the purchase price allocation for several of our acquisitions including KCS Energy, Inc. (KCS), we recorded goodwill which represents the excess of the purchase price paid by us for those companies plus liabilities assumed, including deferred taxes recorded in connection with the respective acquisitions, over the estimated fair market value of the tangible net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment by applying a fair value based test. Goodwill is deemed impaired to the extent of any excess of its carrying amount over the residual fair value of the business. Such non-cash impairment could significantly reduce earnings during the period in which the impairment occurs, and would result in a corresponding reduction to goodwill and stockholders’ equity. We may have difficulty financing our planned capital expenditures which could adversely affect our growth. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, substantial capital expenditure and working capital needs, particularly as a result of our drilling program. Our planned capital expenditures for 2008 are expected to exceed the net cash generated by our operations. We expect to use borrowings under our senior revolving credit facility to fund capital expenditures that are in excess of our operating net cash flow and cash on hand. Our ability to borrow under our senior revolving credit facility is subject to certain conditions. If we are not be able to borrow under our senior revolving credit facility to fund our capital expenditures, we may be required to curtail our drilling, development and other activities or be forced to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis. Any such curtailment or sale could have a material adverse effect on our results and future operations. Our large inventory of undeveloped acreage may create additional economic risk. Our success is largely dependent upon our ability to develop our large inventory of undeveloped acreage in resource-style plays in Arkansas and Louisiana. To the extent our drilling results are not as successful as we anticipate and/or natural gas and oil prices decline, the return on our investment in the area may not be as attractive as we anticipate. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 