ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have substantial indebtedness and may incur substantially more debt. Higher levels of indebtedness make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. We have incurred substantial debt amounting to approximately $2.6 billion as of December 31, 2009. As a result of our indebtedness, we will need to use a portion of our cash flow to pay interest, which will reduce the 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements amount we will have available to finance our operations and other business activities and could limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Our indebtedness under our Senior Credit Agreement is at a variable interest rate, and so a rise in interest rates will generate greater interest expense to the extent we do not have applicable interest rate fluctuation hedges. The amount of our debt may also cause us to be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. We may incur substantially more debt in the future. The indentures governing our outstanding senior notes contain restrictions on our incurrence of additional indebtedness. These restrictions, however, are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, we could incur substantial additional indebtedness in compliance with these restrictions. Moreover, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness under the indentures. Our Senior Credit Agreement is a $2.0 billion facility with a borrowing base of $1.5 billion, $1.2 billion of which relates to our oil and natural gas properties and up to $300 million of which relates to our midstream assets. The $1.2 billion borrowing base attributable to our oil and natural gas properties was reduced $200 million to $1.0 billion upon the closing of the sale of the Permian Basin properties on October 30, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, we had $203 million of debt outstanding under this facility and $1.0 billion of additional borrowing capacity. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and other expenses will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors, many of which we are unable to control. If our cash flow is not sufficient to service our debt, we may be required to refinance debt, sell assets or sell additional shares of common stock on terms that we may not find attractive if it may be done at all. Further, our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants relating to our indebtedness could result in a default under that indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to drill wells on a substantial portion of our acreage. We may not be able to drill on a substantial portion of our acreage for various reasons. We may not generate or be able to raise sufficient capital to do so. Future deterioration in commodities pricing may also make drilling some acreage uneconomic. Our actual drilling activities and future drilling budget will depend on drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, regulatory approvals and other factors. In addition, any drilling activities we are able to conduct may not be successful or add additional proved reserves to our overall proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Part of our strategy involves drilling in new or emerging shale formations using horizontal drilling and completion techniques. The results of our planned drilling program in these formations are subject to more uncertainties than conventional drilling programs in more established formations and may not meet our expectations for reserves or production. The results of our drilling in new or emerging formations, such as the Haynesville, Bossier and Eagle Ford Shales, are more uncertain than drilling results in areas that are developed and have established production. Because new or emerging formations have limited or no production history, we are less able to use past drilling results in those areas to help predict our future drilling results. Further, part of our drilling strategy to maximize recoveries from the Haynesville, Bossier and Eagle Ford Shales involves the drilling of horizontal wells using completion techniques that have proven to be successful in other shale formations. Our experience with horizontal drilling in these areas to date, as well as the industry’s drilling and production history, while growing, is limited. The ultimate success of these drilling and completion strategies and techniques will be better evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are better established. Further, access to adequate gathering systems or pipeline takeaway capacity and the availability of drilling rigs and other services may be more challenging in new or emerging areas. If our drilling results are less than 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, access to gathering systems and takeaway capacity or otherwise, and/or natural gas and oil prices decline, our investment in these areas may not be as attractive as we anticipate and we could incur material writedowns of unevaluated properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage. As of December 31, 2009, we own leasehold interests in approximately 360,000 net acres in areas we believe are prospective for the Haynesville Shale and approximately 310,000 net acres in areas we believe are prospective for the Eagle Ford Shale. A large portion of the acreage is not currently held by production. Unless production in paying quantities is established on units containing these leases during their terms, these leases will expire. If our leases expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. Our drilling plans for these areas are subject to change based upon various factors, including factors that are beyond our control, including drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, and regulatory approvals. Further, some of this acreage is located in sections where we do not hold the majority of the acreage and therefore it is likely that we will not be named operator of these sections. As a non-operating leaseholder we have less control over the timing of drilling and there is therefore additional risk of expirations occurring in sections where we are not the operator. Increased drilling in the Haynesville Shale may cause pipeline and gathering system capacity constraints that may limit our ability to sell natural gas and/or receive market prices for our natural gas. The Haynesville Shale has become one of the more active natural gas plays in the United States and the wells drilled to date have reported very high initial production rates, implying potentially large reserves. If drilling in the Haynesville Shale continues to be successful, the amount of gas being produced in the area from these new wells, as well as gas produced from other existing wells, could exceed the capacity of the various gathering and intrastate or interstate transportation pipelines currently available. If this occurs it will be necessary for new interstate and intrastate pipelines and gathering systems to be built. Because of the recent volatility in natural gas prices and the current economic climate, certain pipeline projects that are planned for the Haynesville Shale area may not occur on schedule or at all because the prospective owners of these pipelines may be unable to secure the necessary financing. In addition, capital constraints could limit our ability to build intrastate gathering systems necessary to transport our natural gas to interstate pipelines. In such event, this could result in wells being shut-in awaiting a pipeline connection or capacity and/or natural gas being sold at much lower prices than those quoted on New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) or than we currently project, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We may have difficulty financing our planned capital expenditures which could adversely affect our growth. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, substantial capital expenditure and working capital needs, primarily as a result of our drilling program, particularly in the Haynesville, Bossier, and Eagle Ford Shales. We intend to continue to selectively increase our acreage position in the Haynesville, Bossier, and Eagle Ford Shales, which would require additional capital in addition to the capital necessary to drill on our existing acreage. We expect to use borrowings under our Senior Credit Agreement, proceeds from potential asset dispositions and proceeds from potential future capital markets transactions, if necessary, to fund capital expenditures that are in excess of our cash flow and cash on hand. Our Senior Credit Agreement limits our borrowings to the lesser of the borrowing base and the total commitments. Our borrowing base related to our oil and natural gas properties is $1.0 billion. Our borrowing 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements base is determined semi-annually, and may also be redetermined periodically at the discretion of the banks. Lower oil and natural gas prices may result in a reduction in our borrowing base at the next redetermination. A reduction in our borrowing base could require us to repay any indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base. Additionally, the indentures governing our senior unsecured debt contain covenants limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, including borrowings under our Senior Credit Agreement, unless we meet one of two alternative tests. The first test applies to all indebtedness and requires that after giving effect to the incurrence of additional debt the ratio of our adjusted consolidated EBITDA (as defined in our indentures) to our adjusted consolidated interest expense over the trailing four fiscal quarters will be at least 2.5 to 1.0. The second test applies only to borrowings under our Senior Credit Agreement that do not meet the first test and it limits these borrowings to the greater of a fixed sum (the most restrictive indenture limit being $100 million) and a percentage (the most restrictive indenture limit being 20%) of our adjusted consolidated net tangible assets (as defined in all of our indentures), which is determined using discounted future net revenues from proved natural gas and oil reserves as of the end of each year. Currently, we are permitted to incur additional indebtedness under these incurrence tests, but may be limited in the future. Lower natural gas and oil prices in the future could reduce our adjusted consolidated EBITDA, as well as our adjusted consolidated net tangible assets, and thus could reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Additionally, our ability to complete future equity offerings is limited by the availability of authorized common stock under our certificate of incorporation and by general market conditions. If we are not able to borrow sufficient amounts under our Senior Credit Agreement and/or are unable to raise sufficient capital to fund our capital expenditures, we may be required to curtail our drilling, development, land acquisition and other activities, which could result in a decrease in our production of oil and natural gas, forfeiture of leasehold interests if we are unable or unwilling to renew them, and could force us to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our results and future operations. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and low prices could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our revenues, profitability and future growth and the carrying value of our properties depend substantially on prevailing oil and natural gas prices. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The amount we will be able to borrow under our Senior Credit Agreement will be subject to periodic redetermination based in part on current oil and natural gas prices and on changing expectations of future prices. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can economically produce and have an adverse effect on the value of our properties. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Among the factors that can cause volatility are: • the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other producing countries to agree upon and maintain oil prices and production levels; • political instability, armed conflict or terrorist attacks, whether or not in oil or natural gas producing regions; • the level of consumer product demand; • the growth of consumer product demand in emerging markets, such as China; • labor unrest in oil and natural gas producing regions; • weather conditions, including hurricanes and other natural occurrences that affect the supply and/or demand of oil and natural gas; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • the price of foreign imports; • worldwide economic conditions; and • the availability of liquid natural gas imports. These external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to estimate future prices of oil and natural gas. The current economic and financial crisis has negatively impacted the prices for our oil and natural gas production, limited access to the credit and equity markets, increased the cost of capital, and may have other negative consequences that we cannot predict. The current economic and financial crisis in the United States and globally creates financial challenges that will grow if conditions do not improve. Although we believe our operating and capital budget for 2010 can be funded with internally generated cash flow and existing financial resources, our cash flow from operations, borrowings under our Senior Credit Agreement and cash on hand historically have not been sufficient to fund all of our expenditures, and we have relied on the capital markets and sales of non-core assets to provide us with additional capital. Our ability to access the capital markets has, at times, been limited as a result of these crises and may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital. If our cash flow from operations is less than anticipated or we are not able to successfully complete a portion of our potential asset dispositions in 2010 and our access to capital is restricted, we may be required to reduce our operating and capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our results and future operations. Economic and financial conditions may also limit the number of participants or reduce the values we are able to realize in asset sales or other transactions we may engage in to raise capital, thus making these transactions more difficult to consummate and less economic. Additionally, the current economic situation has affected the demand for oil and natural gas and has resulted in lower prices for oil and natural gas, which could have a negative impact on our revenues. Lower prices could also adversely affect the collectibility of our trade receivables. Unless we replace our reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Producing natural gas and oil reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Decline rates are typically greatest early in the productive life of a well. For instance, we currently estimate that our Haynesville Shale wells will decline approximately 80 – 85% during the first twelve months of production. Estimates of the decline rate of an oil or natural gas well are inherently imprecise, and are less precise with respect to new or emerging oil and natural gas formations with limited production histories than for more developed formations with established production histories. Our production levels and the reserves that we currently expect to recover from our wells will change if production from our existing wells declines in a different manner than we have estimated and can change under other circumstances. Thus, our future natural gas and oil reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and results of operations are highly dependent upon our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current properties and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, our cash flows and the value of our reserves may decrease, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. Estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves are uncertain and any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates will materially affect the quantities and the value of our reserves. This report on Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and the value of our reserves. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. At December 31, 2009, approximately 67% of our estimated reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. Estimates of proved undeveloped reserves are less certain than estimates of proved developed reserves. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data assumes that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop our reserves. Although we have prepared estimates of these oil and natural gas reserves and the costs associated with development of these reserves in accordance with SEC regulations, actual capital expenditures will likely vary from estimated capital expenditures, development may not occur as scheduled and actual results may not be as estimated. We depend substantially on the continued presence of key personnel for critical management decisions and industry contacts. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and key employees, particularly with respect to providing the critical management decisions and contacts necessary to manage and maintain growth within a highly competitive industry. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense, particularly in the oil and natural gas industry, and there are a limited number of people with the requisite knowledge and experience. Under these conditions, we could be unable to attract and retain these personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our business is highly competitive. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive in many respects, including identification of attractive oil and natural gas properties for acquisition, drilling and development, securing financing for such activities and obtaining the necessary equipment and personnel to conduct such operations and activities. In seeking suitable opportunities, we compete with a number of other companies, including large oil and natural gas companies and other independent operators with greater financial resources, larger numbers of personnel and facilities, and, in some cases, with more expertise. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with these entities. Our oil and natural gas activities are subject to various risks which are beyond our control. Our operations are subject to many risks and hazards incident to exploring and drilling for, producing, transporting, marketing and selling oil and natural gas. Although we may take precautionary measures, many of these risks and hazards are beyond our control and unavoidable under the circumstances. Many of these risks or hazards could materially and adversely affect our revenues and expenses, the ability of certain of our wells to produce oil and natural gas in commercial quantities, the rate of production and the economics of the development of, and our investment in the prospects in which we have or will acquire an interest. Any of these risks and hazards could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such risks and hazards include: • human error, accidents, labor force and other factors beyond our control that may cause personal injuries or death to persons and destruction or damage to equipment and facilities; 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • blowouts, fires, hurricanes, pollution and equipment failures that may result in damage to or destruction of wells, producing formations, production facilities and equipment; • unavailability of materials and equipment; • engineering and construction delays; • unanticipated transportation costs and delays; • unfavorable weather conditions; • hazards resulting from unusual or unexpected geological or environmental conditions; • environmental regulations and requirements; • accidental leakage of toxic or hazardous materials, such as petroleum liquids or drilling fluids, into the environment; • hazards resulting from the presence of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) or other contaminants in gas we produce; • changes in laws and regulations, including laws and regulations applicable to oil and natural gas activities or markets for the oil and natural gas produced; • fluctuations in supply and demand for oil and natural gas causing variations of the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production; and • the availability of alternative fuels and the price at which they become available. As a result of these risks, expenditures, quantities and rates of production, revenues and operating costs may be materially adversely affected and may differ materially from those anticipated by us. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Companies that explore for and develop, produce, sell and transport oil and natural gas in the United States are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including complex tax and environmental, health and safety laws and the corresponding regulations, and are required to obtain various permits and approvals from federal, state and local agencies. If these permits are not issued or unfavorable restrictions or conditions are imposed on our drilling activities, we may not be able to conduct our operations as planned. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with governmental regulations. Matters subject to regulation include: • water discharge and disposal permits for drilling operations; • drilling bonds; • drilling permits; • reports concerning operations; • air quality, noise levels and related permits; • spacing of wells; • rights-of-way and easements; • unitization and pooling of properties; • pipeline construction; • gathering, transportation and marketing of oil and natural gas; • taxation; and • waste transport and disposal permits and requirements. 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Failure to comply with these laws may result in the suspension or termination of operations and subject us to liabilities under administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Compliance costs can be significant. Moreover, these laws or the enforcement thereof could change in ways that substantially increase the costs of doing business. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under these laws and other environmental health and safety laws and regulations, we could be held liable for personal injuries, property damage (including site clean-up and restoration costs) and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may also result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including the assessment of natural resource damages. Some laws and regulations may impose strict as well as joint and several liability for environmental contamination, which could subject us to liability for the conduct of others or for our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time such actions were taken. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations also increase the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon natural gas and oil wells. Moreover, public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations have opposed, with some success, certain drilling projects. Part of the regulatory environment in which we operate includes, in some cases, federal requirements for performing or preparing environmental assessments, environmental impact studies and/or plans of development before commencing exploration and production activities. In addition, our activities are subject to the regulation by natural gas and oil-producing states relating to conservation practices and protection of correlative rights. These regulations affect our operations and limit the quantity of natural gas and oil we may produce and sell. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or necessary permits, the failure to obtain a permit or the receipt of a permit with excessive conditions or costs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to explore on, develop or produce our properties. Additionally, the natural gas and oil regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase the financial and managerial costs to comply with the requirements of these laws and regulations and, consequently, adversely affect our profitability. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Legislation has been proposed in Congress to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and natural gas production. We engage third parties to provide hydraulic fracturing or other well stimulation services to us in connection with many of the wells for which we are the operator. Sponsors of bills currently pending before the Senate and House of Representatives have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process may be adversely impacting drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process are impairing groundwater or causing other damage. These bills, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal or state level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. Certain states have adopted or are considering similar disclosure legislation. Possible regulation related to global warming and climate change could have an adverse effect on our operations and demand for natural gas and oil. Studies over recent years have indicated that emissions of certain gases may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere. In response to these studies, governments have begun adopting domestic and international climate change regulations that requires reporting and reductions of the emission of greenhouse gases. Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of the burning of oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products, are considered greenhouse gases. Internationally, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and the Kyoto Protocol address greenhouse gas emissions, and 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements several counties including the European Union have established greenhouse gas regulatory systems. In the United States, at the state level, many states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs or have begun considering adopting greenhouse gas regulatory programs. At the federal level, in June 2009, the United States House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, also known as the Waxman-Markey Bill or ACESA. The United States Senate passed out of committee the Clean Energy Jobs and American Power Act, also known as the Kerry-Boxer Bill. Although these bills differ in certain ways, they both contain provisions that would establish a cap and trade system for restricting greenhouse gas emissions in the United States. Under such a system, certain sources of greenhouse gas emissions would be required to obtain greenhouse gas emission “allowances” corresponding to their annual emissions of greenhouse gases. The number of emission allowances issued each year would decline as necessary to meet overall emission reduction goals. As the number of greenhouse gas emission allowances declines each year, the cost or value of allowances is expected to escalate significantly. The ultimate outcome of this federal legislative initiative remains uncertain. In addition to pending climate legislation, the EPA has issued greenhouse gas monitoring and reporting regulations that went into effect January 1, 2010, and require reporting by regulated facilities by March 2011 and annually thereafter. Beyond measuring and reporting, the EPA issued an “Endangerment Finding” under section 202(a) of the Clean Air Act, concluding greenhouse gas pollution threatens the public health and welfare of current and future generations. The finding serves as a first step to issuing regulations that would require permits for and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for certain facilities. EPA has proposed such greenhouse gas regulations and may issue final rules this year. In the courts, several decisions have been issued that may increase the risk of claims being filed by governments and private parties against companies that have significant greenhouse gas emissions. Such cases may seek to challenge air emissions permits that greenhouse gas emitters apply for and seek to force emitters to reduce their emissions or seek damages for alleged climate change impacts to the environment, people, and property. Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur increased operating and compliance costs, and could have an adverse effect on demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. The adoption of derivatives legislation by Congress could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. We enter into a number of commodity derivative contracts in order to hedge a portion of our oil and natural gas production and periodically interest expense. Congress is currently considering legislation to impose restrictions on certain transactions involving derivatives, which could affect the use of derivatives in hedging transactions. ACESA contains provisions that would expand the power of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, to regulate derivative transactions related to energy commodities, including natural gas and oil, and to mandate clearance of such derivative contracts through registered derivative clearing organizations. Under ACESA, the CFTC’s expanded authority over energy derivatives would terminate upon the adoption of general legislation covering derivative regulatory reform. The CFTC is considering whether to set limits on trading and positions in commodities with finite supply, particularly energy commodities, such as natural gas, crude oil and other energy products. The CFTC also is evaluating whether position limits should be applied consistently across all markets and participants. Separately, two committees of the House of Representatives, the Financial Services and Agriculture Committees, acted on October 15, 2009 and October 21, 2009, respectively, to adopt legislation that would impose comprehensive regulation on the over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives marketplace. This legislation would subject swap dealers and major swap participants to substantial supervision and regulation, including capital standards, margin requirements, business conduct standards, and recordkeeping and reporting requirements. It also would require central clearing for transactions entered into between swap dealers or major swap participants, and would provide the CFTC with authority to impose position limits in the OTC derivatives 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements markets. A major swap participant generally would be someone other than a dealer who maintains a “substantial” position in outstanding swaps other than swaps used for commercial hedging, or whose positions create substantial exposure to its counterparties or the system. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when Congress may act on derivatives legislation or how any climate change bill approved by the Senate would be reconciled with ACESA, any laws or regulations that may be adopted that subject us to additional capital or margin requirements relating to, or to additional restrictions on, our commodity risk management positions could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business or on the cost of our hedging activity. We may incur more taxes and certain of our projects may become uneconomic if certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development are eliminated as a result of future legislation. The current administration’s proposed budget for fiscal year 2010 contains a proposal to eliminate certain key United States federal income tax preferences currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain United States production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. The Oil Industry Tax Break Repeal Act of 2009, which was introduced in the Senate on April 23, 2009, includes many of the same proposals. It is unclear whether any of the foregoing changes will actually be enacted or how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of the budget proposal, the Senate bill or any other similar change in United States federal income tax law could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development. Any such change could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations by increasing the costs we incur, which would in turn make it uneconomic to drill some prospects if commodity prices are not sufficiently high, resulting in lower revenues and decreases in production and reserves. We cannot be certain that the insurance coverage maintained by us will be adequate to cover all losses that may be sustained in connection with all oil and natural gas activities. We maintain general and excess liability policies, which we consider to be reasonable and consistent with industry standards. These policies generally cover: • personal injury; • bodily injury; • third party property damage; • medical expenses; • legal defense costs; • pollution in some cases; • well blowouts in some cases; and • workers compensation. As is common in the oil and natural gas industry, we will not insure fully against all risks associated with our business either because such insurance is not available or because we believe the premium costs are prohibitive. A loss not fully covered by insurance could have a materially adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. There can be no assurance that the insurance coverage that we maintain will be sufficient to cover every claim made against us in the future. 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Title to the properties in which we have an interest may be impaired by title defects. We generally obtain title opinions on significant properties that we drill or acquire. However, there is no assurance that we will not suffer a monetary loss from title defects or title failure. Additionally, undeveloped acreage has greater risk of title defects than developed acreage. Generally, under the terms of the operating agreements affecting our properties, any monetary loss is to be borne by all parties to any such agreement in proportion to their interests in such property. If there are any title defects or defects in assignment of leasehold rights in properties in which we hold an interest, we will suffer a financial loss. Assets we acquire may prove to be worth less than we paid because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our recent growth is due significantly to acquisitions of exploration and production companies, producing properties and undeveloped and unevaluated leaseholds. We expect acquisitions may also contribute to our future growth. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil and natural gas prices, operating and capital costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform a review of the acquired properties which we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not inspect every well. Even when we inspect a well, we do not always discover structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise. We are generally not entitled to contractual indemnification for preclosing liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Normally, we acquire interests in properties on an “as is” basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to acquire oil and natural gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or be able to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms. Our exploration and development drilling efforts and the operation of our wells may not be profitable or achieve our targeted returns. We require significant amounts of undeveloped leasehold acreage to further our development efforts. Exploration, development, drilling and production activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that commercially productive reservoirs will not be discovered. We invest in property, including undeveloped leasehold acreage, which we believe will result in projects that will add value over time. However, we cannot guarantee that our leasehold acreage will be profitably developed, that new wells drilled by us will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such leasehold acreage or wells. Drilling for oil and natural gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit after deducting operating and other costs. In addition, wells that are profitable may not achieve our targeted rate of return. Our ability to achieve our target results are dependent upon the current and future market prices for oil and natural gas, costs associated with producing oil and natural gas and our ability to add reserves at an acceptable cost. We rely to a significant extent on 3-D seismic data and other advanced technologies in identifying leasehold acreage prospects and in conducting our exploration activities. The 3-D seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively whether oil or natural gas is present or may be produced economically. The use of 3-D seismic data and other technologies also requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies. In addition, we may not be successful in controlling our drilling and production costs to improve our overall return. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. We cannot predict the cost of drilling, and we may be forced to limit, delay or cancel drilling operations as a result of a variety of factors, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • equipment failures or accidents and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment; • adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes; and • compliance with governmental requirements. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, water, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling rig crews rise as the number of active rigs in service increases. Increasing levels of exploration and production in response to strong prices of oil and natural gas, may increase the demand for oilfield services, and the costs of these services may increase, while the quality of these services may suffer. If the unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel were particularly severe in Texas and Louisiana, we could be materially and adversely affected because our operations and properties are concentrated in those areas. In order to secure drilling rigs in these areas, we have entered into certain contracts with drilling companies that extend over several years. If demand for drilling rigs subsides during the period covered by these contracts, the price we are required to pay may be significantly more than the market rate for similar services. We depend on the skill, ability and decisions of third party operators to a significant extent. The success of the drilling, development and production of the oil and natural gas properties in which we have or expect to have a non-operating working interest is substantially dependent upon the decisions of such third-party operators and their diligence to comply with various laws, rules and regulations affecting such properties. The failure of any third-party operator to make decisions, perform their services, discharge their obligations, deal with regulatory agencies, and comply with laws, rules and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations in a proper manner with respect to properties in which we have an interest could result in material adverse consequences to our interest in such properties, including substantial penalties and compliance costs. Such adverse consequences could result in substantial liabilities to us or reduce the value of our properties, which could negatively affect our results of operations. The success of our midstream segment depends upon our ability to continually obtain new sources of natural gas supply, and any decrease in demand, price, or supplies of natural gas could reduce our midstream revenues. Our gathering systems and treating facilities are dependent on natural gas reserves and wells, from which production will naturally decline over time, which means that our cash flows associated with these facilities will also decline over time. To maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering systems, we must continually obtain new natural gas supplies. The primary factors affecting our ability to connect new supplies of natural gas and attract new customers to our gathering systems and treating facilities are the level of successful drilling activity near our gathering systems and our ability to compete for commitments of additional volumes from third party producers. Fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as oil and natural gas prices decrease. Other than our own drilling, we have no control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of our operations, the amount of reserves underlying the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, we have no control over third party producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations and the availability and cost of capital. 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we are unable to maintain or increase the throughput on our gathering systems and treating facilities because of decreased drilling activity in the areas in which we operate or because of an inability to connect new supplies of natural gas and attract new third party producers, then our midstream business and financial results could be negatively affected. We do not own all of the land on which our transportation pipelines and gathering systems are located, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our gathering systems have been constructed, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our gathering systems on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas production, we have entered into oil and natural gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our anticipated production and we may enter into additional hedging transactions in the future. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile oil and natural gas prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • our production is less than expected; • there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; or • the counterparties to our hedging agreements fail to perform under the contracts. The current economic crisis may have a negative impact on the liquidity of the counterparties to our hedging arrangements, which increases the risk of those counterparties failing to perform under those agreements. If those parties do fail to perform, we will be exposed to the price risks we had sought to mitigate and our operating results, financial position and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. We may be required to take non-cash asset writedowns if oil and natural gas prices decline. We may be required under full cost accounting rules to writedown the carrying value of oil and natural gas properties if oil and natural gas prices decline or if there are substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of development costs or deterioration in our exploration results. We utilize the full cost method of accounting for oil and natural gas exploration and development activities. Under full cost accounting, we are required by SEC regulations to perform a ceiling test each quarter. The ceiling test is an impairment test and generally establishes a maximum, or “ceiling,” of the book value of oil and natural gas properties that is equal to the expected after tax present value (discounted at 10%) of the future net cash flows from proved reserves, including the effect of cash flow hedges when hedge accounting is applied, calculated using the unweighted arithmetic average of the first day of each month for the 12-month period ending at the balance sheet date. If the net book value of oil and natural gas properties (reduced by any related net deferred income tax liability and asset retirement obligation) exceeds the ceiling limitation, SEC regulations require us to impair or “writedown” the book value of our oil and natural gas properties. Costs associated with unevaluated properties, which were $2.5 billion at December 31, 2009, are not initially subject to the ceiling test limitation. Rather, we assess all items classified as unevaluated property on a 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements quarterly basis for possible impairment or reduction in value based upon our intentions with respect to drilling on such properties, the remaining lease term, geological and geophysical evaluations, drilling results, the assignment of proved reserves, and the economic viability of development if proved reserves are assigned. These factors are significantly influenced by our expectations regarding future commodity prices, development costs, and access to capital at acceptable cost. During any period in which these factors indicate an impairment, the cumulative drilling costs incurred to date for such property and all or a portion of the associated leasehold costs are transferred to the full cost pool and are then subject to amortization and the ceiling test limitation. Accordingly, a significant change in these factors, many of which are beyond our control, may shift a significant amount of cost from unevaluated properties into the full cost pool that is subject to amortization and the ceiling test limitation. As of December 31, 2009, using the West Texas Intermediate unweighted 12-month average price of $57.65 per Bbl for oil and the Henry Hub unweighted 12-month average of $3.87 per Mmbtu for natural gas, our net book value of oil and gas properties exceeded the ceiling amount. As a result, we recorded a full cost ceiling impairment before income taxes of approximately $106 million, $65 million after taxes. The Company also recorded full cost ceiling impairments before tax at March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 of $1.7 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively. As ceiling test computations depend upon the calculated unweighted arithmetic average prices, it is impossible to predict the likelihood, timing and magnitude of any future impairments. Depending on the magnitude, a ceiling test writedown could negatively affect our results of operations. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of non-cash goodwill impairments. In conjunction with the recording of the purchase price allocation for several of our acquisitions, we recorded goodwill which represents the excess of the purchase price paid by us for those companies plus liabilities assumed, including deferred taxes recorded in connection with the respective acquisitions, over the estimated fair market value of the tangible net assets acquired. The Financial Accounting Standard Board’s (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 350, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (ASC 350) requires that intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, be evaluated on an annual basis for impairment or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that could potentially result in impairment. The goodwill impairment test requires the allocation of goodwill and all other assets and liabilities to reporting units. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the book value (including goodwill), then goodwill is reduced to its implied fair value and the amount of the writedown is charged against earnings. The assumptions we used in calculating our reporting unit fair value at the time of the test include our market capitalization and discounted future cash flows based on estimated reserves and production, future costs and future oil and natural gas prices. Adverse changes to any of these factors could lead to an impairment of all or a portion of our goodwill in future periods. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 