Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and results of operations are subject to numerous risks, uncertainties and other factors that you should be aware of, some of which are described below. The risks, uncertainties and other factors described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. 17 Any of the risks, uncertainties and other factors could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline substantially. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition We have a history of losses and will incur additional losses. We are a development stage company with a limited history of operations, and do not expect sufficient revenues to support our operation in the immediately foreseeable future. In the fiscal year ended July 31, 2011, we earned revenues of $291,628 which were primarily from sales of our consumer/over-the-counter consumer products. In the fiscal year ended July 31, 2010, we received modest revenues of approximately $1,172,611 which were also primarily from sales of our consumer/over-the-counter products. We do not expect to receive any revenues in Ecuador until we enter into a definitive manufacturing and distribution agreement with our business partner there. While we have entered into a licensing and distribution agreement with a leading Indian-based pharmaceutical company and insulin distributor, we do not anticipate recognizing revenue from sales of Generex Oral-lyn™ in India in 2011, as we have to complete an in-country clinical study before the product can be offered for commercial sale in India. We have entered in to a sub-distribution agreement in Lebanon, but do not expect any significant revenue from the launch of the product in that country in 2011 or 2012. To date, we have not been profitable and our accumulated net loss available to shareholders was $347,744,756 at July 31, 2011. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development, including clinical trials, and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. While we seek to attain profitability, we cannot be sure that we will ever achieve product and other revenue sufficient for us to attain this objective. With the exception of Generex Oral-lyn™, which has received regulatory approval in Ecuador, India (subject to the completion of an in-country study), Lebanon and Algeria, and our consumer/over-the-counter glucose products, our product candidates are in research or early stages of pre-clinical and clinical development. We will need to conduct substantial additional research, development and clinical trials. We will also need to receive necessary regulatory clearances both in the United States and foreign countries and obtain meaningful patent protection for and establish freedom to commercialize each of our product candidates. We must also complete further clinical trials and seek regulatory approvals for Generex Oral-lyn™ in countries outside of Ecuador, India, Lebanon and Algeria. We cannot be sure that we will obtain required regulatory approvals, or successfully research, develop, commercialize, manufacture and market any other product candidates. We expect that these activities, together with future general and administrative activities, will result in significant expenses for the foreseeable future. Our independent auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern as of July 31, 2011. To date, we have not been profitable and our accumulated net loss available to shareholders was $347,744,756 at July 31, 2011, and our consolidated balance sheet reflects a stockholders’ deficiency of $8,442,136. We received a report from our independent auditors for the year ended July 31, 2011 that includes an explanatory paragraph describing an uncertainty as to Generex’s ability to continue as a going concern. Management believes that we need to secure financing to continue our operations. We will need additional capital. To progress in product development or marketing, we will need additional capital which may not be available to us. This may delay our progress in product development. We will require funds in excess of our existing cash resources: · To proceed with the development of our buccal insulin product; · To finance the research and development of new products based on our buccal delivery and immunomedicine technologies, including clinical testing relating to new products; · To finance the research and development activities of our subsidiary Antigen with respect to other potential technologies; · To finance the licensing or sale of developed products to major pharmaceutical companies; · To develop or acquire other technologies or other lines of business; · To finance general and administrative activities that are not related to specific products under development; · To effect our strategic development plan; and · To otherwise carry on business. 18 In the past, we have funded most of our development and other costs through equity (including convertible debt) financing. Our current cash position will not be sufficient to meet our working capital needs for the next twelve months based on the pace of our planned activities. Therefore, we will require additional funds to support our working capital requirements and any expansion or other activities, or will need to significantly reduce our clinical trials and other planned activities. Because our operating and capital resources are insufficient to meet future requirements, we will have to raise additional funds in the near future to continue the development and commercialization of our products. Unforeseen problems, including materially negative developments in our clinical trials or in general economic conditions, could interfere with our ability to raise additional equity capital or materially adversely affect the terms upon which such funding is available. It is possible that we will be unable to obtain additional funding as and when we need it. If we were unable to obtain additional funding as and when needed, we could be forced to delay the progress of certain development efforts. Such a scenario poses risks. For example, our ability to bring a product to market and obtain revenues could be delayed, our competitors could develop products ahead of us, and/or we could be forced to relinquish rights to technologies, products or potential products. Our research and development and marketing efforts may be highly dependent on corporate collaborators and other third parties who may not devote sufficient time, resources and attention to our programs, which may limit our efforts to successfully develop and market potential products. Because we have limited resources, we have sought to enter into collaboration agreements with other pharmaceutical companies that will assist us in developing, testing, obtaining governmental approval for and commercializing products using our buccal delivery and immunomedicine technologies. Any collaborator with whom we may enter into such collaboration agreements may not support fully our research and commercial interests since our program may compete for time, attention and resources with such collaborator's internal programs. Therefore, these collaborators may not commit sufficient resources to our program to move it forward effectively, or that the program will advance as rapidly as it might if we had retained complete control of all research, development, regulatory and commercialization decisions. Risks Related to Our Technologies With the exception of Generex Oral-lyn™ and Glucose RapidSpray™, our technologies and products are at an early stage of development and we cannot expect significant revenues in respect thereof in the foreseeable future. We have no products approved for commercial sale at the present time with the exception of Generex Oral-lyn™ in Ecuador, Lebanon, Algeria and India(subject to further study), and our glucose spray which are available in certain retail outlets in the United States and Canada and in the Middle East. To be profitable, we must not only successfully research, develop and obtain regulatory approval for our products under development, but also manufacture, introduce, market and distribute them once development is completed. We have yet to manufacture, market and distribute these products on a large-scale commercial basis, and we expect to receive only modest revenues, if any, from product sales in fiscal year 2012. We may not be successful in one or more of these stages of the development or commercialization of our products, and/or any of the products we develop may not be commercially viable. Until we can establish that they are commercially viable products, we will not receive significant revenues from ongoing operations. Until we receive regulatory approval to sell our pharmaceutical products in additional countries, our ability to generate revenues from operations may be limited and those revenues may be insufficient to sustain operations. Many factors impact our ability to obtain approvals for commercially viable products. Our only pharmaceutical product that has been approved for commercial sale by drug regulatory authorities is our oral insulin spray formulation, and that approval was obtained in Ecuador, Lebanon, Algeria and India (subject to the completion of an in-country study). We have begun the regulatory approval process for our oral insulin, buccal morphine and fentanyl products in other countries, and we have initiated late stage clinical trials of Generex Oral-lyn™ at clinical trial sites in North America according to the Phase III clinical plan. Our immunomedicine products are in the pre-clinical stage of development, with the exception of a Phase II trial in human patients with stage II HER-2/neu positive breast cancer (U.S.), a Phase I trial in human patients with prostate cancer (Athens, Greece) completed in August 2009, a Phase I trial in human patients with breast or ovarian cancer (U.S.) and a Phase I trial in human volunteers of a peptide vaccine for use against the H5N1 avian influenza virus (Beirut, Lebanon). Pre-clinical and clinical trials of our products, and the manufacturing and marketing of our technologies, are subject to extensive, costly and rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the United States, Canada and other countries. The process of obtaining required regulatory approvals from the FDA and other regulatory authorities often takes many years, is expensive and can vary significantly based on the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates. For these reasons, it is possible we will not receive regulatory approval for any prescription pharmaceutical product candidate in any countries other than Ecuador, Lebanon, Algeria and India. 19 In addition, we cannot be sure when or if we will be permitted by regulatory agencies to undertake additional clinical trials or to commence any particular phase of clinical trials. Because of this, statements in this Annual Report regarding the expected timing of clinical trials cannot be regarded as actual predictions of when we will obtain regulatory approval for any "phase" of clinical trials. Delays in obtaining United States or other foreign approvals for our pharmaceutical products could result in substantial additional costs to us, and, therefore, could adversely affect our ability to compete with other companies. If regulatory approval is ultimately granted in any countries other than Ecuador, Lebanon, Algeria and India, the approval may place limitations on the intended use of the product we wish to commercialize, and may restrict the way in which we are permitted to market the product. Due to legal and factual uncertainties regarding the scope and protection afforded by patents and other proprietary rights, we may not have meaningful protection from competition. Our long-term success will substantially depend upon our ability to protect our proprietary technologies from infringement, misappropriation, discovery and duplication and avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others. Our patent rights and the patent rights of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies in general, are highly uncertain and include complex legal and factual issues. Because of this, our pending patent applications may not be granted. These uncertainties also mean that any patents that we own or will obtain in the future could be subject to challenge, and even if not challenged, may not provide us with meaningful protection from competition. Due to our financial uncertainties, we may not possess the financial resources necessary to enforce our patents. Patents already issued to us or our pending applications may become subject to dispute, and any dispute could be resolved against us. Because a substantial number of patents have been issued in the field of alternative drug delivery and because patent positions can be highly uncertain and frequently involve complex legal and factual questions, the breadth of claims obtained in any application or the enforceability of our patents cannot be predicted. Consequently, we do not know whether any of our pending or future patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or, to the extent patents have been issued or will be issued, whether these patents will be subject to further proceedings limiting their scope, will provide significant proprietary protection or competitive advantage, or will be circumvented or invalidated. Also because of these legal and factual uncertainties, and because pending patent applications are held in secrecy for varying periods in the United States and other countries, even after reasonable investigation we may not know with certainty whether any products that we (or a licensee) may develop will infringe upon any patent or other intellectual property right of a third party. For example, we are aware of certain patents owned by third parties that such parties could attempt to use in the future in efforts to affect our freedom to practice some of the patents that we own or have applied for. Based upon the science and scope of these third-party patents, we believe that the patents that we own or have applied for do not infringe any such third-party patents; however, we cannot know for certain whether we could successfully defend our position, if challenged. We may incur substantial costs if we are required to defend our intellectual property in patent suits brought by third parties. These legal actions could seek damages and seek to enjoin testing, manufacturing and marketing of the accused product or process. In addition to potential liability for significant damages, we could be required to obtain a license to continue to manufacture or market the accused product or process. Risks Related to Marketing of Our Potential Products We may not become, or stay, profitable even if our pharmaceutical products are approved for sale. Even if we obtain regulatory approval to market our oral insulin product outside of Ecuador, India, Lebanon and Algeria or to market any other prescription pharmaceutical product candidate, many factors may prevent the product from ever being sold in commercial quantities. Some of these factors are beyond our control, such as: · acceptance of the formulation or treatment by health care professionals and diabetic patients; · the availability, effectiveness and relative cost of alternative diabetes or immunomedicine treatments that may be developed by competitors; and · the availability of third-party (i.e. insurer and governmental agency) reimbursements. We will not receive significant revenues from Generex Oral-lyn™ or any of our other pharmaceuticals products that may receive regulatory approval until we can successfully manufacture, market and distribute them in the relevant markets. Similarly, the successful commercialization of our consumer/over-the-counter glucose spray product line may be hindered by manufacturing, marketing and distribution limitations. We have to depend upon others for marketing and distribution of our products, and we may be forced to enter into contracts limiting the benefits we may receive and the control we have over our products. We intend to rely on collaborative arrangements with one or more other companies that possess strong marketing and distribution resources to perform these functions for us. We may not be able to enter into beneficial contracts, and we may be forced to enter into contracts for the marketing and distribution of our products that substantially limit the potential benefits to us from commercializing these products. In addition, we will not have the same control over marketing and distribution that we would have if we conducted these functions ourselves. 20 We may not be able to compete with treatments now being marketed and developed, or which may be developed and marketed in the future by other companies. Our products will compete with existing and new therapies and treatments. We are aware of a number of companies currently seeking to develop alternative means of delivering insulin, as well as new drugs intended to replace insulin therapy at least in part. We are also aware of a number of companies currently seeking to develop alternative means of enhancing and suppressing peptides. In the longer term, we also face competition from companies that seek to develop cures for diabetes and other malignant, infectious, autoimmune and allergic diseases through techniques for correcting the genetic deficiencies that underlie some of these diseases. Numerous pharmaceutical, biotechnology and drug delivery companies, hospitals, research organizations, individual scientists and nonprofit organizations are engaged in the development of alternatives to our technologies. Some of these companies have greater research and development capabilities, experience, manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we do. Collaborations or mergers between large pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with competing drug delivery technologies could enhance our competitors’ financial, marketing and other resources. Developments by other drug delivery companies could make our products or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies, obtaining FDA approval for products or gaining market acceptance more rapidly than we can. Some of our most significant competitors, Pfizer, Eli Lilly, and Novo Nordisk, have discontinued development and/or sale of their inhalable forms of insulin. Unlike inhaled insulin formulations, Generex Oral-lyn™ is a buccally absorbed formulation with no residual pulmonary deposition. We believe that our buccal delivery technology offers several advantages, including the ease of use, portability, avoidance of pulmonary inhalation and safety profile. Furthermore, insulin administered through the Generex Oral-lyn™ RapidMist™ technology is absorbed directly into the blood stream and not only acts rapidly, but returns to baseline quickly, thereby minimizing the chance of developing hypoglycemia. If government programs and insurance companies do not agree to pay for or reimburse patients for our pharmaceutical products, our success will be impacted. Sales of our oral insulin formulation in Ecuador, Lebanon, Algeria and India and our other potential pharmaceutical products in other markets will depend in part on the availability of reimbursement by third-party payers such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Third-party payers often challenge the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. Governmental approval of health care products does not guarantee that these third-party payers will pay for the products. Even if third-party payers do accept our product, the amounts they pay may not be adequate to enable us to realize a profit. Legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before our products are approved for marketing and any such changes could further limit reimbursement. Risks Related to Potential Liabilities We face significant product liability risks, which may have a negative effect on our financial condition. The administration of drugs or treatments to humans, whether in clinical trials or commercially, can result in product liability claims whether or not the drugs or treatments are actually at fault for causing an injury. Furthermore, our pharmaceutical products may cause, or may appear to have caused, serious adverse side effects (including death) or potentially dangerous drug interactions that we may not learn about or understand fully until the drug or treatment has been administered to patients for some time. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and may result in large judgments or settlements against us, which could have a severe negative effect on our financial condition. We maintain product liability insurance in amounts we believe to be commercially reasonable for our current level of activity and exposure, but claims could exceed our coverage limits. Furthermore, due to factors in the insurance market generally and our own experience, we may not always be able to purchase sufficient insurance at an affordable price. Even if a product liability claim is not successful, the adverse publicity and time and expense of defending such a claim may interfere with our business. Risks Related to the Market for Our Common Stock Our stock price is below $5.00 per share and is treated as a “penny stock”, which places restrictions on broker-dealers recommending the stock for purchase. Our common stock is defined as “penny stock” under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Exchange Act, and the rules promulgated thereunder. The SEC has adopted regulations that define “penny stock” to include common stock that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. These rules include the following requirements: 21 · broker-dealers must deliver, prior to the transaction a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market; · broker-dealers must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer and its registered representative; · broker-dealers must disclose current quotations for the securities; · if a broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealers presumed control over the market; and · a broker-dealer must furnish its customers with monthly statements disclosing recent price information for all penny stocks held in the customer’s account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Additional sales practice requirements are imposed on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and must have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. If our common stock remains subject to these penny stock rules these disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for our common stock. As a result, fewer broker-dealers may be willing to make a market in our stock, which could affect a shareholder’s ability to sell their shares. The price of our common stock may be affected by a limited trading volume, may fluctuate significantly and may not reflect the actual value of our business. There may be a limited public market for our common stock on the over the counter bulletin board market, and there can be no assurance that an active trading market will continue. An absence of an active trading market could adversely affect our stockholders’ ability to sell our common stock in short time periods, or at all. Our common stock has experienced, and is likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations that could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, we believe that factors, such as possible quarterly fluctuations in our financial results, changes in the overall economy and the volatility of the financial markets, could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. Thus, the price at which shares of our common stock may trade from time to time may not reflect the actual value of our business or the actual value of our common stock. The price of our common stock may be volatile. There may be wide fluctuations in the price of our common stock. These fluctuations may be caused by several factors including: · announcements of research activities and technology innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · changes in market valuation of companies in our industry generally; · variations in operating results; · changes in governmental regulations; · developments in patent and other proprietary rights; · public concern as to the safety of drugs or treatments developed by us or others; · results of clinical trials of our products or our competitors' products; and · regulatory action or inaction on our products or our competitors' products. From time to time, we may hire companies to assist us in pursuing investor relations strategies to generate increased volumes of investment in our common stock. Such activities may result, among other things, in causing the price of our common stock to increase on a short-term basis. Furthermore, the stock market generally and the market for stocks of companies with lower market capitalizations and small biopharmaceutical companies, like us, have from time to time experienced, and likely will again experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. During the third calendar quarter of 2008 and continuing to date, we, like many other publicly traded companies, have experienced a sharp decline in the price of our stock attributable to concerns about the current global recession. 22 Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation could delay or prevent the acquisition or sale of our business. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation permits our Board of Directors to designate new series of preferred stock and issue those shares without any vote or action by our stockholders. Such newly authorized and issued shares of preferred stock could contain terms that grant special voting rights to the holders of such shares that make it more difficult to obtain stockholder approval for an acquisition of our business or increase the cost of any such acquisition. Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may prohibit us from making required payments with respect to our Series A 9% convertible preferred stock, which default may constitute a violation of our certificate of incorporation or a breach of our contractual obligations to the holders of our preferred stock. We are incorporated in the State of Delaware and are subject to the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”). Section 170 of the DGCL provides, among other things, that a Delaware corporation may declare and pay dividends upon shares of its capital stock out of its surplus, as defined in and computed in accordance with Sections 154 and 244 of the DGCL. As of the date hereof, we have 620 shares of our Series A 9% convertible preferred stock outstanding. As of the date hereof, we have sufficient surplus to make dividend payments with respect to our outstanding Series A 9% convertible preferred stock, as well as sufficient surplus to make the make-whole payments that may be due to the holders of our Series A 9% convertible preferred stock, should such make-whole payments be deemed a dividend under the DGCL. However, our surplus will decrease as we spend our capital on operational activities, unless our spending is offset by capital-raising transactions. If our surplus is less than then-due dividend payments, including make-whole payments if they are deemed a dividend under the DGCL, we will be prohibited by the DGCL from making the dividend or make-whole payment, which may constitute a violation of our certificate of incorporation or a breach of our contractual obligations to the holders of our Series A 9% convertible preferred stock. Our recent equity financing will dilute current stockholders and could prevent the acquisition or sale of our business. The equity financing transactions into which we have recently entered have and will dilute current stockholders. Currently approximately 99,955,190 shares of common stock are issuable upon exercise of the warrants that we issued in a private placement in March 2008, in the registered direct offerings conducted in June, August and September 2009, in connection with the sales to Seaside 88, LP in April, May and June 2010, in the registered direct offering in January to April 2011 and in the registered direct offering in July 2011, which represents approximately 32% of the shares of common stock currently outstanding. Assuming the holders of the warrants convert and exercise all of the warrants into shares of common stock, the number of shares of issued and outstanding common stock will increase significantly, and current stockholders will own a smaller percentage of the outstanding common stock of Generex. The issuance of shares of common stock pursuant to the warrants will also have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and may adversely affect the market price of the common stock. In addition, the issuance of shares of common stock upon exercise of the warrants issued in the March 2008 private placement, the registered direct offerings in June, August and September 2009 and in connection with the sales to Seaside in April, May and June 2010, in the registered direct offering in January to April 2011 and in the registered direct offering in July 2011, could have an anti-takeover effect because such issuance will make it more difficult for, or discourage an attempt by, a party to obtain control of Generex by tender offer or other means. The issuance of common stock upon the exercise of the warrants will increase the number of shares entitled to vote, increase the number of votes required to approve a change of control of the company, and dilute the interest of a party attempting to obtain control of the company. If we raise funds through one or more additional equity financings in the future, it will have a further dilutive effect on existing holders of our shares by reducing their percentage ownership. The shares may be sold at a time when the market price is low because we need the funds. This will dilute existing holders more than if our stock price was higher. In addition, equity financings normally involve shares sold at a discount to the current market price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 