ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks and other information contained in or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K when evaluating our business and financial condition. Although the risks described below are the risks that we believe are material, there may also be risks of which we are currently unaware, or that we currently regard as immaterial based on the information available to us that later prove to be material. These risks may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Our Business Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to engineer and produce new and more sophisticated products to meet the needs of our customers. We believe that the commercial aircraft, military and other markets in which we operate are changing toward more sophisticated manufacturing and system-integration techniques and capabilities using composite as well as metal materials. Accordingly, our future success depends to a significant extent on our ability to acquire and/or develop such sophisticated techniques and capabilities to meet the needs of our customers and to bring those products to market quickly and at cost-effective prices. See “Item 1. Business – Our Strategy.” Our long-term success and growth strategy depend on our senior management and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. We have written employment agreements with certain of our senior management that expire on January 1, 2011. We also maintain key man life insurance policies on the lives of certain members of senior management. The loss of service of one or more of our senior management personnel, however, could result in a loss of leadership and an inability to successfully pursue our long-term success and growth strategy. Because of the highly specialized and complex nature of our business, our success and future growth also depends on management’s ability to attract, hire, train, integrate and retain skilled personnel in all areas of our business. Competition for such personnel is intense, and our inability to adequately staff our operations with skilled personnel could render us less efficient and decrease our rate of production. For example, our Engineering Services segment competes in a highly competitive market to attract and retain highly qualified and well-trained engineers. Such a competitive market could put upward pressure on labor costs for engineering talent. Although we have historically been able to pass through increases in engineering labor costs to our customers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. In addition, rising costs associated with certain employee benefits, in particular employee health coverage, could limit our ability to provide certain employee benefits in the future. If we are unable to provide a competitive employee benefits package, recruiting and retaining qualified personnel may become more difficult. 18 Our long-term growth strategy depends on our ability to maintain a robust and effective supply chain management system. As we pursue our long-term growth strategy, we will be providing to our customers increasingly sophisticated components, value-added services and design-build programs. In addition, many OEMs are moving toward developing strategic partnerships with their larger suppliers, which are providing purchasing, warehousing and assembly services. The increased complexity of our products, the expected increased outsourcing of non-core activities and the value-added services we are providing to our customers require us to maintain and manage an effective supply chain to assure timely delivery to us of quality components needed to meet our delivery schedules. Failure to continue to develop this capability and to procure from our suppliers quality components on a timely basis could decrease customer satisfaction, and thus our competitiveness, and cou ld also result in lost revenue due to contractual penalties or lost sales. Access to funding through the capital markets is essential to the execution of our business plan and, if we are unable to maintain such access, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our ability to invest in our businesses, fund our operations and contractual commitments, make strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations requires access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support short-term borrowings. The current economic environment has resulted in tightened credit markets, making borrowing more difficult. If we are unable to continue to access the capital markets as a result of, for example, disruption or declines in the capital markets and/or a decline in our financial performance or outlook or credit ratings, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Sales to a limited number of customers represent a significant portion of our revenues and our long-term agreements with these customers are generally terminable upon written notice. As of December 31, 2009, 62% of our aggregate sales were dependent upon relationships with four major customers: Spirit AeroSystems, The Boeing Company, Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation and Aviation Partners Boeing. Although a majority of our sales, including sales to these customers, are made pursuant to long-term agreements, these agreements are generally terminable upon written notice by the customer and typically do not require the customer to purchase any specific quantity of products. As a result, our sales under these agreements may not continue for the full term of the agreements or be consistent with historical sales levels. Additionally, the loss of any one of these customers, or a significant reduction in the amount of orders received from any one of these customers, could cause a significant decrease in our net sales and p rofitability. We anticipate that a small number of large customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. See “Item 1. Business – Customers and Products & Services – Customers.” We may experience cost over-runs related to orders for new products and changes to existing products, and we may be unable to recoup the resulting increased costs. We generally sell our components, kits and assemblies under multi-year firm agreements on a fixed-price basis, regardless of our production costs. As a result, factors such as inaccurate pricing, manufacturing inefficiencies, start-up costs and increases in the cost of labor, materials or overhead may result in cost over-runs and losses on those agreements. We may not succeed in obtaining the agreement of a customer to reprice a particular product, and we may not be able to recoup previous losses resulting from such issues as incomplete or inaccurate engineering data or out-of-tolerance tooling. 19 Our Engineering Services segment generally provides its services under time and material arrangements. However, our strategic initiative to provide design-build capabilities may result in development programs that result in fixed-price arrangements. Fixed-price development work inherently has more uncertainty than work pursuant to production contracts and, therefore, more variability in the estimates of the cost to complete such work. Development programs have very complex designs, and as technical or quality issues arise, we may experience schedule delays and higher costs to complete. Management uses its best judgment to estimate the cost to perform the work and the price we will eventually be paid. While we believe the cost and price estimates incorporated in the financial statements are a ppropriate, future events could result in either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates. The Company’s failure to meet quality or delivery expectations of customers could adversely affect our business and financial results. The Company’s customers have increased, and are expected to increase in the future, their expectations with respect to the on-time delivery and quality of the Company’s products. In some cases, the Company does not presently satisfy these customer expectations. If the Company fails to meet the quality or delivery expectations of its customers, this failure could lead to the loss of one or more significant customers of the Company. Demand for our defense-related products depends upon government spending. A material portion of our sales (27.2% in 2009) is derived from the military market. The military market is largely dependent upon government budgets, particularly the U.S. defense budget. The funding of government programs is subject to Congressional appropriation. Although multi-year contracts may be authorized in connection with major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may be expected to continue for several years. Consequently, programs, including those that require our components, may be only partially funded or may never enter full-scale production as expected. As a result, future U.S. defense spending may not be allocated to programs that would benefit our business or at levels that we had anticipated. A decrease in levels of defense spending or the government’ s termination of, or failure to fully fund, one or more of the contracts for the programs in which we participate would adversely impact our revenues and cash flow. Most U.S. government contracts for which we subcontract can be terminated by the U.S. government either for its convenience or if the prime contractor defaults by failing to perform under the contract. In addition, the prime contractor typically has the right to terminate our subcontract for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the subcontract. Termination for convenience provisions generally permit us to recover only our costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and reasonable profit, which may be different from what we bid or our historical profit rates, on the work completed prior to termination. Termination for default provisions generally provide for the subcontractor to be liable for excess costs incurred by the prime contractor in procuring undelivered items from another source. We may not realize all of the sales expected from our existing backlog. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $219 million of order backlog. We consider backlog to be firm customer orders for future delivery. From time to time, our OEM customers provide projections of components and assemblies that they anticipate purchasing in the future under new and existing programs. These projections are not included in our backlog unless we have received a firm purchase order or order commitment from our customers. Our customers may have the right, under certain circumstances and with certain penalties or consequences, to terminate, reduce or defer firm orders that we have in backlog. If our customers terminate, reduce or defer firm orders, we may be protected from certain costs and losses, but our sales will nevertheless be adversely affected. 20 Given the nature of our industry and customers, there is always a risk that orders may be cancelled or rescheduled due to fluctuations in our customers’ business needs, purchasing budgets or inventory management practices. Moreover, our realization of sales from new and existing programs is inherently subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties, including the possibility that our customers will not launch programs on time, or at all, and the number of units that our customers will actually produce may change or the timing of production may be altered. Also, until firm orders are pledged, our customers generally have the right to discontinue a program or replace us with another supplier at any time without penalty. Our failure to realize sales from new and existing programs would adversely impact our net sales, res ults of operations and cash flow. We may be required to risk our capital to continue existing partnerships or develop new strategic partnerships with OEMs. Many OEMs are moving toward developing strategic, and sometimes risk-sharing, partnerships with their larger suppliers. Each strategic partner provides an array of integrated services, including purchasing, warehousing and assembly for OEM customers. We have been designated as a strategic partner by some OEMs and are striving to become a strategic partner of other OEMs. In order to maintain our current strategic partnerships and establish new ones, we will likely need to expand our existing capacities or capabilities. We may not, however, have the financial ability or technical expertise to do so. We use sophisticated equipment that is not easily repaired or replaced, and therefore equipment failures could cause us to be unable to meet quality or delivery expectations of our customers. Many of our manufacturing processes are dependent on sophisticated equipment used to meet the strict tolerance requirements of our customers. Because sophisticated equipment generally is not easily repaired or replaced, unexpected failures of this equipment could result in production delays or the manufacturing of defective products. Our ability to meet the expectations of our customers with respect to on-time delivery of quality products is critical. Our failure to meet the quality or delivery expectations of our customers could lead to the loss of one or more of our significant customers. The use by end-users of the product platforms into which our components are integrated could expose us to product liability claims. We may be exposed to possible claims of personal injury, death, grounding costs, property damage or other liabilities that result from the failure or malfunction of component or assembly fabricated or designed by us. We currently have in place policies for products liability and premises insurance, which we believe provide adequate coverage in amounts and on terms that are generally consistent with industry practice. Nevertheless, to the extent a claim is made against us that is not covered in whole or in part by our current insurance, we may be subject to a material loss. Moreover, any claims that are covered by our policies would likely cause our premiums to increase, and we might not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage levels in the future. Risks associated with foreign operations could adversely impact the Company. The Company operates a facility in Mexico. Doing business in foreign countries is subject to various risks, including political instability, local economic conditions, foreign government regulatory requirements, trade tariffs and the potentially limited availability of skilled labor in proximity to the Company’s facilities. The Company has been operating its Mexican facility through a shelter arrangement under a contractual arrangement with a Mexican company. If the Company is unable to renew this arrangement in future years on terms satisfactory to it, the Company may incur increased labor costs and/or experience a disruption in its operations in Mexico. 21 Our facilities are located in regions that are affected by natural disasters. Several of our facilities are located in regions that have a higher than average risk of earthquake activity, and one of our facilities has experienced damage due to floods. Although we maintain earthquake and flood loss insurance where necessary, an earthquake, flood or other natural disaster could disrupt our business, result in significant recovery costs and cause our productivity and profits to decrease. We may be required to record material impairment charges for goodwill and other intangible assets, which would reduce our net income and earnings per share. Current accounting standards require a periodic review of goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment in value if circumstances indicate that the carrying amount will not be recoverable. In assessing the recoverability of our goodwill and other intangible assets, management is required to make certain critical estimates and assumptions, particularly as to manufacturing efficiency, the achievement of reductions in operating costs, and increased sales and backlog. If any of these or other estimates and assumptions are not realized in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for goodwill and other intangible assets, which charges would reduce net income and earnings per share. Risks associated with acquisitions could result in increased costs and production inefficiencies. A key element of our growth strategy continues to be expansion of our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses involved in the aerospace industry and strategic acquisitions that will provide us with access to new industries, product lines and technology. Our ability to expand by acquisition is dependent upon, and may be limited by, the availability of suitable acquisition candidates, our capital resources and available credit which is currently less certain. Acquisition risks include: · difficulties in assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; · difficulties associated with implementing and integrating new product lines and meeting new tolerance requirements; · difficulties in accurately pricing new products; · the failure to realize potential cost savings or other financial and strategic benefits; · the incurrence of substantial unanticipated integration costs; · the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies; · the incurrence of substantial, additional indebtedness in funding such acquisitions; · significant strain on our managerial, financial and other resources; and · potential goodwill and intangible asset impairment. Furthermore, although we will investigate the business operations and assets of entities that we acquire, there may be liabilities that we fail or are unable to discover and for which we, as a successor owner or operator, may be liable. Also, the necessity of integrating our internal controls over financial reporting with businesses acquired by us in order to meet the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes - Oxley Act of 2002 will add additional cost and expense to acquisitions and expose us to the risk that we may not be successful in integrating our internal controls over financial reporting with that of the acquired business on a timely basis. 22 Certain newer aircraft platforms include fewer metal products and could, over time, limit our ability to grow. Newer military aircraft, such as the Lockheed Martin F-35 Series, and newer aircraft designs for large commercial aircraft, such as the Boeing 787, include more composite and other non-metal components than previous models. Additionally, redesigns of existing platforms could include greater amounts of non-metal components. Although we are in the process of developing and seeking acquisitions of non-metallic production capabilities, we currently do not have significant capability to produce non-metal components. If we are unsuccessful in developing or acquiring such production expertise, the trend toward the use of non-metal components could limit our opportunities for new work, cause the loss of certain existing work and increase the competitive environment with other suppliers of metal components. Anti-takeover statutes and anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit your opportunity to sell your shares at a premium. Our restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain certain provisions that reduce the probability of a change of control or acquisition of our company. These provisions include, among other things: · the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series with such rights, obligations and preferences as the Board of Directors may determine, without any further vote or action by our shareholders; · advanced notice procedures for shareholders to nominate candidates for election of directors and for shareholders to submit proposals for consideration at shareholders’ meetings; · the staggered election of our directors; and · restrictions on the ability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders. In addition, we are subject to Section 459 of the General and Business Corporation Law of Missouri, which, under certain circumstances, may prohibit a business combination with any shareholder holding 20% or more of our outstanding voting power. This provision may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing certain potential acquisitions or a change of control of the Company. If our directors and executive officers choose to act together, they will exercise effective voting control over matters requiring approval by our shareholders. As of December 31, 2009, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 25% of our common stock. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, would be able to exert significant influence on all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of our directors and, to a lesser extent, any merger, sale of assets or other change of control transaction. We may sell more shares of common stock which could result in dilution and cause the stock price of our common stock to decline. Our business plan anticipates the need for new capital to support the continued development of our design-build program and other more sophisticated product offerings through internal investment or acquisition. We may raise new capital through debt (including debt securities and/or bank borrowings), the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock. Should we chose to raise capital by issuing or selling shares of our common stock (or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of common stock) for any reason, such issuance could have a dilutive effect on the holders of our common stock and/or a material negative impact on the market price of our common stock. 23 OEMs in the aerospace industry have significant pricing leverage over suppliers such as the Company, and may be able to achieve price reductions over time, which could adversely impact our profitability. There is substantial and continuing pressure from OEMs in the aerospace industry on suppliers such as the Company to reduce prices for products and services. Such pricing pressure has intensified over the last 12 months due to excess capacity in the industry and the availablity of competitive pricing from businesses in low-cost labor areas. If we are required to provide price reductions to our customers and are unable to offset these effects through operating cost reductions and other methods, our gross margins, profitability and cash flows could be reduced. Risks Related to Our Industry We are subject to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry, and any future downturn in the aerospace industry or general economic conditions could cause our sales and operating income to decrease. We derive approximately 97% of our revenue from the sale of services and components for the aerospace industry. Consequently, our business is directly affected by certain characteristics of and trends in the aerospace industry or general economic conditions that affect our customers, such as: · fluctuations in the aerospace industry’s business cycle; · varying fuel and labor costs; · intense price competition and regulatory scrutiny; · certain trends, including a possible decrease in aviation activity, a decrease in outsourcing by aircraft manufacturers or the failure of projected market growth to materialize or continue; and · changes in military budgeting and procurement for certain military aircraft. In the event that these characteristics and trends adversely affect customers in the aerospace industry, they will reduce the overall demand for our products and services, thereby decreasing our sales and operating income. Terrorist attacks could reduce demand for our large commercial, corporate and regional products and services. Acts of sabotage or terrorism or adverse results to the United States or its military conflicts, such as the current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, would likely have an adverse impact on the large commercial, corporate and regional aircraft industries, which could lead to reduced demand for our products and services. Prior industry downturns caused by such acts or results have negatively affected our Aerostructures segment’s sales, gross margin, net income and cash flow. 24 We may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position because of the intense competition in the markets we serve. Our competitors in the aerospace industry consist of a large fragmented group of companies, including certain business units or affiliates of our customers. We believe that competition within the aerospace industry will increase substantially as a result of industry consolidation, trends favoring greater outsourcing of components and a decrease in the number of preferred suppliers. We also believe foreign aerospace manufacturers and engineering service providers and foreign divisions of domestic aerospace businesses will become an increasing source of competition, due largely to these businesses’ access to low-cost labor and the increased prevalence of industry participation commitments, pursuant to which domestic OEMs agree to award production work to manufacturers from a foreign country in order to obtain orders from that coun try. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, production and other resources than we have. These competitors may have: · the ability to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements and industry conditions or trends; · greater access to capital; · stronger relationships with customers and suppliers; and · greater name recognition. Decreases in the availability or increases in the cost of our raw materials would increase our operating costs. Most of our components are manufactured from aluminum products. From time to time, we, and the aerospace components industry as a whole, have experienced shortages in the availability of aerospace quality aluminum. In addition, we utilize certain materials in the manufacture of our non-aerospace products that, in some cases, may be provided by a limited number of suppliers. Raw material shortages could limit our ability to meet our production needs and adversely affect our ability to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. Also, raw material shortages and capacity constraints at our raw material producers are outside of our control and can cause the price of aluminum to increase. Any significant shortage or price escalation of raw materials such as aluminum could increase our operating costs, which would likely have an ad verse impact on our financial results. Compliance with and changes in environmental, health and safety laws and other laws that regulate the operation of our business and industry standards could increase the cost of production and expose us to regulatory claims. Our operations are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state and local laws and substantial regulation by government agencies, including the United States Environmental Protection Agency, the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Federal Aviation Administration and Department of Defense. Among other matters, these agencies impose requirements that: · regulate the operation, handling, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials generated or used by us during the normal course of our operations; · govern the health and safety of our employees; and · require that we meet standards and licensing requirements for aerospace components. 25 In particular, we use and generate hazardous waste in our operations. Consequently, we monitor hazardous waste management and applicable environmental permitting and reporting for compliance with applicable laws at our locations in the ordinary course of our business. We may be subject to potential material liabilities relating to any investigation and cleanup of our locations or properties where we deliver hazardous waste for handling or disposal that may be contaminated and to claims alleging personal injury. In addition, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. The adoption of new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new cleanup requirements could require u s to incur costs and become subject to new or increased liabilities that could increase our operating costs and adversely affect the manner in which we conduct our business. While we require Federal Aviation Administration certifications only to a limited extent, we typically are required to maintain third-party registrations with respect to industry specification standards, such as AS9100 and National Aerospace and Defense Contractors Accreditation Program (“Nadcap”), for our quality systems and processes. In fact, many individual OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers require certifications or approvals of our work for them based on third-party registrations in order to engineer and serve the systems and components used in specific aircraft models. If material OEM certifications or approvals were to be revoked or suspended, OEMs might cease purchasing our products. We are also subject to U.S. Export Regulations, including the Arms Export Control Act (“AECA”) and associated International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”). Moreover, if in the future new or more stringent governmental regulations are adopted, or industry oversight heightened, such action could result in our incurrence of significant additional costs. Significant consolidation in the aerospace industry could adversely affect our business and financial results. The aerospace industry is experiencing significant consolidation, including the Company’s customers, competitors and suppliers. Consolidation among the Company’s customers may result in delays in the award of new contracts and losses of customer relationships which could impact our ability to win new projects. Consolidation among our competitors may result in competitors with greater resources and market share, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to compete successfully. Consolidation among the Company’s suppliers may result in fewer sources of supply and increased cost to the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 26 