ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance because actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. In addition, historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Factors that might cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements discussed elsewhere in this report, as well as affect our ability to achieve our financial and other goals, include, but are not limited to, the following: 1. The success of our business depends in large part on our ability to identify fashion trends as well as to react to changing customer demand in a timely manner. Consequently, we depend in part upon the customer response to the creative efforts of our merchandising, design and marketing teams and their ability to anticipate trends and fashions that will appeal to our consumer base. If we miscalculate our customers’ product preferences or the demand for our products, we may be faced with excess inventory. Historically, this type of occurrence has resulted in excess fabric for some products and markdowns and/or write-offs, which has impaired our profitability, and may do so in the future. Similarly, any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing customer demands and fashion trends will adversely affect our sales. In addition, from time to time, we may pursue new concepts, and if the new concepts are not successful, our financial condition may be harmed. 2. We face increasing product costs from our manufacturing partners, which could result in significant margin erosion. Worldwide prices for raw materials have increased significantly year-over-year. We currently estimate that these increasing product costs could result in significant margin erosion. Additionally, a significant percentage of our apparel products are manufactured in China. Manufacturers in that country are currently experiencing increased costs due to shortages of labor and the fluctuation of the Chinese Yuan in relation to the U.S. dollar. In addition, our business and operating results may be affected by changes in the political, social or economic environment in China. If we are unable to successfully mitigate a significant portion of such product costs, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 3. If we are unable to obtain raw materials or unable to find manufacturing facilities or our manufacturers perform unacceptably, our sales may be negatively affected and our financial condition may be harmed. We do not own any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend on contractors and third parties to manufacture our products. We place all of our orders for production of merchandise and raw materials by purchase order and do not have any long-term contracts with any manufacturer or supplier. If we fail to maintain favorable relationships with our manufacturers and suppliers or are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of quality raw materials on commercially reasonable terms, it could harm our business and results of operations. We cannot assure you that contractors and third-party manufacturers (1) will not supply similar products to our competitors, (2) will not stop supplying products to us completely or (3) will supply products in a timely manner. Untimely receipt of products may result in lower than anticipated sales and markdowns which would have a negative impact on earnings. Furthermore, we have received in the past, and may receive in the future, shipments of products from manufacturers that fail to conform to our quality control standards. In such event, unless we are able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, we may lose sales. Certain of our third-party manufacturers store our raw materials. In the event our inventory was damaged or destroyed and we were unable to obtain replacement raw materials, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. 4. We face significant competition in the retail and apparel industry, which could harm our sales and profitability. The retail and apparel industries are highly competitive and are characterized by low barriers to entry. We expect competition in our markets to increase. The primary competitive factors in our markets are: brand name recognition, sourcing, product styling, quality, presentation and pricing, timeliness of product development and delivery, store ambiance, customer service and convenience. We compete with traditional 10 Table of Contents department stores, specialty store retailers, lower price point retailers, business to consumer websites, off-price retailers and direct marketers for, among other things, raw materials, market share, retail space, finished goods, sourcing and personnel. Because many of these competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial, distribution and marketing resources than we do or maintain comparatively lower cost of operations, we may lack the resources to adequately compete with them. If we fail to remain competitive in any way, it could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 5. General economic conditions, including increases in energy and commodity prices, that are largely out of our control may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both nationally and locally. Recessionary economic cycles, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, deflation, increases in commodity prices, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws or other economic factors that may affect consumer spending or buying habits could adversely affect the demand for products we sell in our stores. In addition, the recent turmoil in the financial markets may have an adverse effect on the U.S. and world economy, which could negatively impact consumer spending patterns. We cannot assure you that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence. Furthermore, we could experience reduced traffic in our stores or limitations on the prices we can charge for our products, either of which could reduce our sales and profit margins and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, economic factors such as those listed above and increased transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, and changes in other laws and regulations may increase our cost of sales and our operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 6. We cannot assure that future store openings will be successful and new store openings may impact existing stores. We expect to open approximately 11 stores for bebe and 2b bebe in fiscal 2013 as well as up to 25 international licensee operated stores. In the past, we have closed stores as a result of poor performance, and we cannot assure that the stores that we plan to open in fiscal 2013, or any other stores that we might open in the future, will be successful or that our overall operating profit will increase as a result of opening these stores. During fiscal 2012, we closed 13 stores, and during fiscal 2013, we anticipate closing up to 12 bebe stores and one 2b bebe pop-up location. Most of our domestic new store openings in fiscal 2013 will be in existing markets. These openings may affect the existing stores’ net sales and profitability. Our failure to predict accurately the demographic or retail environment at any future store location could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new stores depends upon the availability of real estate that meets our criteria, including traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, average sales per square foot, lease economics, demographics, and other factors, and our ability to negotiate terms that meet our financial targets. In addition, we must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases. Failure to secure real estate locations adequate to meet annual targets as well as effectively managing the profitability of our existing fleet of stores could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7. Our sales, margins and operating results are subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations. Our business varies with general seasonal trends that are characteristic of the retail and apparel industries, such as the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales. As a result, our stores typically generate a higher percentage of our annual net sales and profitability in the second quarter of our fiscal year (which includes the holiday selling season) compared to other quarters. In addition, our comparable store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past, and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect comparable store sales, including fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions. Our ability to 11 Table of Contents deliver strong comparable store sales results and margins depends in large part on accurately forecasting demand and fashion trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our customer base, managing inventory effectively, and optimizing store performance by closing under-performing stores. Such fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 8. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees in order to support our existing businesses and future expansion. From time to time we actively recruit qualified candidates to fill key executive positions from within our company. There is substantial competition for experienced personnel, which we expect will continue. We compete for experienced personnel with companies who have greater financial resources than we do. In the past, we have experienced significant turnover of our executive management team and retail store personnel. We are also exposed to employment practice litigation due to the large number of employees and high turnover of our sales associates. If we fail to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel, it could harm our business and limit our ability to expand. In addition, we depend upon the expertise and execution of our key employees, particularly: Manny Mashouf, our founder, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors. If we lose the services of Mr. Mashouf or any key officers or employees, it could harm our business and results of operations. 9. Because Manny Mashouf beneficially owns a substantial portion of the outstanding shares, other shareholders may not be able to influence the direction the company takes. As of August 31, 2012, Manny Mashouf, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, beneficially owned approximately 54% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, he can control the election of directors and the outcome of all issues submitted to the shareholders. This may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire shares, may discourage acquisition bids, and could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay for shares of common stock. This concentration of stock ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company. 10. We rely on information technology, the disruption of which could adversely impact our business. We rely on various information systems to manage our operations and regularly assess the cost-benefit analysis associated with making additional investments to upgrade, enhance or replace such systems. If at any time we do not have adequate systems in place, or should we experience any delays or difficulties in transitioning to these or other new systems, or in integrating these systems with our current systems, or we experience any other disruptions affecting our information systems, we could experience a material adverse impact on our business. Should we experience unauthorized access, disclosure or use of any of our systems, or if our security controls, computer assets and sensitive data, including client data, are breached, this could also damage our reputation with our clients. Further, with increased technology and other patent litigation hitting the industry, and especially given our reliance on our vendor’s purported ownership of third party software we license, we face the potential of receiving claims that the technology we use or license infringes on another’s proprietary rights. Should this occur, and while we may secure indemnification rights in certain transactions, we may be subject to having to defend ourselves from such claims and/or be subject to unanticipated license fees or the necessity to transition away from technology we are using or abandon such use altogether. 11. We are subject to risks associated with our on-line sales. We operate on-line stores at www.bebe.com and www.2bstores.com to sell our merchandise. Although our on-line sales encompass a relatively small percentage of our total sales, our on-line operations are subject to numerous risks, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third-party computer hardware and software providers and system failures. The on-line operations also involve other risks that could have an impact on our results of operations including but not limited to diversion of sales from our other stores, rapid technological change, liability for on-line content, credit card fraud and loss of sensitive data. In addition, with our recent migration from a third-party platform for our bebe.com store, we may be faced with unforeseen transition challenges. We cannot assure that our on-line stores will continue to achieve sales and profitability growth or even remain at their current level. 12 Table of Contents 12. We are subject to cyber-security risks and may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks and to respond to cyber incidents. There is an increased dependence on digital technologies by public companies and an increasing frequency and severity of cyber incidents. Our business involves the storage and transmission of customers’ personal information, consumer preferences and credit card information. We also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our customers. While we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, given the ever increasing abilities of those intent on breaching cyber-security measures and given our reliance on the security and other efforts of third-party vendors, the total security effort at any point in time may not be completely effective and any such security breaches and cyber incidents could adversely affect our business. 13. Any serious disruption at our major facilities could have a harmful effect on our business. We currently operate a corporate office in Brisbane, California, a distribution facility in Benicia, California, and a design studio and production facility in Los Angeles, California. Any serious disruption at these facilities whether due to construction, relocation, fire, earthquake, terrorist acts or otherwise could harm our operations and could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, we have little experience operating essential functions away from our main corporate offices and are uncertain what effect operating such satellite facilities might have on business, personnel and results of operations. 14. Our business could be adversely impacted by unfavorable international political conditions. Due to our current and continued growth of international operations, our sales and operating results are, and will continue to be, affected by international social, political, legal and economic conditions. In particular, our business could be adversely impacted by instability or changes resulting in the disruption of trade with the countries in which our contractors, suppliers or customers are located, significant fluctuations in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies or restrictions on the transfer of funds, or additional trade restrictions imposed by the United States and other foreign governments. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes and customs restrictions could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we purchase a substantial amount of our raw materials from China and our business and operating results may be affected by changes in the political, social or economic environment in China. 15. If we are not able to protect our intellectual property our ability to capitalize on the value of our brand name may be impaired. Even though we take actions to establish, register and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights, we cannot assure you that we will be successful or that others will not imitate our products or infringe upon our intellectual property rights. In addition, we cannot assure that others will not resist or seek to block the sale of our products as infringements of their trademark and proprietary rights. We are seeking to register our trademarks domestically and internationally. Obstacles may exist that may prevent us from obtaining a trademark for the bebe, BEBE SPORT, bbsp and 2b bebe names or related names. We may not be able to register certain trademarks, purchase the right or obtain a license to use these names or related names on commercially reasonable terms. If we fail to obtain trademark, ownership or license the requisite rights, it would limit our ability to expand. In some jurisdictions, despite successful registration of our trademarks, third parties may allege infringement and bring actions against us. In addition, if our licensees fail to use our intellectual property correctly, the reputation and value associated with our trademarks may be diluted. Furthermore, if we do not demonstrate use of our trademarks, our trademark rights may lapse over time. 16. If an independent manufacturer or vendor violates labor or other laws, or is accused of violating any such laws, or if their labor practices diverge from those generally accepted as ethical, it could harm our business and brand image. While we maintain a policy to monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers by having an independent firm inspect these manufacturing sites, and all manufacturers and vendors are contractually required to comply with such labor practices, we cannot control the actions or the public’s perceptions of such manufacturers or vendors, nor can we assure that these manufacturers and vendors will conduct their businesses using ethical or legal labor practices. Apparel companies, in certain conditions, may 13 Table of Contents be held jointly liable for the wrongdoings of the manufacturers of their products. While we do not control our manufacturers’ employment conditions or business practices, and the manufacturers act in their own interest, they may act in a manner that results in negative public perceptions of us and/or employee allegations or court determinations that we are jointly liable. 17. We may be required to record losses in future quarters as a result of the decline in value of our investments in auction rate securities or as a result of a change in our ability to hold our investments in auction rate securities. We hold a variety of interest bearing ARS comprised of federally insured student loan backed securities and insured municipal authority bonds. These ARS investments are intended to provide liquidity via an auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at predetermined calendar intervals, allowing investors to either roll over their holdings or gain immediate liquidity by selling such interests at par. The recent uncertainties in the credit markets that began in February 2008 have affected our holdings in ARS investments and the majority of auctions for our investments in these securities have failed to settle on their respective settlement dates. Consequently, $60.0 million of our ARS are not currently liquid and we will not be able to access these funds until a future auction of these investments is successful or securities are purchased or redeemed outside of the auction process. Maturity dates for these ARS investments range from 2016 to 2044, with principal distributions occurring on certain securities prior to maturity. The valuation of our investment portfolio is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Factors that may impact its valuation include changes to credit ratings of the securities as well as to the underlying assets supporting those securities, rates of default of the underlying assets, underlying collateral value, discount rates and ongoing strength and quality of market credit and liquidity. If the current market conditions deteriorate further, or the anticipated recovery in market values does not occur, we may be required to record additional losses in other comprehensive income or losses in net income in future quarters. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 