ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following specific risk factors as well as other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report, as these, among others, are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our historical results. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties applicable to our business. Our management contracts and leases expose us to certain risks. The loss or renewal on less favorable terms of a substantial number of management contracts or leases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, because certain management contracts and leases are with state, local and quasi-governmental entities, changes to certain governmental entities’ approaches to contracting regarding parking facilities could affect such contracts. A material reduction in the operating income associated with ancillary services we provide under management contracts and leases, including increases in costs or claims associated with, or a reduction in the number of clients obtaining insurance we provide, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that management contracts and leases are cancelable without cause, most of these contracts would also be cancelable in the event of our clients’ bankruptcy, despite the automatic stay provisions under bankruptcy law. We believe that our public and private client base is becoming more concentrated. Because national property owners, managers and developers and other property management companies tend to own or manage multiple properties, our ability to provide parking services for a large number of properties becomes dependent on our relationships with these entities. As this ownership concentration continues, such clients become more significant to our business. The loss of one of these large clients or the sale of properties they own to clients of our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, large clients with 14 extensive portfolios have greater negotiating power with respect to our management contracts and leases, which could adversely affect our profit margins. In order to raise additional revenue, a number of state and municipal governments have either sold or entered into long-term leases of public assets or may be contemplating such transactions. The assets that are the subject of such transactions have included government-owned parking garages located in downtown commercial districts and in the future may include the parking operations at airports. The sale or long-term leasing of such government-owned parking assets to our competitors or clients of our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business would be harmed if fewer clients obtain insurance coverage through us. Many of our clients have historically chosen to obtain liability insurance coverage for the locations we manage by being named as additional insureds under our master insurance policies. Clients do, however, have the option of purchasing such insurance independently, as long as we are named as an additional insured pursuant to an additional insured endorsement. We purchase insurance policies at prices that we believe represent a discount to the prices that would typically be charged to parking facility owners on a stand-alone basis. Pursuant to our management contracts, we allocate a portion of our risk management costs, at rates we believe are competitive, to those clients who choose to obtain their insurance coverage by being named as additional insureds under our insurance policies. A material reduction in the number of clients who choose to obtain their insurance coverage from us in that manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We cannot assure you that cash flow from operations, combined with additional borrowings under the senior credit facility and any future credit facility will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay our indebtedness, or to fund other liquidity needs. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, which could cause the related risks to intensify. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before their respective maturities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our senior credit facility, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to refinance our debt, we may default under the terms of our indebtedness, which could lead to an acceleration of the debt. We do not expect that we could repay all of our outstanding indebtedness if the repayment of such indebtedness was accelerated. Our working capital and liquidity may be adversely affected if a significant number of our clients require us to deposit all parking revenues into their respective accounts. We frequently contract with clients to hold parking revenues in our account and remit the revenues, minus the operating expenses and our fee, to our clients at the end of the month. Some clients, however, require us to deposit parking revenues in their accounts on a daily basis. This type of arrangement requires us to pay costs as they are incurred and receive reimbursement and our management fee after the end of the month. There can be no assurance that a significant number of clients will not switch to the practice of requiring us to deposit all parking revenues into their respective accounts, which would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Additional funds would need to be reserved for future insurance losses if such losses are worse than expected. We provide liability and worker’s compensation insurance coverage consistent with our obligations to our clients under our various management contracts and leases. We are obligated to reimburse our 15 insurance carrier for each loss incurred in the current policy year up to the amount of a deductible specified in our insurance policies. The deductible for our various liability and workers’ compensation policies is $250,000. We also purchase property insurance that provides coverage for loss or damage to our property, and in some cases our clients’ property, as well as business interruption coverage for lost operating income and certain associated expenses. The deductible applicable to any given loss under our property insurance policy varies based upon the insured values and the peril that causes the loss. Our financial statements reflect our funding of all such obligations based upon guidance and evaluation we have received from third-party insurance professionals. There can be no assurance, however, that the ultimate amount of our obligations will not exceed the amount presently funded or accrued, in which case we would need to set aside additional funds to reserve for any such excess. Our obligations could increase if we receive a greater number of insurance claims or if the severity of, or the administrative costs associated with, those claims generally increases. A material increase in insurance costs due to a change in the number or severity of claims, claims costs or premiums paid by us could have a material adverse effect on our operating income. The failure to successfully complete or integrate possible future acquisitions or new contracts could have a negative impact on our business. We may pursue both small and large acquisitions in our business or in new lines of business on a selective basis, and we may be in discussions or negotiations with one or more of these acquisitions or new contract candidates simultaneously. There can be no assurance that suitable acquisitions or new contract candidates will be identified, that such acquisitions or new contracts will be consummated or that the acquired operations or new contracts will be integrated successfully. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including (but not limited to) the following: · Difficulties in integrating the operations, systems, technologies and personnel of the acquired companies, particularly companies with large and widespread operations. · Diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from acquisitions. · Difficulties in entering markets or businesses in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and in which competitors have stronger market positions. · Insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions. · The potential loss of key employees, customers and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of acquisition plans and their actual consummation. Acquisitions may also cause us to: · Use a substantial portion of our cash resources or incur a substantial amount of debt. · Temporarily increase costs, including general and administrative cost, required to integrate acquisitions or large contract portfolios. · Significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition. · Assume liabilities. 16 · Issue common stock that would dilute our current shareholders’ percentage ownership. · Record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges. Mergers and acquisitions of companies are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our parent company, Steamboat Industries LLC, and its wholly owned subsidiary, Steamboat Industries, N.V., both of which are controlled by our chairman, control our major corporate decisions, and the offer or sale of a substantial amount of our common stock by our controlling shareholder could have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Our parent company, Steamboat Industries LLC, and its wholly owned subsidiary, Steamboat Industries N.V., both of which are controlled by our chairman, John V. Holten, owns 51.3%of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2006. As a result, Steamboat Industries LLC and its subsidiary control us, the election and removal of the directors on our board of directors, and our management and policies. Steamboat Industries LLC and its subsidiary also control all matters regarding stockholder approval, including the amendment of certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and the approval of fundamental corporate transactions. Steamboat Industries LLC and its subsidiary also have the ability to pledge shares of our common stock as security for their debt obligations. In the event that some or all of such pledged shares are foreclosed upon following default of such debt obligations, Mr. Holten may no longer control a majority of the voting power of our company. As of March 5, 2007, we have only 12,100,000 shares of common stock authorized, of which only 1,983,769 shares remain unissued after giving effect to all authorized options under our long-term incentive plan. As a result, we require the consent of Steamboat Industries LLC and its subsidiary in order to authorize and issue additional common stock in connection with corporate actions that may be beneficial to our business or to our stockholders, such as increasing the number of shares authorized under our Long-Term Incentive Plan for the retention of management, or in order to pursue acquisitions and mergers in exchange for stock. The ability of our parent company to control our major corporate decisions may harm the market price for our common stock by delaying, deferring or preventing a business combination involving our company, causing us to enter into transactions that are not in the best interests of all stockholders or discouraging third-party investors. Steamboat Industries LLC and its subsidiary are permitted to sell, dispose of or otherwise enter into other transactions involving significant amounts of our common stock under Rule 144 and other exemptions from registration under the federal securities laws. Steamboat Industries LLC also has transferable registration rights with respect to such common stock. The offer, sale, disposition or other such transactions involving substantial amounts of our common stock by these or other significant shareholders, particularly if such offers, sales, dispositions or transactions occur simultaneously or relatively close in time, could have a significant negative impact on our stock price. Our ability to expand our business will be dependent upon the availability of adequate capital. The rate of our expansion will depend in part upon the availability of adequate capital, which in turn will depend in large part upon cash flow generated by our business and the availability of equity and debt capital. We believe that we will be able to obtain equity or debt capital on acceptable terms. However, we will require the consent of Steamboat Industries LLC and its subsidiary in order to authorize and issue additional shares of common stock above the current number of shares of authorized capital stock, which may be required in connection with any future acquisitions. In addition, our senior credit facility contains 17 provisions that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and/or make substantial investments or acquisitions. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to finance our current growth strategy. A majority of our board of directors are not considered “independent” under the rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. Steamboat Industries LLC and its subsidiary own a majority of our common stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” under the rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC., and we rely on the “controlled company” exception to the board of directors and committee composition requirements under rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. Pursuant to this exception, we are exempt from the rule that requires that (i) our board of directors be comprised of a majority of “independent directors” as defined under the rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC; (ii) our compensation committee be comprised solely of “independent directors”; and (iii) our nominating and corporate governance committee be comprised solely of “independent directors”, as defined under the rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. Because we rely upon this exemption, a majority of our board of directors are not considered “independent”. Furthermore, our compensation, nominating and corporate governance committees are not comprised solely of “independent directors,” as only one member out of the three member-directors on each committee is considered “independent” under the rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. The “controlled company” exception does not modify the independence requirements of the audit committee. The sureties for our performance bond program may elect not to provide us with new or renewal performance bonds for any reason. As is customary in the industry, a surety provider can refuse to provide a bond principal with new or renewal surety bonds. If any existing or future surety provider refuses to provide us with surety bonds, there can be no assurance that we would be able to find alternate providers on acceptable terms, or at all. Our inability to provide surety bonds could also result in the loss of existing contracts. Failure to find a provider of surety bonds, and our resulting inability to bid for new contracts or renew existing contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We may be unable to renew our insurance coverage and we do not maintain insurance coverage for all possible risks. Our liability and worker’s compensation insurance coverage expires on an annual basis. There can be no assurance that our insurance carriers will in fact be willing to renew our coverage at any rate at the expiration date. We maintain a comprehensive portfolio of insurance policies to help protect us against loss or damage incurred from a wide variety of insurable risks. Each year, we review with our professional insurance advisers whether the insurance policies and associated coverages that we maintain are sufficient to adequately protect us from the various types of risk to which we are exposed in the ordinary course of business. That analysis takes into account various pertinent factors such as the likelihood that we would incur a material loss from any given risk as well as the cost of obtaining insurance coverage against any such risk. While we believe that we maintain a comprehensive portfolio of insurance that is consistent with customary business practices and adequately protects us from the risks that we typically face in the ordinary course of our business, there can be no assurance that we may not sustain a material loss for which we do not maintain any, or adequate insurance coverage. Our business may be harmed as a result of extraordinary natural disasters. In 2005, Hurricane Katrina caused significant disruption to our operations in New Orleans and the U.S. Gulf Coast region, which adversely impacted our operating results for this region. To the extent that we experience similar weather related events in the U.S. Gulf Coast Region or in other geographical areas 18 where we operate, or experience other extraordinary natural events, such as earthquakes, our operating results may be adversely impacted. Our business may be harmed as a result of terrorist attacks and the related increase in government regulation of airports and reduced air travel. Any terrorist attacks, particularly in the United States or Canada, may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Attacks have resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased government regulation of airlines and airport facilities, including imposition of minimum distances between parking facilities and terminals, resulting in the elimination of currently managed parking facilities, and increased security checks of employees and passengers at airport facilities. We derive a significant percentage of our gross profit from parking facilities and parking related services in and around airports. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 19% of gross profit was derived from those operations. The Federal Aviation Administration generally prohibits parking within 300 feet of airport terminals during periods of heightened security. While the prohibition is not currently in effect, there can be no assurance that this governmental prohibition will not again be reinstated. The existing regulations governing parking within 300 feet of airport terminals or future regulations may prevent us from using certain parking spaces. Reductions in the number of parking spaces and air travelers may reduce our revenues and cash flow for both our leased facilities and those facilities we operate under management contracts. We must comply with regulations that may impose significant costs on us. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. These laws typically impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. In connection with the operation of parking facilities, we may be potentially liable for such costs. In addition, from time to time we are involved in environmental issues at certain of locations or in connection with our operations. While it is difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of any of these matters, based on information currently available, management believes that none of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The cost of defending against claims of liability, or remediation of a contaminated property, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, several state and local laws have been passed in recent years that encourage car pooling and the use of mass transit. Laws and regulations that reduce the number of cars and vehicles being driven could adversely impact our business. We collect and remit sales/parking taxes and file tax returns for and on behalf of ourselves and our clients. We are affected by laws and regulations that may impose a direct assessment on us for failure to remit sales/parking taxes and filing of tax returns for ourselves and on behalf of our clients. Prior transactions limit our ability to utilize our remaining net operating losses and may accelerate future payment of taxes. We have substantial net operating losses, or NOLs, for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes. As a result of the initial public offering completed in June 2004, an ownership change occurred under Internal Revenue Code Section 382 that limits our ability to use pre-change NOLs to reduce future taxable income. 19 The operation of our business is dependent upon key personnel. Our success is, and will continue to be, substantially dependent upon the continued services of our executive management team. The loss of the services of one or more of the members of our executive management team could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we have entered into employment agreements with, and historically have been successful in retaining the services of, our executive management, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain them in the future. In addition, our continued growth depends upon our ability to attract and retain skilled operating managers and employees. Many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 22.7% of our employees are represented by labor unions. Approximately 18.0% of our collective bargaining contracts, representing 3.0% of our employees, are up for renewal in 2007. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew existing labor union contracts on acceptable terms. Employees could exercise their rights under the labor union contract, which could include a strike or walk-out. In such cases, there are no assurances that we would be able to staff sufficient employees for our short-term needs. Any such labor strike or our inability to negotiate a satisfactory contract upon expiration of the current agreements could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We make contributions to multiemployer benefit plans on behalf of certain employees covered by collective bargaining agreements and could be responsible for paying unfunded liabilities incurred by such benefit plans, which amount could be material. We operate in a very competitive business environment. Competition in the field of parking facility management is intense. The market is fragmented and is served by a variety of entities ranging from single lot operators to large regional and national multi-facility operators, as well as municipal and other governmental entities that choose not to outsource their parking operations. Competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Many of our competitors also have long-standing relationships with our clients. Providers of parking facility management services have traditionally competed on the basis of cost and service. As we have worked to establish ourselves as one of the principal members of the industry, we compete predominately on the basis of high levels of service and strong relationships. We may not be able to, or may choose not to, compete with certain competitors on the basis of price. As a result, a greater proportion of our clients may switch to other service providers or self-manage during an economic downturn. Economic and demographic trends could materially adversely affect our business. Our business operations are located in North America and tend to be concentrated in large urban areas. Our business could be materially adversely affected to the extent that economic or demographic factors result in the movement of white-collar jobs from urban centers to suburbs or even out of North America, increased office vacancies in urban areas or movement toward home office alternatives, or lower consumer spending or employment levels. 20 