1A. Risk Factors, Risks Related to Our Business – We may not realize all of the sales expected from our existing backlog.” Raw Materials and Procurement Practices We manufacture the majority of our components from aerospace quality aluminum sheet metal and extrusion. We also use steel, titanium, inconel, monel and other metals to support the balance of our components. We purchase the majority of these materials through contracts we have negotiated with a distributor and a mill as well as contracts certain of our customers have negotiated with distributors. These contracts are designed to provide an adequate supply of material at predictable pricing levels. If supply is not available or we need a product that is not covered under these agreements, we use a variety of mills and distributors to support our needs. We believe that currently there are adequate alternative sources of supply. In line with our customers’ demands for more sophisticated and complex products, we have focused our attention on operational execution of an unprecedented number of assembled products. As a result, we anticipate a greater use of third party suppliers for strategic components. To meet this challenge, we established a management procurement process designed to develop strategic relationships with key suppliers and to manage the supply chain to ensure the timely delivery of quality components. During 2007, we purchased approximately 31% of the materials used in production from three suppliers. Quality Assurance and Control Our Aerospace Quality Systems are continuously reviewed and updated to comply with the requirements of ISO9001-2000/AS9100 Revision B and Nadcap (National Aerospace and Defense Contractors Accreditation Program) special processes quality requirements. The continuous review and updating of our processes have allowed our fabrication facilities, with third party ISO9001-2000/AS9100 registrations from National Quality Assurance, USA and Perry Johnson Registrars and Performance Review Institute, to maintain those certifications for 2008 and beyond. Our Engineering Services segment’s quality management system is continuously reviewed and updated to comply with the requirements of ISO9001-2000/A/AS9100 Revision B. This attention to quality system and business processes has allowed us to remain an approved supplier for many of the leading OEM and Tier 1 suppliers such as Gulfstream, Boeing, Bombardier, Sikorsky Aircraft, Spirit AeroSystems, Lockheed Martin, Cessna, Raytheon, Goodrich and others. Our quality systems include the quality review of work order masters and outside purchase orders to ensure that the flow-down of our customer’s requirements is being addressed both internally and externally. The quality review of the work order master also ensures that the necessary inspection operations are properly located within the work order to verify and control the outcome of the fabrication processes. We use an ongoing employee training program and lean manufacturing techniques to assist employees in becoming familiar with any changes in our procedures or special customer requirements. We use a robust internal auditing program for each of the facilities to ensure that the training is effective and to ensure ongoing compliance to industry and customer required standards. The internal auditing is provided by a combination of Quality Engineer/Auditors located in some of our facilities or by Corporate Quality Engineer/Auditors traveling to our individual facilities from our headquarters to perform internal audits. All of our quality auditors have completed Registrar Accreditation Board approved Lead Auditor training and have been observed by a Corporate Quality Engineer/Auditor. 11 We utilize a first part buy-off at each operation during the fabrication process as well as a 100% final inspection of parts to verify their compliance with the customer’s configuration requirements. We use the AS9102 Rev A standard and forms to perform First Article Inspections. Our Corporate Quality Group maintains our Approved Supplier List (“ASL”) for all facilities. This includes reviewing surveys, performing on-site audits and constant monitoring of customer ASL’s to verify that suppliers are maintaining their customers’ direct approvals. Our Engineering Services segment’s quarterly management review meetings are performed with the segment’s executive level team on all internal processes and performance to ensure that we meet expectations with positive measurable results. All suppliers of our Engineering Services segment are approved through our supplier rating system and are maintained in our ASL database. All fabrications suppliers of our Engineering Services segment are reviewed on a continual basis with documented quality performance reviews and quality deliverable reviews. All certification documentation is reviewed through preliminary design reviews and critical design reviews by our engineering department and is routed through our internal quality design verification group for verification and validation of data. All Engineering Services sites are required to go through a robust quality assurance internal audit program every year to ensure the effectiveness of our quality management system structure. All final audit reports are reviewed by each Engineering Services site director and the internal audit team to assess required process improvements. Sales and Marketing Our Aerostructures sales and marketing group targets four market sectors: corporate and regional aircraft, large commercial aircraft, military aircraft and non-aerospace. We utilize five Program Managers to support these sectors. At each of our facilities, customer service representatives establish and maintain a business relationship between customers and our production and fabrication business units with a focus on customer satisfaction. Additionally, we retain two independent sales representatives. Awards of new work are generally preceded by receipt of a request for quotation, referred to as an RFQ. Upon receipt, the RFQ is preliminarily reviewed by a team consisting of members of senior management, a program manager, an estimator, engineering personnel and plant management. If our team determines that the program is adequately compatible with our capabilities and objectives, we prepare a formal response. A substantial percentage of new programs are awarded on a competitive bid basis. Following award, the same team reviews the work statement for consistency with the bid and changes are coordinated with the customer. Communication with the customer is performed by the Program Manager. Our Engineering Services segment utilizes a central marketing and business development team whose main area of responsibility is to establish and maintain ongoing business relationships with our engineering services customer base. In addition, the directors of engineering, operations and program management organization, as well as the organizations they oversee, directly engage with existing customers and programs. All internal organizations within our Engineering Services segment work together to maintain and expand customer relationships with new and existing customers. The segment’s marketing and business development team serves as the main focus for sales and marketing activities relating to design-build programs, working in conjunction with the Program Managers and other LMI corporate staff to assure seamless customer service. 12 Competition Our competitors in the aerospace industry consist of a large fragmented group of companies, including certain business units or affiliates of our customers. However, we are unaware of any single company in the aerospace industry that competes in all of our processes. We believe competition within the aerospace industry will increase substantially as a result of industry consolidation, trends favoring greater outsourcing of components and design engineering, the reduction of the number of preferred suppliers and increased capabilities of foreign sources. We also believe participants in the aerospace industry compete primarily with respect to delivery, price and quality. Unlike the aerospace industry, we believe there are only a few producers of components similar to the principal technology components we manufacture. We believe engineering capability, responsiveness and price are key aspects of competition in the technology industry. In all of our industries, some of our competitors, including business units affiliated with our customers, have substantially greater financial, production and other resources than we have. We also believe that foreign aerospace manufacturers and engineering service providers are becoming an increasing source of competition, due largely to foreign manufacturers’ access to low-cost labor. Within the aerospace industry, the prevalence of industry participation commitments, pursuant to which domestic OEMs agree to award production work to manufacturers from a foreign country in order to obtain orders from that country, is also driving this trend. Governmental Regulations and Environmental Compliance Our operations are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state and local laws and substantial regulation by government agencies, including the United States Environmental Protection Agency, the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Federal Aviation Administration. Among other matters, these agencies impose requirements that regulate the handling, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials generated or used by us during the normal course of our operations, govern the health and safety of our employees and require that we meet standards and licensing requirements for aerospace components. This extensive regulatory framework imposes significant compliance burdens and risks and, as a result, may substantially affect our operational costs. In addition, we may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous substances released on or in our facilities without regard to whether we knew of, or caused, the release of such substances. Furthermore, we are subject to U.S. Export Regulations, including the Arms Export Control Act (AECA), associated International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), as well as other federal regulations promulgated by various departments within the U.S. Government. We believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations and we are not aware of any material environmental violations at any of our current or former facilities. There can be no assurance, however, that our prior activities did not create a material environmental situation for which we could be responsible or that future uses or conditions (including, without limitation, changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations, or an increase in the amount of hazardous substances generated or used by our operations) will not result in any material environmental liability to us or result in a material adverse effect to our financial condition or results of operations. 13 Employees As of December 31, 2007, we had 1,338 permanent employees, of whom 32 served in executive positions, approximately 400 were engineers and engineering-related personnel, approximately 160 served in administrative positions and 746 were engaged in manufacturing operations. In addition, we also used the services of approximately 119 temporary employees. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement, and we have not experienced any material business interruption as a result of labor disputes since our inception. We believe we have an excellent relationship with our employees. We strive to continuously train and educate our employees, which enhances the skill and flexibility of our work force. Through the use of internally developed programs, which include formal classroom and on-the-job, hands-on training, lean manufacturing training developed jointly with external resources and tuition reimbursement programs we fund, we seek to attract, develop and retain the personnel necessary to achieve our growth and profitability objectives. Seasonality We do not generally experience any seasonality in the demand for our products. Geographic Operations We derive less than ten percent of our sales from foreign sources. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks and other information contained in or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K when evaluating our business and financial condition. Although the risks described below are the risks that we believe are material, there may also be risks of which we are currently unaware, or that we currently regard as immaterial based on the information available to us that later prove to be material. These risks may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Our Business Sales to a limited number of customers represent a significant portion of our revenues, and our long-term agreements with these customers are generally terminable upon written notice. As of December 31, 2007, 53% of our aggregate sales were dependent upon relationships with three major customers: Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation, Spirit AeroSystems, and Boeing Company. Although a majority of our sales, including sales to these customers, are made pursuant to long-term agreements, these agreements are generally terminable upon written notice by the customer and typically do not require the customer to purchase any specific quantity of products. As a result, our sales under these agreements may not continue for the full term of the agreements or be consistent with historical sales levels. Additionally, the loss of any one of these customers, or a significant reduction in the amount of orders received from any one of these customers, could cause a significant decrease in our net sales and profitability. We anticipate that a small number of large customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. See “Item 1. Business — Customers.” 14 We may experience cost over-runs related to orders for new products and changes to existing products, and we may be unable to recoup the resulting increased costs. We generally sell our components, kits and assemblies under multi-year firm agreements on a fixed-price basis, regardless of our production costs. As a result, factors such as inaccurate pricing, manufacturing inefficiencies, start-up costs and increases in the cost of labor, materials or overhead may result in cost over-runs and losses on those agreements. We may not succeed in obtaining the agreement of a customer to reprice a particular product, and we may not be able to recoup previous losses resulting from incomplete or inaccurate engineering data or out-of-tolerance tooling. Demand for our defense-related products depends upon government spending. A material portion of our sales is derived from the military market. The military market is largely dependent upon government budgets, particularly the U.S. defense budget. The funding of government programs is subject to Congressional appropriation. Although multi-year contracts may be authorized in connection with major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis, even though a program may be expected to continue for several years. Consequently, programs, including those that require our components, may be only partially funded or never enter full-scale production as expected. As a result, future U.S. defense spending may not be allocated to programs that would benefit our business or at levels that we had anticipated. A decrease in levels of defense spending or the government’s termination of, or failure to fully fund, one or more of the contracts for the programs in which we participate would adversely impact our revenues and cash flow. We may not realize all of the sales expected from our existing backlog. At December 31, 2007, we had approximately $161 million of order backlog. We consider backlog to be firm customer orders for future delivery. From time to time, our OEM customers provide projections of components and assemblies that they anticipate purchasing in the future under new and existing programs. These projections are not included in our backlog unless we have received a firm purchase order or order commitment from our customers. Our customers may have the right, under certain circumstances and with certain penalties or consequences, to terminate, reduce or defer firm orders that we have in backlog. If our customers terminate, reduce or defer firm orders, we may be protected from certain costs and losses, but our sales will nevertheless be adversely affected. Given the nature of our industry and customers, there is always a risk that orders may be cancelled or rescheduled due to fluctuation in our customers’ business needs, purchasing budgets or inventory management practices. Moreover, our realization of sales from new and existing programs is inherently subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties, including the possibility that our customers will not launch programs on time, or at all, the number of units that our customers will actually produce will change and the timing of production will be altered. Also, until firm orders are pledged, our customers generally have the right to discontinue a program or replace us with another supplier at any time without penalty. Our failure to realize sales from new and existing programs would adversely impact our net sales, results of operations and cash flow. We may be required to risk our capital to continue existing partnerships or develop new strategic partnerships with OEMs. Many OEMs are moving toward developing strategic, and sometimes risk-sharing, partnerships with their larger suppliers. Each strategic partner provides an array of integrated services including purchasing, warehousing and assembly for OEM customers. We have been designated as a strategic partner by some OEMs and are striving to become a strategic partner of other OEMs. In order to maintain our current strategic partnerships and establish new ones, we will likely need to expand our existing capacities or capabilities. We may not, however, have the financial ability or technical expertise to do so. 15 Our long-term success and growth strategy depend on our senior management and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. We have written employment agreements with certain of our senior management that expire on December 31, 2009 and 2010. We also maintain key man life insurance policies on the lives of certain members of senior management. The loss of service of one or more of our senior management personnel, however, could result in a loss of leadership and an inability to successfully pursue our long-term success and growth strategy. Our success and future growth also depend on management’s ability to attract, hire, train, integrate and retain qualified personnel in all areas of our business. Competition for such personnel is intense, and our inability to adequately staff our operations with qualified personnel could render us less efficient and decrease our rate of production. For example, our Engineering Services segment competes in a highly competitive market to attract and retain highly qualified and well-trained engineers. Such a competitive market could put upward pressure on labor costs for engineering talent. Although we have historically been able to pass through increases in engineering labor costs to our customers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. In addition, rising costs associated with certain employee benefits, in particular employee health coverage, could limit our ability to provide certain employee benefits in the future. If we are unable to provide a competitive employee benefits package, recruiting and retaining qualified personnel may become more difficult. We use sophisticated equipment that is not easily repaired or replaced, and therefore equipment failures could cause us to be unable to meet quality or delivery expectations of our customers. Many of our manufacturing processes are dependent on sophisticated equipment used to meet the strict tolerance requirements of our customers. Because sophisticated equipment generally is not easily repaired or replaced, unexpected failures of this equipment could result in production delays or the manufacturing of defective products. Our ability to meet the expectations of our customers with respect to on-time delivery of quality products is critical. Our failure to meet the quality or delivery expectations of our customers could lead to the loss of one or more of our significant customers. The use by end-users of the product platforms into which our components are integrated could expose us to product liability claims. We may be exposed to possible claims of personal injury, death, grounding costs, property damage or other liabilities that result from the failure or malfunction of any component or assembly fabricated or designed by us. We currently have in place policies for products liability and premises insurance, which we believe provide adequate coverage in amounts and on terms that are generally consistent with industry practice. Nevertheless, to the extent a claim is made against us that is not covered in whole or in part by our current insurance, we may be subject to a material loss. Moreover, any claims that are covered by our policies would likely cause our premiums to increase, and we might not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage levels in the future. Our long-term growth strategy depends on our ability to maintain a robust and effective supply chain management system. As we pursue our long-term growth strategy, we will be providing to our customers increasingly sophisticated components, value-added services and design-build programs. In addition, many OEMs are moving toward developing strategic partnerships with their larger suppliers, which are providing purchasing, warehousing and assembly services. The increased complexity of our products, the expected increased outsourcing of non-core activities and the value-added services we are providing to our customers require us to maintain and manage an effective supply chain to assure timely delivery to us of quality components needed to meet our delivery schedules. Failure to procure from our suppliers quality components on a timely basis could decrease customer satisfaction, and thus our competitiveness, and could also result in loss revenue due to contractual penalties or lost sales. 16 Our facilities are located in regions that are affected by natural disasters. Several of our facilities are located in regions that have an increased risk of earthquake activity, and one of our facilities has experienced damage due to floods. Although we maintain earthquake and flood loss insurance where necessary, an earthquake, flood or other natural disaster could disrupt our business, result in significant recovery costs and cause our productivity to decrease. We may be required to record material impairment charges for goodwill, which would reduce our net income and earnings per share. Current accounting standards require a periodic review of goodwill for impairment in value if circumstances indicate that the carrying amount will not be recoverable. In assessing the recoverability of our goodwill, management is required to make certain critical estimates and assumptions, particularly as to manufacturing efficiency, the achievement of reductions in operating costs, and increased sales and backlog. If any of these or other estimates and assumptions are not realized in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for goodwill, which charges would reduce net income and earnings per share. Risks associated with acquisitions could result in increased costs and production inefficiencies. A key element of our growth strategy continues to be expansion of our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses involved in the aerospace industry and strategic acquisitions that would provide us with access to new industries, product lines and technology. Our ability to expand by acquisition is dependent upon, and may be limited by, the availability of suitable acquisition candidates and our capital resources. Acquisition risks include: · difficulties in assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; · difficulties associated with implementing and integrating new product lines and meeting new tolerance requirements; · difficulties in accurately pricing new products; · the failure to realize potential cost savings or other financial and strategic benefits; · the incurrence of substantial unanticipated integration costs; · the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies; · the incurrence of substantial, additional indebtedness in funding such acquisitions; · significant strain on our managerial, financial and other resources; and · potential goodwill impairment. Furthermore, although we will investigate the business operations and assets of entities that we acquire, there may be liabilities that we fail or are unable to discover and for which we, as a successor owner or operator, may be liable. Also, the necessity of integrating our internal controls over financial reporting with businesses acquired by us in order to meet the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes - Oxley Act of 2002 will add additional cost and expense to acquisitions and expose us to the risk that we may not be successful in integrating our internal control over financial reporting with that of the acquired business on a timely basis. 17 Certain newer aircraft platforms include fewer metal products and could, over time, limit our ability to grow. Newer military aircraft, such as the Lockheed F-35 Series, and newer aircraft designs for large commercial aircraft, such as the Boeing 787, include more composite and other non-metal components than previous models. Additionally, redesigns of existing platforms could include greater amounts of non-metal components. Although we are in the process of developing and/or acquiring non-metalic production capabilities, we currently do not have the capability to produce non-metal components. If we are unsuccessful in developing and/or acquiring such production expertise, the trend toward the use of non-metal components could limit our opportunities for new work, cause the loss of certain existing work and increase the competitive environment with other suppliers of metal components. Anti-takeover provisions and our organizational documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit your opportunity to sell your shares at a premium. Our restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain certain provisions that reduce the probability of a change of control or acquisition of our company. These provisions include, among other things: · the ability of our board to issue preferred stock in one or more series with such rights, obligations and preferences as the board may determine, without any further vote or action by our shareholders; · advanced notice procedures for shareholders to nominate candidates for election of directors and for shareholders to submit proposals for consideration at shareholders’ meetings; · the staggered election of our directors; and · restrictions on the ability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders. In addition, we are subject to Section 459 of the General and Business Corporation Law of Missouri, which, under certain circumstances, may prohibit a business combination with any shareholder holding 20% or more of our outstanding voting power. This provision may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing certain potential acquisitions or a change of control of our company. If our directors and executive officers choose to act together, they will exercise voting control over matters requiring approval by our shareholders. As of December 31, 2007, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 28% of our common stock. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, would be able to effectively control all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of our directors and any merger, sale of assets or other change of control transaction. Risks Related to Our Industry We are subject to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry, and any future downturn in the aerospace industry or general economic conditions could cause our sales and operating income to decrease. We derive approximately 92% of our revenue from the sale of services and components for the aerospace industry. Consequently, our business is directly affected by certain characteristics and trends of the aerospace industry or general economic conditions that affect our customers, such as: · fluctuations in the aerospace industry’s business cycle; · varying fuel and labor costs; · intense price competition and regulatory scrutiny; 18 · certain trends, including a possible decrease in aviation activity, a decrease in outsourcing by aircraft manufacturers or the failure of projected market growth to materialize or continue; and · changes in military budgeting and procurement for certain military aircraft. In the event that these characteristics and trends were to adversely affect customers in the aerospace industry, they would reduce the overall demand for our products and services, thereby decreasing our sales and operating income. Terrorist attacks could reduce demand for our large commercial, corporate and regional products and services. Acts of sabotage or terrorism or adverse results to the U.S. and its military conflicts, such as the current conflict in Iraq, would likely have an adverse impact on the large commercial, corporate and regional aircraft industries, which could lead to reduced demand for our products and services. Prior industry downturns caused by such acts or results have negatively affected our net Aerostructures segment’s sales, gross margin, net income and cash flow. In particular, we and the aerospace industry suffered significantly as a result of the events of September 11, 2001, the events of which caused a substantial downturn in new large commercial aircraft deliveries and order cancellations or deferrals by major domestic and international air carriers. We may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position because of the intense competition in the markets we serve. Our competitors in the aerospace industry consist of a large fragmented group of companies, including certain business units or affiliates of our customers. We believe that competition within the aerospace industry will increase substantially as a result of industry consolidation, trends favoring greater outsourcing of components and a decrease in the number of preferred suppliers. We also believe foreign aerospace manufacturers and engineering service providers will become an increasing source of competition, due largely to foreign manufacturers’ access to low-cost labor and the increased prevalence of industry participation commitments, pursuant to which domestic OEMs agree to award production work to manufacturers from a foreign country in order to obtain orders from that country. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, production and other resources than we have. These competitors may have: · the ability to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements and industry conditions or trends; · greater access to capital; · stronger relationships with customers and suppliers; and · greater name recognition. Decreases in the availability or increases in the cost of our raw materials would increase our operating costs. Most of our components are manufactured from aluminum products. From time to time, we, and the aerospace components industry as a whole, have experienced shortages in the availability of aerospace quality aluminum. In addition, we utilize certain materials in the manufacture of our non-aerospace products that, in some cases, may be provided by a limited number of suppliers. Raw material shortages could limit our ability to meet our production needs and adversely affect our ability to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. Also, raw material shortages and capacity constraints at our raw material producers are outside of our control and can cause the price of aluminum to increase. Any significant shortage or price escalation of raw materials such as aluminum could increase our operating costs, which would likely reduce our profits. 19 OEMs in the aerospace industry have significant pricing leverage over suppliers such as ourselves, and may be able to achieve price reductions over time, which could adversely impact our profitability. There is substantial and continuing pressure from OEMs in the aerospace industry on suppliers such as ourselves, to reduce prices for products and services. If we are unable to absorb OEM price reductions through operating cost reductions and other methods, our gross margins, profitability and cash flows could be reduced. Compliance with and changes in environmental, health and safety laws and other laws that regulate the operation of our business and industry standards could increase the cost of production and expose us to regulatory claims. Our operations are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state and local laws and substantial regulation by government agencies, including the United States Environmental Protection Agency, the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Federal Aviation Administration. Among other matters, these agencies impose requirements that: · regulate the operation, handling, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials generated or used by us during the normal course of our operations; · govern the health and safety of our employees; and · require that we meet standards and licensing requirements for aerospace components. In particular, we use and generate hazardous waste in our operations. Consequently, we monitor hazardous waste management and applicable environmental permitting and reporting for compliance with applicable laws at our locations in the ordinary course of our business. We may be subject to potential material liabilities relating to any investigation and cleanup of our locations or properties where we deliver hazardous waste for handling or disposal that may be contaminated and to claims alleging personal injury. In addition, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. The adoption of new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new cleanup requirements could require us to incur costs and become subject to new or increased liabilities that could increase our operating costs and adversely affect the manner in which we conduct our business. While we require Federal Aviation Administration certifications only to a limited extent, we typically are required to maintain third-party registration to industry specification standards, such as AS9100 and National Aerospace and Defense Contractors Accreditation Program, for our quality systems and processes. In fact, many individual OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers require certifications or approvals of our work for them based on third-party registrations in order to engineer and serve the systems and components used in specific aircraft models. If material OEM certifications or approvals were revoked or suspended, OEMs may cease purchasing our products. We are also subject to U.S. Export Regulations, including the Arms Export Control Act (AECA) and associated International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR). Moreover, if in the future new or more stringent governmental regulations are adopted, or industry oversight heightened, such action could result in our incurrence of significant additional costs. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 20 