Item 1A. Risk Factors The financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Partnership are affected by various factors, many of which are beyond the Partnership’s control. These include the following: The receipt of interest and principal payments on our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds will be affected by the economic results of the underlying multifamily properties. Although our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds are issued by state or local housing authorities, they are not obligations of these governmental entities and are not backed by any taxing authority. Instead, each of these revenue bonds is backed by a non-recourse loan made to the owner of the underlying apartment complex and is secured by a 6 Table of Contents first mortgage lien on the property. Because of the non-recourse nature of the underlying mortgage loans, the sole source of cash to pay base and contingent interest, if applicable, on the revenue bond, and to ultimately pay the principal amount of the bond, is the net cash flow generated by the operation of the financed property and the net proceeds from the ultimate sale or refinancing of the property. This makes our investments in these mortgage revenue bonds subject to the kinds of risks usually associated with direct investments in multifamily real estate. If a property is unable to sustain net cash flow at a level necessary to pay its debt service obligations on our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond on the property, a default may occur. Net cash flow and net sale proceeds from a particular property are applied only to debt service payments of the particular mortgage revenue bond secured by that property and are not available to satisfy debt service obligations on other mortgage revenue bonds that we hold. In addition, the value of a property at the time of its sale or refinancing will be a direct function of its perceived future profitability. Therefore, the amount of base and contingent interest that we earn on our mortgage revenue bonds, and whether or not we will receive the entire principal balance of the bonds as and when due, will depend to a large degree on the economic results of the underlying apartment complexes. The net cash flow from the operation of a property may be affected by many things, such as the number of tenants, the rental rates, operating expenses, the cost of repairs and maintenance, taxes, government regulation, competition from other apartment complexes, mortgage rates for single-family housing and general and local economic conditions. In most of the markets in which the properties financed by our bonds are located, there is significant competition from other apartment complexes and from single-family housing that is either owned or leased by potential tenants. Low mortgage interest rates make single-family housing more accessible to persons who may otherwise rent apartments. In the event of a default on a mortgage revenue bond (or a taxable loan on the same property), we will have the right to foreclose on the mortgage or deed of trust securing the property. If we take ownership of the property securing a defaulted revenue bond or taxable loan, we will be entitled to all net cash flow generated by the property. However, such amounts will no longer represent tax-exempt interest to us. The value of the properties is the only source of repayment of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds. The principal of most of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds does not fully amortize over their terms. This means that all or some of the balance of the mortgage loans underlying these bonds will be repaid as a lump-sum “balloon” payment at the end of the term. The ability of the property owners to repay the mortgage loans with balloon payments is dependent upon their ability to sell the properties securing our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds or obtain adequate refinancing. The mortgage revenue bonds are not personal obligations of the property owners, and we rely solely on the value of the properties securing these bonds for security. Similarly, if a tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond goes into default, our only recourse is to foreclose on the underlying multifamily property. If the value of the underlying property securing the bond is less than the outstanding principal balance and accrued interest on the bond, we will suffer a loss. In the event a property securing a tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond is not sold prior to the maturity or remarketing of the bond, any contingent interest payable from the net sale or refinancing proceeds of the underlying property will be determined on the basis of the appraised value of the underlying property. Real estate appraisals represent only an estimate of the value of the property being appraised and are based on subjective determinations, such as the extent to which the properties used for comparison purposes are comparable to the property being evaluated and the rate at which a prospective purchaser would capitalize the cash flow of the property to determine a purchase price. Accordingly, such appraisals may result in us realizing less contingent interest from a tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond than we would have realized had the underlying property been sold. There is additional credit risk when we make a taxable loan on a property. Taxable mortgage loans which we make to owners of the properties which secure mortgage revenue bonds held by us are non-recourse obligations of the property owner. As a result, the sole source of principal and interest payments on these taxable loans is the net cash flow generated by these properties or the net proceeds from the sale of these properties. The net cash flow from the operation of a property may be affected by many things as discussed above. If a property is unable to sustain net cash flow at a level necessary to pay current debt service obligations on 7 Table of Contents our taxable loan on such property, a default may occur. In addition, any payment of principal and interest on a taxable loan on a particular property will be subordinate to payment of all principal and interest (including contingent interest) on the mortgage revenue bond secured by the same property. As a result, there may be a higher risk of default on the taxable loans than on the mortgage revenue bonds. The properties financed by our tax-exempt bonds are not completely insured against damages from hurricanes and other major storms. Three of the multifamily housing properties financed by tax-exempt bonds held by the Partnership are located in Florida in areas that are prone to damage from hurricanes and other major storms. Due to the significant losses incurred by insurance companies on policies written on properties in Florida damaged by hurricanes, property and casualty insurers in Florida have modified their approach to underwriting policies. As a result, the owners of these Florida properties now assume the risk of first loss on a larger percentage of their property’s value. If any of these properties were damaged in a hurricane or other major storm, the losses incurred could be significant and would reduce the cash flow available to pay base or contingent interest on the Partnership’s tax-exempt bonds collateralized by these properties. In general, the current insurance policies on these properties carry a 3% deductible on the insurable value of the properties. The current insurable value of the Florida properties is approximately $51.4 million. We may suffer adverse consequences from changing interest rates. We have financed the acquisition of some of our assets using variable-rate debt financing. The interest that we pay on this financing fluctuates with a specific interest rate index. If the interest rate index increases, our interest expense will increase. This will reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution and may affect the market value of our BUCs. An increase in interest rates could also decrease the value of our tax-exempt mortgage bonds. A decrease in the value of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds could cause the debt financing counterparty to demand additional collateral. If additional collateral is not available, the debt financing could be terminated and some or all of the bonds collateralizing such financing may be sold to repay the debt. In that case, we would lose the net interest income from these bonds. A decrease in the value of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds could also decrease the amount we could realize on the sale of our investments and would decrease the amount of funds available for distribution to our shareholders. There are risks associated with our participation in the P-Float program. In order to obtain debt financing, we have securitized many of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds through the Merrill Lynch P-Float program. Under this program, we deposit a tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond into a trust which issues a senior P-Float to an institutional investor and a residual interest to us. The trust pays interest on the P-Floats and the residual interest from the interest payments received on the underlying tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond. If the trust is unable to pay the full amount of interest due on the P-Float, a default will occur. In addition, if the value of the mortgage revenue bond and any other collateral declines below a specified level, a default will occur. In such event, the trust could be terminated and some or all of the bonds pledged as collateral may be sold to satisfy the debt. In this program, the senior interests sold are credit-enhanced by Merrill Lynch or its affiliate. The inability of Merrill Lynch or its affiliate to perform under the program or impairment of the credit-enhancement may terminate the transaction and cause us to lose the net interest income earned as a result. By using the P-Float program for debt financing, we forego a portion of the interest we would have received on our existing tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds. If we are unable to reinvest the proceeds from this borrowing in investments that generate a greater amount of interest, the amount of net interest income that we receive may decline. 8 Table of Contents Our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds are illiquid assets and their value may decrease. The majority of our assets consist of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds. These mortgage revenue bonds are relatively illiquid, and there is no existing trading market for these mortgage revenue bonds. As a result, there are no market makers, price quotations or other indications of a developed trading market for these mortgage revenue bonds. In addition, no rating has been issued on any of the existing mortgage revenue bonds and we do not expect to obtain ratings on mortgage revenue bonds we may acquire in the future. Accordingly, any buyer of these mortgage revenue bonds would need to perform its own due diligence prior to a purchase. As a result, our ability to sell our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds, and the price we may receive upon their sale, will be affected by the number of potential buyers, the number of similar securities on the market at the time and a number of other market conditions. As a result, such a sale could result in a loss to us. We could be adversely affected if counterparties are unable to fulfill their obligations under our derivative agreements. We have used interest rate swaps and caps to help us mitigate our interest rate risks. However, these derivative transactions do not fully insulate us from the interest rate risks to which we are exposed. A liquid secondary market may not exist for any instruments purchased or sold in those transactions, thus, we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. Moreover, the derivative instruments are required to be marked to market with the difference recognized in earnings as interest expense which can result in significant volatility to reported net income over the term of these instruments. The counterparty to certain of these agreements has the right to convert them to fixed-rate agreements, and it is possible that such a conversion could result in our paying more interest than we would under our variable-rate financing. The rent restrictions and occupant income limitations imposed on properties financed by tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds may limit the revenues of the properties financed by our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds. All of the properties securing our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds are subject to certain federal, state and/or local requirements with respect to the permissible income of their tenants. Since federal subsidies are not generally available on these properties, rents must be charged on a designated portion of the units at a level to permit these units to be continuously occupied by low or moderate income persons or families. As a result, these rents may not be sufficient to cover all operating costs with respect to these units and debt service on the applicable tax-exempt mortgage revenue bond. This may force the property owner to charge rents on the remaining units that are higher than they would be otherwise and may, therefore, exceed competitive rents which may adversely affect the occupancy rate of a property securing an investment and the property owner’s ability to service its debt. The properties securing our revenue bonds may be subject to liability for environmental contamination and thereby increase the risk of default on such bonds. The owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous substances released on its property. Various federal, state and local laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. The properties that secure our revenue bonds, or any additional revenue bonds we acquire in the future, may contain contamination of which we are not aware. The costs associated with the remediation of any such contamination may be significant and may exceed the value of a property, causing the property owner to default on the revenue bond secured by the property. If we acquire direct ownership of apartment properties we will be subject to all of the risks normally associated with the ownership of commercial real estate. We may acquire ownership of apartment complexes financed by tax exempt bonds held by us in the event of a default on such bonds. We may also acquire ownership of apartment complexes on a temporary basis in order to facilitate the eventual acquisition by us of tax exempt mortgage revenue bonds on the properties. In either case, during the time we own an apartment complex we will generate taxable income or losses from the operations of such 9 Table of Contents property rather than tax exempt interest. In addition, we will be subject to all of the risks normally associated with the operation of commercial real estate including declines in property value, occupancy and rental rates and increases in operating expenses. We may also be subject to government regulations, natural disasters and environmental issues, any of which could have an adverse affect on the Partnership’s financial results and ability to make distributions to shareholders. Any future issuances of additional BUCs could cause their market value to decline. We have the authority to issue additional BUCs representing assigned limited partner interests in the Partnership, and we plan to issue such BUCs from time to time. The issuance of additional BUCs could cause dilution of the existing BUCs and a decrease in the market price of the BUCs. If additional BUCs are issued but the Company is unable to invest the additional equity capital in assets that generate tax exempt income at levels at least equivalent to our existing assets, Cash Available for Distributions (“CAD”) may decline. A decline in CAD may result in lower distributions to BUC holders and a lower market price for our BUCs. The Company is not registered under the Investment Company Act. The Company is not required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”) because it operates under an exemption there from. As a result, none of the protections of the Investment Company Act (disinterested directors, custody requirements for securities, and regulation of the relationship between a fund and its advisor) will be applicable to the Company. The Company engages in transactions with related parties. Each of the executive officers of Burlington and four of the managers of Burlington hold equity positions in Burlington. A subsidiary of Burlington acts as our general partner and manages our investments and performs administrative services for us and earns certain fees that are either paid by the properties financed by our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds or by us. Another subsidiary of Burlington provides on-site management for many of the multifamily apartment properties that underlie our tax-exempt bonds and earns fees from the property owners based on the gross revenues of these properties. The shareholders of the limited-purpose corporations which own five of the apartment properties financed with tax-exempt bonds and taxable loans held by the Company are employees of Burlington who are not involved in the operation or management of the Company and who are not executive officers or managers of Burlington. Because of these relationships, our agreements with Burlington and its subsidiaries are related-party transactions. By their nature, related-party transactions may not be considered to have been negotiated at arm’s-length. These relationships may also cause a conflict of interest in other situations where we are negotiating with Burlington. Shareholders may incur tax liability if any of the interest on our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds is determined to be taxable. Certain of our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds bear interest at rates which include contingent interest. Payment of the contingent interest depends on the amount of net cash flow generated by, and net proceeds realized from a sale of, the property securing the bond. Due to this contingent interest feature, an issue may arise as to whether the relationship between the property owner and us is that of debtor and creditor or whether we are engaged in a partnership or joint venture with the property owner. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) were to determine that tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds represented an equity investment in the underlying property, the interest paid to us could be viewed as a taxable return on such investment and would not qualify as tax-exempt interest for federal income tax purposes. We have obtained unqualified legal opinions to the effect that interest on our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds is excludable from gross income for federal income tax purposes which opinions provide that interest paid to a “substantial user” or “related person” (each as defined in the Code) is not exempt from federal income taxation. However, these legal opinions have no binding effect on the IRS or the courts, and no assurances can be given that the conclusions reached will not be contested by the IRS or, if contested, will be sustained by a court. In addition, the tax-exempt status of the interest paid on our tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds is subject to compliance by the underlying properties, and the owners thereof, with the bond documents and covenants required by the bond-issuing authority and the Code. Among these requirements are tenant income 10 Table of Contents restrictions, regulatory agreement compliance, reporting requirements, use of proceeds restrictions and compliance with rules pertaining to arbitrage. Each issuer of the revenue bonds, as well as each of the underlying property owners/borrowers, has covenanted to comply with procedures and guidelines designed to ensure satisfaction with the continuing requirements of the Code. Failure to comply with these continuing requirements of the Code may cause the interest on our bonds to be includable in gross income for federal income tax purposes retroactively to the date of issuance, regardless of when such noncompliance occurs. In addition, we hold residual interests issued in securitization programs which hold tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds, such as the P-Floats/RITES program, which entitle us to a share of the tax-exempt interest of these mortgage revenue bonds. It is possible that the characterization of the residual interest in the P-Floats/RITES program could be challenged and the income that we receive through these instruments could be treated as ordinary taxable income includable in our gross income for federal tax purposes. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department. Changes to the tax law, which may have retroactive application, could adversely affect us and our shareholders. It cannot be predicted whether, when, in what forms or with what effective dates the tax law applicable to us will be changed. Not all of the interest income of the Company is exempt from taxation. We have made, and may make in the future, taxable mortgage loans to the owners of properties which are secured by tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds that we hold. Shareholders will be taxed on their allocable share of this taxable interest income. In any case that interest earned by the Company is taxable, a shareholder’s allocable share of this taxable interest income will be taxable to the shareholder regardless of whether an amount of cash equal to such allocable share is actually distributed to the shareholder. If the Company was determined not to be a partnership for tax purposes, it will have adverse economic consequences for the Company and its shareholders. We are a Delaware limited partnership and have chosen to operate as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, to the extent we generate taxable income, shareholders will be individually liable for income tax on their proportionate share of this taxable income, whether or not we make cash distributions. The ability of shareholders to deduct their proportionate share of the losses and expenses we generate will be limited in certain cases, and certain transactions may result in the triggering of the Alternative Minimum Tax for shareholders who are individuals. If the Company is classified as an association taxable as a corporation rather than as a partnership, we will be taxed on our taxable income, if any, and all distributions made by us to our shareholders would constitute ordinary dividend income taxable to such shareholders to the extent of our earnings and profits, which would include tax-exempt income, as well as any taxable income we might have, and the payment of these dividends would not be deductible by us. The listing of the Company’s BUCs for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market causes the Company to be treated as a “publicly traded partnership” under Section 7704 of the Code. A publicly traded partnership is generally taxable as a corporation unless 90% or more of its gross income is “qualifying” income. Qualifying income includes interest, dividends, real property rents, gain from the sale or other disposition of real property, gain from the sale or other disposition of capital assets held for the production of interest or dividends and certain other items. Substantially all of the Company’s gross income will continue to be tax-exempt interest income on mortgage bonds. We believe that all of this interest income is qualifying income, however, it is possible that some or all of our income could be determined not to be qualifying income. In such a case, if more than 10% of our annual gross income in any year is not qualifying income, the Company will be taxable as a corporation rather than a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not received, and do not intend to seek, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service regarding our status as a partnership for tax purposes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 11 Table of Contents 