ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following is a description of the risk factors relating to the future business, operating results and financial performance of the Bank and the Company. To the extent that any of the information contained in this report constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth are additional cautionary statements that identify important factors that may cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. 18 If difficult market conditions continue, particularly in our geographic market, our results of operations and financial conditions could be adversely affected. We are exposed to downturns in the U.S. real estate market, particularly related to existing residential homes, new residential construction, residential development properties, and commercial real estate. The housing market has experienced dramatic declines over the past three years, greatly affected by falling home prices, increasing foreclosures, and unemployment. All of these have impacted credit performance and resulted in a significant level of write-downs of asset values by the industry, in general, and by our Company, specifically. Because of the concern about the stability of the financial markets, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing credit to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. High levels of unemployment, the weakened U.S. economy and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, a lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of overall business activity. A worsening of these conditions or prolonged economic stagnation would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on our Company and others in the financial institution industry, and could further materially increase our loan losses and further negatively impact our financial condition and operating results. Recent changes in banking regulations could materially affect the Company’s business. The current political environment is demanding increased regulation of the banking industry. Various new regulations have been imposed over the past year, with much additional regulation that has been proposed. Such changing regulation, along with possible changes in tax laws and accounting rules, may have a significant impact on the ways that financial institutions conduct their businesses, implement strategic initiatives, engage in tax planning and make financial disclosures. Complying with increased regulations may increase our costs and limit the availability of our business opportunities. On July 21, 2010, The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act has significantly changed, and will continue to significantly change, the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Bank’s primary federal regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, or OTS, was eliminated in July 2011. The Bank is now subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or OCC, which supervises and regulates all national banks. Existing federal savings bank holding companies, such as the Company, are now subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board, or FRB. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. The Company does not currently have assets in excess of $10 billion, but it may at some point in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act requires minimum leverage (Tier 1) and risk-based capital requirements for savings bank holding companies (effective July 21, 2015) that are no less stringent than those applicable to banks, which will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company level and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in the Bank, and will exclude certain instruments that previously have been eligible for inclusion by bank holding companies as Tier 1 capital, such as trust preferred securities. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. The Company’s performance is dependent on the economic conditions in the market in which it operates. The Company operates primarily within the greater Kansas City area and is influenced by the general economic conditions in Kansas City. Any further adverse changes in economic conditions in our market area could impair our ability to collect loans, obtain and retain customer deposits, and negatively impact our overall financial condition. 19 The current real estate market makes our concentrations in real estate lending susceptible to credit losses. Our loan portfolios are concentrated in real estate lending, which has made, and will continue to make, our loan portfolios susceptible to credit losses in the current real estate market, particularly because of continuing declines in the new home real estate market. Specifically, we have a concentration of residential real estate construction loans and residential land development, most of which are located within the metropolitan Kansas City area. Additionally, we have a concentration of commercial real estate loans that are located around the country. Because of our heightened exposure to credit losses in these concentrations, the downturns in the real estate market and the general economy have resulted in a significant increase in classified assets over the past year. If the current economic environment continues for a prolonged additional period, or deteriorates even further, the asset collateral values may further decline and may result in increased credit losses and foreclosures in these portfolios. If our allowance for loan and lease losses (“ALLL”) is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our provision for losses could increase in future periods, causing a negative impact on operating results. Our borrowers may not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans and, as a result of the declines in home prices, the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay remaining loan balances. We may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. When determining the adequacy of the ALLL, we make various assumptions and subjective judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of real estate and other assets that serve as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the adequacy of the ALLL, we rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience, our evaluation of economic conditions, and asset valuations and appraisals, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our ALLL may not be sufficient to cover the losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which could result in additions to our allowance through provisions for loan losses. Material additions to our allowance would have a material adverse impact on our operating results. The OCC, as an integral part of the regulatory examination process, periodically reviews our loan portfolio. Regulators may require us to add to the allowance for loan losses based on their judgments and interpretations of information available to them at the time of their examinations. Any increase that the regulators require in our allowance for loan losses would negatively impact our operating results in the period in which the increase occurs. The Company uses valuation methodologies, estimations and assumptions for certain assets and loan collateral which are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to asset or collateral valuations that could have an adverse material impact on the Company’s financial condition or operating results. The Company uses estimates, assumptions and judgments when measuring the fair value of financial assets, liabilities and loan collateral. Fair values and the information used to record valuation adjustments are based on quoted market prices, third-party appraisals and/or other observable inputs provided by third-party sources, when available. Any changes in underlying factors, assumptions or estimates in any of these areas could materially impact the Company’s future financial condition and operating results. During periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain assets if comparable sales become less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. Certain classes of assets or loan collateral that were in active markets with significant observable data may become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, asset valuations may require more estimation and subjective judgment. The rapidly changing real estate market conditions could materially impact the valuation of assets and loan collateral as reported within the Company’s financial statements and changes in estimated values could vary significantly from one period to the next. Decreases in value may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s future financial condition or operating results. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations are largely dependent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest we earn on our earning-asset portfolio and the interest paid on our cost of liability portfolio. Market interest rates are beyond the Company’s control, and they can fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence market rates and prices for loan originations, purchases of investment securities, and customer deposit accounts. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition because the majority of our assets included in the earning-asset portfolio are long-term, fixed-rate loans, while the majority of our interest-bearing liabilities are shorter term, and therefore subject to a greater degree of interest rate fluctuation. This type of risk is known as interest rate risk, and is affected by prevailing economic and competitive conditions. 20 The impact of changes in interest rates on the interest earning-asset portfolio is generally observed on the balance sheet and income statement in later periods than the impact of changes on liability portfolio due to the duration of assets versus liabilities, and also to the time lag between our commitment to originate or purchase a loan and the time we fund the loan, during which time interest rates may change. Interest-bearing liabilities tend to reflect changes in interest rates closer to the time of market rate changes, so the difference in timing may have an adverse effect on our net interest income. Changes in interest rates can also have an adverse effect on our financial condition, as certain assets, including loans held for sale, are reported at their estimated fair value, and therefore may be impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. Changes in interest rates, as they relate to customers, can also have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In times of rising interest rates, default risk may increase among customers with ARM loans as the rates on their loans adjust upward and their payments increase. Rising interest rate environments also entice customers with ARM loans to refinance into fixed-rate loans further exposing the Bank to additional interest rate risk. If the loan is refinanced externally, we could be unable to reinvest cash received from the resulting prepayments at rates comparable to existing loans, which subjects us to reinvestment risk. In decreasing interest rate environments, payments received will likely be invested at the prevailing (decreased) market rate. An influx of prepayments can result in an excess of liquidity, which could impact our net interest income if profitable reinvestment opportunities are not immediately available. Prepayment rates are based on demographics, local economic factors, and seasonality, with the main factors affecting prepayment rates being prevailing interest rates and competition. Fluctuations in interest rates also affect customer demand for deposit products. Local competition for deposit dollars could affect our ability to attract deposits, or could result in us paying more for deposits. Changes in income tax laws or interpretations or in accounting standards could materially affect our financial condition or results of operations. Changes in income tax laws could be enacted or interpretations of existing income tax laws could change causing an adverse effect to our financial condition or results of operations. Similarly, our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets, liabilities, and financial results. Periodically, new accounting standards are imposed or existing standards are revised, changing the methods for preparing our financial statements. Such changes are not within our control and could significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to liquidity risk that could impair our ability to fund operations. Liquidity is essential to our business and we rely on a number of different sources in order to meet our potential liquidity demands. Our primary sources of liquidity are our retail and wholesale customer deposit accounts, cash flows from payments and sales of loans and securities, and advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank. Any inability to raise or retain funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or by factors affecting the financial services industry in general. Even if funding remains available, issues of liquidity pricing could raise the Company’s cost of funds and have an adverse material impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. Any loss of key personnel could adversely affect our operations. The Company’s success is, in large part, dependent on its ability to attract and retain key employees. Management believes it has implemented effective succession planning strategies to reduce the potential impact of the loss of certain key personnel; however, because of their skill-level and experience, the unexpected loss of key personnel could have an adverse material impact on the Company’s business. We are subject to various legal claims and litigation. We are periodically involved in routine litigation incidental to our business. Regardless of whether these claims and legal actions are founded or unfounded, if such legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the Company’s reputation. In addition, litigation can be costly. Any financial liability, litigation costs or reputational damage caused by these legal claims could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company operates in a competitive industry and market area. The financial services industry in which the Company operates is rapidly changing with numerous types of competitors including banks, thrifts, insurance companies, and mortgage bankers. Consolidation in the industry is accelerating and there are many new changes in technology, products, and regulations. We believe the competition for retail deposit accounts is especially significant in our market area. The Company must continue to invest in products and delivery systems in order to remain competitive or its financial performance may be impacted negatively. 21 Any electronic system failure or breach to our network security could increase our operating costs or impair the Company’s reputation. The Bank provides customers with electronic banking options, including online banking, bill payment services, online account opening and online loan applications. Management has implemented a layered security approach which incorporates all reasonable means of protection for its electronic services; however, there can be no absolute assurances that failures, interruptions, or electronic security breaches will not occur. The Bank outsources processing of its core data system, in addition to other systems such as online bill payment services and online account opening, to third party vendors. Prior to establishing an outsourcing relationship, and on an ongoing basis thereafter, management monitors key vendors controls and procedures related to information technology, which includes reviewing reports of service auditor’s examinations performed in accordance with Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements No. 16, Reporting on Controls at a Service Organization. Should any of our electronic systems be compromised, the Company’s reputation could be damaged and/or relationships with customers impaired. A loss of business could result and the Company could incur significant expenses in remedying the security breach. The FDIC’s changes in the calculation of deposit insurance premiums and ability to levy special assessments could increase our non-interest expense and may reduce our profitability. The Dodd-Frank Act required the FDIC to amend its regulations to redefine the assessment base used for calculating deposit insurance assessments. On February 9, 2011, the FDIC adopted a final rule that defines the assessment base as the average consolidated total assets during the assessment period minus the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period. The FDIC also imposed a new assessment rate scale. Under the new system, banks will pay a base assessment at a rate between 5 and 35 basis points per assets minus tangible equity, depending upon an institution’s risk category (the final rule also includes progressively lower assessment rate schedules when the FDIC’s reserve ratio reaches certain levels). The rulemaking changes the current assessment rate schedule so the schedule will result in the collection of assessment revenue that is approximately the same as generated under the current rate schedule and current assessment base. Nearly all banks with assets less than $10 billion will pay smaller deposit insurance assessments as a result of the new rule. The majority of the changes in the FDIC’s final rule became effective on April 1, 2011. The FDIC has the statutory authority to impose special assessments on insured depository institutions in an amount, and for such purposes, as the FDIC may deem necessary. The change in the calculation methodology for deposit insurance premiums and the possible emergency special assessments could increase our non-interest expense and may adversely affect our profitability. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by our regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support the growth of our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may elect to raise additional capital for other reasons. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Although we are not aware of any requests for additional capital at this time, should we elect or be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock, which could dilute your ownership interest in the Company. The future cost and availability of capital may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside of our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed or on terms acceptable to us, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A downgrade of the United States’ credit rating could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent months, each of Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s Corp. and Fitch Ratings has publicly warned of the possibility of a downgrade to the United States’ credit rating. On August 5, 2011, S&P downgraded its rating of the United States’ debt to AA+. Each of Moody’s and Fitch has maintained its rating of U.S. debt at AAA. Any credit downgrade (whether by S&P, Moody’s, or Fitch), and the attendant perceived risk that the United States may not pay its debt obligations when due, could have a material adverse effect on financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and throughout the world. In turn, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 22 