Item 1A. Risk Factors The financial statements contained in this report and the related discussion describe and analyze the Company’s financial performance and condition for the periods indicated. For the most part, this information is historical. The Company’s prior results are not necessarily indicative of the Company’s future performance or financial condition. The Company therefore has included in this report a discussion of certain factors which could affect the Company’s future performance or financial condition. These factors could cause the Company’s future performance or financial condition to differ materially from its prior performance or financial condition or from management’s expectations or estimates of the Company’s future performance or financial condition. Dependence on New Product Introductions; Uncertain Consumer Acceptance The Company's ultimate success depends, in large part, on its ability to successfully develop and introduce new products widely accepted in the marketplace. Historically, a large portion of new golf club technologies and product designs have been met with consumer rejection. Certain products previously introduced by the Company have not met the level of consumer acceptance anticipated by management. No assurance can be given that the Company's current or future products will be met with consumer acceptance. Failure by the Company to timely identify and develop innovative new products that achieve widespread market acceptance would adversely affect the Company's continued success and viability. Additionally, successful technologies, designs and product concepts are likely to be copied by competitors. Accordingly, the Company's operating results could fluctuate as a result of the amount, timing, and market acceptance of new product introductions by the Company or its competitors. If the Company is unable to develop new products that will ultimately be widely accepted by a wide range of customers, it will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results from operations. The design of new golf clubs is also greatly influenced by the rules and interpretations of the USGA. Although the golf equipment standards established by the USGA generally apply only to competitive events sanctioned by the organization, the Company believes that it is critical for its future success that new clubs introduced by the Company comply with USGA standards. The Company invests significant resources in the development of new products and efforts to comply with USGA standards may hinder or delay development of the product and adversely effect revenues and customer demand. Additionally, increased costs associated with complying to USGA standards could reduce margins and adversely effect the results of operations. Uncertainty Regarding Continuation of Profitability While the Company generated net income during the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, it has not done so historically on a consistent basis. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to increase or maintain revenues or continue such profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. An inability to continue such improvements in the Company's financial performance could jeopardize the Company's ability to develop, enhance, and market products, retain qualified personnel, and take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. 11 Need for Additional Capital No assurances can be given that the Company will have sufficient cash resources beyond twelve months or to fund our operations over a length of time. Historically, the Company has funded capital expenditures for operations through cash flow from operations. To the extent our cash requirements or assumptions change, the Company may have to raise additional capital and/or further curtail its operating expenses, including further operational restructurings. If the Company needs to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of the stockholders of the Company would be reduced, stockholders could experience additional dilution, and/or such equity securities could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the Company's common stock. Nevertheless, given the current market price for the Company's common stock and the state of the capital markets generally, the Company does not expect that it would be able to raise funds through the issuance of its capital stock in the foreseeable future. The Company may also find it difficult to secure additional debt financing beyond the current credit facility. There can be no assurance that financing will be available if needed on terms favorable to the Company, or at all. Accordingly, it is possible that the only sources of funding are current cash reserves, projected cash flows from operations and up to $10.0 million of borrowings available under the Company's revolving credit facility. Increasing Competition The golf club market is highly competitive. The Company competes with a number of established golf club manufacturers, some of which have greater financial and other resources than the Company. The Company's competitors include Callaway Golf Company, adidas-Salomon AG (Taylor Made - adidas Golf), Nike, Inc. (Nike Golf), Fortune Brands, Inc. (Titleist and Cobra) and Karsten Assembly Company (PING), among others. The Company competes primarily on the basis of performance, brand name recognition, quality and price. The Company believes that its ability to market its products through multiple distribution channels, including on- and off- course golf shops and other retailers, is important to the manner in which the Company competes. The purchasing decisions of many golfers are often the result of highly subjective preferences, which can be influenced by many factors, including, among others, advertising, media, promotions and product endorsements. These preferences may also be subject to rapid and unanticipated changes. The Company could face substantial competition from existing or new competitors who introduce and successfully promote golf clubs that achieve market acceptance. Such competition could result in significant price erosion or increased promotional expenditures, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and/or financial condition. There can be no assurance that Adams Golf will be able to compete successfully against current and future sources of competition or that its business, operating results and/or financial condition will not be adversely affected by increased competition in the markets in which it operates. The golf club industry is generally characterized by rapid and widespread imitation of popular technologies, designs and product concepts. Due to the success of the Tight Lies fairway woods, several competitors introduced products similar to the Tight Lies fairway woods. Should the Company's recently introduced product lines achieve widespread market success, it is reasonable to expect that the Company's current and future competitors would move quickly to introduce similar products that would directly compete with the new product lines. The Company may face competition from manufacturers introducing other new or innovative products or successfully promoting golf clubs that achieve market acceptance. Accordingly, the Company's operating results could fluctuate as a result of amount, timing and market acceptance of new products introduced by the Company or the Company's competitors. The failure to successfully compete in the future could result in a material deterioration of customer loyalty and the Company's image, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. The introduction of new products by the Company or its competitors can be expected to result in closeouts of existing inventories at both the wholesale and retail levels. Such closeouts are likely to result in reduced margins on the sale of older products, as well as reduced sales of new products given the availability of older products at lower prices. As the new Idea A2 and A2 OS Irons and the Redline RPM product line of fairway woods and drivers were introduced, older product lines such as the original Tight Lies, Redline fairway woods and drivers, Ovation and Tight Lies GT fairway woods and drivers experienced reductions in price at both wholesale and retail levels. 12 Dependence on Key Personnel and Endorsements The Company's success depends to an extent upon the performance of its management team, which includes the Company's Chief Executive Officer and President, Oliver G. (Chip) Brewer, III, who participates in all aspects of the Company's operations, including product development and sales efforts. The loss or unavailability of Mr. Brewer could adversely affect the Company's business and prospects. In addition, Mr. Tim Reed joined the management team in 2001 in the capacity of Vice President of Research and Development. Mr. Reed's inability to continue to lead his team to develop innovative products could also adversely affect the Company's business. With the exception of the Company's Chairman of the Board of Directors, B.H. (Barney) Adams, and Mr. Brewer, none of the Company's officers and employees are bound by employment agreements, and the relations of such officers and employees are, therefore, at will. The Company established key-men life insurance policies on the lives of Mr. Brewer and Mr. Reed; however, there can be no assurance that the proceeds of these policies could adequately compensate the Company for the loss of their services. In addition, there is strong competition for qualified personnel in the golf club industry, and the inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate other key personnel could adversely affect the Company's business, operating results and/or financial condition. In the past, the Company has entered into endorsement arrangements with certain members of the PGA Tour and the Champions PGA Tour, including Tom Watson, Bubba Dickerson, D.A. Weibring, Dana Quigley, Allen Doyle, and other notable players. The loss of one or more of these endorsement arrangements could adversely affect the Company's marketing and sales efforts and, accordingly, its business, operating results and/or financial condition. From time to time, the Company negotiates with and signs endorsement contracts with either existing or new tour players. As is typical in the golf industry generally, the agreements with these professional golfers do not necessarily require that they use the Company's golf clubs at all times during the terms of the respective agreements, including, in certain circumstances, at times when the Company is required to make payments to them. The failure of certain individuals to use the Company's products on one or more occasions has resulted in negative publicity involving the Company. No assurance can be given that the Company's business would not be adversely affected in a material way by negative publicity or by the failure of its known professional endorsers to carry and use the Company's products. Effectiveness of Marketing Strategy The Company has designed it's marketing strategy to include advertising efforts in multiple media avenues such as television airtime on golf related events, product education for the consumer through an internet website, publications including periodicals and brochures, and in store media such as point of purchase displays and product introduction fact sheets. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company spent approximately $5.0 million, $5.1 million and $3.5 million, respectively, on golf related events, publications and other methods of media. There can be no assurances that a fluctuation in the levels of investments in advertising spending will not result in material fluctuations in the sales of the Company's products. Source of Supply The Company has put into place a purchasing procedure that strives to negotiate effective terms with various vendors while continuing to ensure the quality of components. The Company is continually re-evaluating existing vendors while testing potential new vendors for all the various product lines offered by the Company. At any time, the Company may purchase a substantial majority of its volume of a specific component part from a single vendor, but the Company continually strives to maintain a primary and several secondary suppliers for each component part. Substantially all of the Company's fairway wood, driver, iron, i-wood, wedge and putter component parts are manufactured in China and Taiwan. The Company could, in the future, experience shortages of components for reasons including but not limited to the suppliers production capacity or materials shortages, or periods of increased price pressures, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. 13 The Company’s products require specific materials to meet design specification which include but are not limited to steel, titanium alloys, carbon fiber and rubber. The Company does not make these materials itself, and must rely on its supplier’s ability to obtain adequate quantities of the materials necessary for manufacturing and production. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to do so at a reasonable price. An interruption in the supply of the materials used by the Company or a significant change in costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Adequate Product Warranty Reserves The Company provides a limited one year product warranty on all of its golf clubs with the exception of the graphite tip (GT) and BiMatrx steel tip (ST) shafts used in a variety of the Company's product lines. These shafts carry a five year warranty for defects in quality and workmanship. The Company closely monitors the level and nature of warranty claims, and, where appropriate, seeks to incorporate design and production changes to assure its customers of the highest quality available in the market. Significant increases in the incidence of such claims may adversely affect the Company's sales and its reputation with consumers. The Company establishes a reserve for warranty claims. There can be no assurance that this reserve will be sufficient if the Company were to experience an unusually high incidence of problems with its products. Risks Associated with Intellectual Property Protection Imitation of popular club design is widespread in the golf industry. No assurance can be given that other golf club manufacturers will not be able to successfully sell golf clubs that imitate the Company's products without infringing on the Company's copyrights, patents, trademarks or trade dress. Many of the Company's competitors have obtained patent, trademark, copyright or other protection of intellectual property rights pertaining to golf clubs. No assurance can be given that the Company will not be adversely affected by the assertion by competitors that the Company's designs infringe on such competitor's intellectual property rights. Litigation in respect to patents or other intellectual property matters, whether with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources, cause delays or other problems in the marketing and sales of our products, or require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition. This effect could also include alteration or withdrawal of the Company's existing products and delayed introduction of new products. The Company attempts to maintain the secrecy of its confidential business information, including engaging in the practice of having prospective vendors and suppliers sign confidentiality agreements when producing components of new technology. No assurance can be given that the Company's confidential business information will be adequately protected in all instances. The unauthorized use of the Company's confidential business information could adversely affect the Company. Unauthorized Distribution and Counterfeit Clubs Some quantities of the Company's products have been found in unapproved outlets or distribution channels, including unapproved retailers conducting business on common internet auction sites. The existence of a "gray market" in the Company's products can undermine the sales of authorized retailers and foreign wholesale distributors who promote and support the Company's products and can injure the Company's image in the minds of its customers and consumers. The Company does not believe the unauthorized distribution of its products can be totally eliminated. There can be no assurances that unauthorized distribution of the Company's clubs will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition and/or competitive position. In addition, the Company is occasionally made aware of the existence of counterfeit copies of its golf clubs, particularly in foreign markets. The Company takes action in these situations through local authorities and legal counsel where practical. However, the inability to effectively deter counterfeit efforts could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition and/or competitive position. 14 Accounts Receivable Customer Terms Due to industry sensitivity to consumer buying trends and available disposable income, the Company has in the past extended payment terms for specific retail customers. Issuance of these terms (i.e. greater than 30 days or specific dating) is dependent on the Company's relationship with the customer and the customer's payment history typically during off-peak times in the year. These extended terms do have a negative impact on the Company's financial position and liquidity. In addition, the reserves established by the Company may not be adequate in the event that the customer's financial strength weakens significantly. Sufficient Inventory Levels In addition to extended payment terms to our customers, the nature of the industry also requires that the Company carry a substantial level of inventory due to the lead times associated with purchasing components overseas coupled with the seasonality of customer demand. The Company's inventory balances were approximately $16,151,000 and $11,558,000 at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. If the Company were unable to maintain sufficient inventory to meet customer demand on a timely basis, the effect could result in cancellation of customer orders, loss of customers, and damage to the Company's reputation. In addition, carrying a substantial level of inventory has an adverse effect on the Company's financial position and liquidity. Certain Risks of Conducting Business Abroad The Company imports a significant portion of its component parts, including heads, shafts, headcovers, and grips from companies in China, Taiwan and Mexico. In addition, the Company sells its products to certain distributors located outside the United States. The Company's international business is currently centered in Canada, Europe and Asia, and management intends to focus its international efforts through agency and distributor relationships. International sales accounted for 14% of the Company’s net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005. The Company's business is subject to the risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign government relations, foreign consumer preferences, import and export control, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments and changes in economic conditions and exchange rates in countries in which the Company purchases components or sells its products. Recent foreign events, including, without limitation, continuing U.S. military operations and the resulting instability in Iraq, could potentially cause a delay in imports or exports due to heightened security with customs. Seasonality and Quarterly Fluctuations Golf generally is regarded as a warm weather sport, and net sales of golf equipment have been historically strongest for the Company during the first and second quarters. In addition, net sales of golf clubs are dependent on discretionary consumer spending, which may be affected by general economic conditions. A decrease in consumer spending generally could result in decreased spending on golf equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and/or financial condition. In addition, the Company's future results of operations could be affected by a number of other factors, such as unseasonable weather patterns such as hurricanes, which interrupt the sales patterns and could generate hardships for customers in the effected area, demand for and market acceptance of the Company's existing and future products; new product introductions by the Company's competitors; competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected selling prices; and the volume of orders that are received and that can be fulfilled in a quarter. Any one or more of these factors could adversely affect the Company or result in the Company failing to achieve its expectations as to future sales or operating results. 15 Because most operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, the Company may be unable to adjust spending sufficiently in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected sales shortfall that could materially adversely affect quarterly results of operations and liquidity. If technological advances by competitors or other competitive factors require the Company to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development or sales and marketing efforts, the Company's business, operating results and/or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Accordingly, the Company believes that period-to-period comparisons of its results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. In addition, the results of any quarter are not indicative of results to be expected for a full fiscal year. As a result of fluctuating operating results or other factors discussed in this report, in certain future quarters the Company's results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. In such event, the market price of the Company's common stock could be materially adversely affected. Rapid Growth, increased demand for product If the Company is successful in obtaining rapid market growth for various golf clubs, the Company may be required to deliver large volumes of quality products to customers on a timely basis which could potentially require the Company to increase the production facility, increase purchasing of raw materials or finished goods, increase the size of the workforce, expand the quality control capabilities, or incur additional expenses associated with sudden increases in demand. Any combination of one or more of the listed factors could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s operations and financial position. Anti-Takeover Provisions The Company's Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws (the "Bylaws") contain, among other things, provisions establishing a classified Board of Directors, authorizing shares of preferred stock with respect to which the Board of Directors of the Company has the power to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions without any further vote or action by the stockholders, requiring that all stockholder action be taken at a stockholders' meeting and establishing certain advance notice requirements in order for stockholder proposals or director nominations to be considered at such meetings. In addition, the Company is subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the "DGCL"). In general this statute prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a "business combination" with an "interested stockholder" for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Such provision could delay, deter or prevent a merger, consolidation, tender offer, or other business combination or change of control involving the Company that some or a majority of the Company's stockholders might consider to be in its best interest, including offers or attempted takeovers that might otherwise result in such stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for the common stock. The potential issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of the Company, may discourage bids for the common stock at a premium over the market price of the common stock and may adversely affect the market price of and voting and other rights of the holders of the common stock. The Company has not issued and currently has no plans to issue shares of preferred stock. Item 