Item 1A. Risk Factors Our success is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below. These factors could hinder our growth, cause us to sustain losses or have other adverse effects on us, which could individually or collectively cause our stock price to decline. The following list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. The success of our business depends on sustaining or growing our license and contract revenue. License and contract revenue consists of technology license fees paid for access to our developed technology (and in some cases, our patents), associated maintenance agreements and engineering service fees related to technology under development. Our ability to secure the licenses from which our contract revenues are derived depends on our customers, including semiconductor companies and digital consumer, mobile, wireless, connectivity and business product manufacturers, adopting our technology and using it in the products they sell. As compared to the prior year, our license and contract revenue decreased by 9% in fiscal 2010. However, our license and contract revenue increased by 12% in fiscal 2011 and 35% in fiscal 2012 as compared to prior year. The fiscal 2012 increase was due to the Broadcom License. Changes in the size and nature of the license agreements that we enter into in a given period could cause our operating results to differ significantly from one period to another. We license our embedded processor intellectual property in the form of both architectures and specific processor cores. Our license agreements include both limited and unlimited uses of our products; however, all licenses contain a limitation on the number of years that a license is valid and only cover those products specifically licensed and available at the time of the license. Under unlimited use license agreements, customers typically pay a larger fixed, up-front fee for the unlimited use of (i) one or more of our MIPS-developed cores or (ii) our architecture to develop their own MIPS-compatible cores during the term of the agreement. Architecture license agreements are not as common as core license agreements. The company currently has 13 active architecture customers. In addition, in June 2012 we entered into the Broadcom License that included Broadcom’s rights to use our patent portfolio as well as providing them an extension on existing architecture and core licenses for our products. However, no assurance can be given that we will be able to enter into future license agreements related to our patent portfolio or that we will be successful in our strategic efforts around patent monetization. We recognize all license revenues under limited and unlimited use license agreements upon execution of the agreement, provided all revenue recognition criteria have been met. License revenue from unlimited use license agreements was 51% in fiscal 2010, 61% in fiscal 2011 and 86% in fiscal 2012 of our total license and contract revenue. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, license revenue from unlimited use license agreements was 94% of our total license and contract revenue. The revenue recognized by a license-based business can vary significantly from period, depending on the number and size of the license deals closed during the quarter. As a result, it is difficult to predict the level of licensing activity in future periods. Our licensees are not obligated to license new or future generations of our products, so past license and contract revenue may not be indicative of the amount of such revenue in any future period. In addition, consolidation, merger and acquisition activity involving our customers and potential customers may limit our ability to enter into new license agreements, as such activity reduces the number of potential licensees for our products. If we cannot maintain or grow our contract revenue or if our customers do not adopt our technology and obtain corresponding licenses, our results of operations will be adversely affected. 13 We compete against much larger companies in the microprocessor IP market that have larger market share and broader lines of products. Some of our competitors, including Intel Corporation and ARM Holdings plc, have significant financial resources enabling them to market their products aggressively and to target our customers with special incentives. As long as Intel and ARM remain in their dominant position, we may be negatively impacted by their business practices, product mix and product introduction schedules, marketing strategies and exclusivity clauses with customers. In addition, Intel and ARM have substantially greater financial resources than we do and, accordingly, spend substantially greater amounts on research and development and marketing than we do. We expect Intel and ARM to maintain their dominant market positions and to continue to invest heavily in marketing, research and development and in other technology companies. To the extent our competitors develop microprocessor products using more advanced process technologies or introduce competitive new products into the market before we do, our financial condition and operating results will be adversely impacted. We may not be successful in our strategic efforts around patent monetization. Our future success depends in part on our ability to monetize our patents. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, we entered into a license agreement with Broadcom Corporation, pursuant to which we licensed our patents and received a license fee of $26.5 million. We have historically not licensed our patent portfolio in connection with our licensing business model, and it is difficult to predict if we will be able to enter into future license agreements for our patent portfolio. If we do not enter into future patent license agreements, and we are not otherwise successful in alternative patent monetization strategies, our financial condition, revenue and results of operations could be adversely impacted in the future. In addition, our ability (or inability) to successfully conclude patent license agreements in any given quarter may have a significant impact on our quarterly revenue. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that we will be able to enter into future license agreements related to our patent portfolio or that we will be successful in our strategic efforts around patent monetization. Our royalty revenue may be adversely affected by a number of factors. Our royalty revenue may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including certain contractual provisions in our license agreements and consolidation activity in our customer base. A number of our license agreements have provisions that allow a customer to pay a lower contractual royalty rate based on volume of customer products shipped or the passage of time. In addition, consolidation activity in our customer base may also negatively impact our royalties. For example, one of our customers was recently acquired by one of our largest customers, and the acquiring customer has historically paid a lower royalty rate than the acquired customer. In these situations, the combined entity will often seek to pay us royalties based on the lower royalty rate. Furthermore, a combined entity will likely reach a volume-based royalty reduction (if applicable to such customer) at a faster pace, due to the higher number of units shipped by the combined entity. Similar consolidation events in the future in our customer base would likely have an adverse effect on our royalties. Further, our royalty revenue can be affected by the average prices at which our customers sell their products as some royalties are based on the revenue recognized by our customers. Since a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a few significant customers, the loss of a key customer or any significant delay in our customers’ product development plans could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business. In addition, if we are unable to continue to sell existing and new products to our key customers or to attract new significant customers, our future operating results could be adversely affected. We have derived a substantial portion of our past revenue from sales to and royalties from a relatively small number of customers. As a result, the loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Revenue from our five largest customers represented approximately 63% and 43% of our net revenue in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue for the foreseeable future. 14 In addition, consolidation, merger and acquisition activity involving our customers may increase our reliance on our largest customers. Our largest customers, and their respective contributions to our net revenue, have varied from time to time and will probably continue to vary. We may not be able to maintain or increase revenue from certain of our key customers for a variety of reasons, including the following: · our agreements with our customers typically do not provide for minimum royalties; · many of our customers have pre-existing or concurrent relationships with our current or potential competitors that may affect the customers’ decisions to purchase our products; and · some of our customers face intense competition from other manufacturers that do not use our products. The loss of a key customer, a reduction in the contractual royalty rate of a customer based on volume or the passage of time, a reduction in royalty units used by any key customer, a significant delay in our customers’ product development plans or our inability to attract new significant customers could adversely impact our revenue and our results of operations. Our financial results could be negatively impacted by economic conditions. The markets served by the Company, and those of our customers, can be highly cyclical, and our financial results, both our royalty revenue and our ability to secure new contracts, could be impacted by consumer spending in the U.S. and global economies. In addition, from time to time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns and our prospects and results are influenced in a significant way by conditions in this industry. Royalty revenues depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions, including business and consumer spending, and license and contract revenues depend on the willingness of our potential customers to invest in new products, and both our royalty revenue and our license and contract revenue may be impacted by weak economic conditions in consumer spending and infrastructure spending. Some of the factors that could influence the levels of consumer and infrastructure spending include continuing increases in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence, the threat of sovereign default and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. In addition, recent economic volatility could lead to a number of follow-on effects on our business, including insolvency issues with our customers or suppliers. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, and on our financial condition and operating results. 15 Our financial results are subject to significant fluctuations that could adversely affect our stock price. Our financial results may vary significantly due to a number of factors. In addition, our revenue components are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Because our revenues are somewhat independent of our expenses in any particular period, it is difficult to accurately forecast our operating results. Our operating expenses are based, in part, on anticipated future revenue and a very high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short term. As a result, if our revenue is below expectations in any quarter, the adverse effect may be magnified by our inability to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for the revenue shortfall. Therefore, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. It is possible that in some future periods our results of operations may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our common stock may fall. Factors that could cause our revenue and operating results to vary from quarter to quarter include: · our ability to identify attractive licensing opportunities and then enter into new licensing agreements (which may include licensing agreements related to our patent portfolio) on terms that are acceptable to us; · our ability to successfully conclude licensing agreements of any significant value in a given quarter; · the financial terms and delivery schedules of our contractual arrangements with our licensees, which may provide for significant up-front payments, payments based on the achievement of certain milestones or extended payment terms; · the demand for products that incorporate our technology; · our ability to develop, introduce and market new intellectual property; · the establishment or loss of licensing relationships with semiconductor companies or digital consumer, mobile, wireless, connectivity and business product manufacturers; · consolidation, merger and acquisition activity of our customer base, or customers developing competing products internally, which may cause delays or loss of sales; · the amount and timing of royalty payments; · the timing of new products and product enhancements by us and our competitors; · changes in development schedules, research and development expenditure levels and product support by us and semiconductor companies and digital consumer, mobile, wireless, connectivity and business product manufacturers; and · changes in economic and market conditions. 16 Our ability to achieve design wins may be limited unless we are able to develop enhancements and new generations of our intellectual property. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop enhancements and new generations of our processors, cores or other intellectual property that satisfy the requirements of specific product applications and introduce these new technologies to the marketplace in a timely manner. If our development efforts are not successful or are significantly delayed, or if the characteristics of our IP product offerings and related designs are not compatible with the requirements of specific product applications, our ability to achieve design wins may be limited. Our failure to achieve a significant number of design wins would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Technical innovations of the type critical to our success are inherently complex and involve several risks, including: · our ability to anticipate and timely respond to changes in the requirements of semiconductor companies, and system original equipment manufacturers, or system OEMs, of digital consumer, mobile, wireless, connectivity and business products; · our ability to anticipate and timely respond to changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes; · changing customer preferences in the digital consumer, mobile, wireless, connectivity and business products markets; · the emergence of new standards in the semiconductor industry and for digital consumer, mobile, wireless, connectivity and business products; · the development of platforms, such as Android, by third parties and the selection of preferred solutions for such platforms; · the significant investment in a potential product that is often required before commercial viability is determined; and · the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. Our failure to adequately address these risks could render our existing IP product offerings and related designs obsolete and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will have the financial and other resources necessary to develop IP product offerings and related designs in the future, or that any enhancements or new generations of the technology that we develop will generate revenue sufficient to cover or in excess of the costs of development. Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. From January 1, 2008 through June 30, 2012 our common stock has traded at prices as low as $1.00 and as high as $18.19 per share. Fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which we cannot control. 17 In addition, the market prices of securities of Internet-related, semiconductor and other technology companies have been and remain volatile. The market prices of securities of many technology companies have fluctuated significantly for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, who may derive their expectations by extrapolating data from recent historical operating results, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. Due to the nature of our compensation programs, some of our executive officers sell shares of our common stock each quarter or otherwise periodically (including pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 stock trading plans). Sales of shares by our executive officers may not be indicative of their respective opinions of our performance at the time of sale or of our potential future performance. Nevertheless, the market price of our stock may be affected by sales of shares by our executive officers. If we do not succeed in the market for mobile products, our revenue growth may be adversely impacted. We believe that our future success depends in part on our ability to develop software, processor cores or other intellectual property that satisfies the requirements of developers, chip suppliers and manufacturers in the market for mobile products, such as handsets, tablet computers, portable media players and netbooks. If our development efforts for mobile products are not successful or if our IP product offerings and related designs are not widely adopted, our ability to achieve design wins in this market may be limited, and this may in turn adversely affect our medium to long term revenue growth. In addition, the proliferation of the Android platform (and other mobile-related technologies) beyond the market for mobile handsets may increase our reliance on such technologies in attempting to achieve design wins in other markets, including the market for digital consumer products. Further, with our focus on the mobile products market we are, to some extent, foregoing other uses of our research and development and marketing resources, and if this focus is not successful we may fail to capitalize on opportunities available in other markets. If we do not succeed on key platforms, including Android, our ability to compete and grow may be adversely impacted. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to develop software, processor cores or other intellectual property that satisfies the requirements of key platforms, such as Android. If our development efforts are not successful or are significantly delayed, or if the characteristics of our IP product offerings and related designs are not compatible with the requirements of key platforms, our ability to achieve design wins may be limited. In addition, the proliferation of the Android platform and Android-based applications beyond the market for mobile handsets may increase our reliance on Android-related technology in attempting to achieve design wins in the market for digital consumer products, including high-end digital televisions. Competition for the development of technologies for the Android platform is rapidly developing and remains intense. Our ability to remain competitive may be adversely affected if platform owners select competing technologies as preferred solutions for such platforms. To date, most owners have not favored any particular technology for products based on their platform. However, a decision by a platform owner to standardize on a technology offering provided by a competitor may affect the decisions of potential licensees when considering technology offerings provided by MIPS. 18 If we fail to achieve a significant number of design wins with respect to platforms like Android, our medium to longer term revenue growth may be adversely impacted. Furthermore, even if we are successful in developing technologies based on Android or other key platforms, those platforms and our technology offerings for such platforms may not be widely adopted in the industry, which may also limit our growth opportunities. As international business is a significant component of our revenue, we are increasingly exposed to various legal, business, political and economic risks associated with our international operations. For our fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, 38%, 54% and 59%, respectively, of our net revenue was derived from sales to customers outside the United States. We have sales and operations in China as well as sales offices in Germany, Japan, Israel, Korea and Taiwan. We intend to continue our international business activities. International operations are subject to many inherent risks, including but not limited to: · changes in tax laws, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; · potential difficulties in protecting our intellectual property rights; · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; · restrictions, or taxes, on transfers of funds between entities or facilities in different countries; · changes in a given country’s political, regulatory or economic conditions; · burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; · difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and · difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities or delayed revenue recognition. Any of the factors described above may have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase or maintain our foreign sales. Economic conditions in our primary overseas markets, particularly in Asia, may negatively impact the demand for our products abroad. All of our international sales to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets or require us to assume the risk of denominating certain sales in foreign currencies. These factors could impact our business to a greater degree if we further expand our international business activities. We rely on third-party technologies for the development of our products and if we were unable to use such technologies in the future, our ability to remain competitive could be harmed. We rely on third parties for technologies that are integrated into our products. If we are unable to continue to use or license these technologies on reasonable terms, or if these technologies fail to operate properly, we may not be able to secure alternatives in a timely manner and our ability to remain competitive would be harmed. In addition, if we are unable to successfully license technology from third parties to develop future products, we may not be able to develop such products in a timely manner or at all. 19 We rely on the efforts of third parties to enhance our technology offerings and our ecosystem, and an inability to develop or maintain relationships with these parties would harm our ability to remain competitive. We have developed relationships with third parties, including software developers, development tools providers, and third party IP suppliers, pursuant to which these parties provide operating systems, tool support, reference designs and other services that support the MIPS-based ecosystem for our licensees. We believe that these relationships enhance the attractiveness of our technology and improve our ability to achieve design wins. If we are unable to develop or maintain these relationships, or if a product is discontinued by an existing ecosystem partner, our ability to achieve design wins in the future may be limited and our ability to remain competitive would be harmed. In addition, the inability to maintain an attractive MIPS-based ecosystem could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on royalties from the sale of products incorporating our technology, and we have limited visibility as to the timing and amount of such sales. Our receipt of royalties from our licenses depends on our licensees incorporating our technology into their products, bringing those products to market, and the success of those products in the market. In the case of our semiconductor licensees, the amount of such sales is further dependent upon the sale of the products by their customers into which our licensees’ products are incorporated. Thus, our ability to achieve design wins and enter into licensing agreements does not assure us of future royalty revenue. Any royalties that we are eligible to receive are based on the sales of products incorporating the semiconductors or other products of our licensees, and as a result we do not have direct access to information that will help us anticipate the timing and amount of future royalties. Factors that negatively affect our licensees and their customers could adversely affect our business. The success of our direct and indirect customers is subject to a number of factors, including: · the competition these companies face and the market acceptance of their products; · the engineering, marketing and management capabilities of these companies and technical challenges unrelated to our technology that they face in developing their products; and · their financial and other resources. Because we do not control the business practices of our licensees and their customers, we have little influence on the degree to which our licensees promote our technology and we do not set the prices at which products incorporating our technology are sold. Further, the royalty revenues we report in any given quarter represent licensee and customer shipments one quarter in arrears, and we have very little visibility into our licensees’ and customers’ shipping of products incorporating our technology. We rely on our licensees to correctly report to us the number or dollar value of products incorporating our technology that they have sold, as these sales are the basis for the royalty payments that they make to us. We have the right under our licensing agreements to perform a royalty audit of the licensee’s sales so that we can verify the accuracy of their reporting, and if we determine that there has been an over-reported or under-reported amount of royalty, we account for the results when they are identified. 20 We may be subject to litigation and other legal claims that could adversely affect our financial results. From time to time, we are subject to litigation and other legal claims incidental to our business. In addition, it is standard practice for us to include some form of indemnification of our licensees in our core and architecture license agreements, and from time to time we respond to claims by our licensees with respect to these obligations. It is possible that we could suffer unfavorable outcomes from litigation or other legal claims, including those made with respect to indemnification obligations, that are currently pending or that may arise in the future. Any such unfavorable outcome could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We depend on our key personnel to succeed. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued contributions of our key management, technical, sales and marketing personnel, many of whom are highly skilled and difficult to replace. If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate such personnel in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis, we may experience difficulty in implementing our current business and product plans. In that event, we may be unable to successfully meet competitive challenges or to exploit potential market opportunities, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assume that we will retain our other key officers and employees. Competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with significant experience in the semiconductor and processor design industries, remains intense. On August 4, 2011, our former Chief Financial Officer, Maury Austin, informed the Company that he intended to retire as an employee of the Company effective at such time as the company appointed a successor Chief Financial Officer. On October 27, 2011, the Company announced that the Board of Directors had appointed William Slater as the new Chief Financial Officer of the Company, effective November 10, 2011. On September 30, 2011, Arthur Swift resigned as the Company’s Vice President of Marketing and Business Development. In connection with Mr. Swift's resignation, the Company has named Gideon Intrater as the new Vice President of Marketing. We may be subject to claims of infringement. Significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industry. As we grow our business and expand into new markets that other companies are developing in, the risk that our technology may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others increases. In addition, it is standard practice for us to include some form of indemnification of our licensees in our core and architecture license agreements. We cannot be certain that third parties will not make a claim of infringement against us, our licensees, or our licensees’ customers in connection with the use of our technology. For example, we have been notified by ten licensees of a potential infringement claim by Biax Corporation asserting two US patents, allegedly involving MIPS products. A number of these licensees have requested indemnification from MIPS. We are currently reviewing these claims, but to date, we have not incurred any losses in respect of such claims. However, there can be no assurance that we will not incur future liabilities in connection with such claims, or that the amount of such liabilities will not be material. Any claims, even those without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation and/or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. These royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms to us or at all. A successful claim of infringement against us or one of our licensees in connection with its use of our technology could adversely affect our business. 21 From time to time, we receive communications from third parties asserting patent or other rights allegedly covering our products and technologies. Based upon our evaluation, we may take no action or we may seek to obtain a license, redesign an accused product or technology, initiate a formal proceeding with the appropriate agency (e.g., the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office) and/or initiate litigation. There can be no assurance in any given case that a license will be available on terms we consider reasonable or that litigation can be avoided if we desire to do so. If litigation does ensue, the adverse third party will likely seek damages (potentially including treble damages) and may seek an injunction against the sale of our products that incorporate allegedly infringing intellectual property or against the operation of our business as presently conducted, which could result in our having to stop the sale of some of our products or to increase the costs of selling some of our products. Such lawsuits could also damage our reputation. The award of damages, including material royalty payments, or the entry of an injunction against the sale of some or all of our products, could have a material adverse affect on us. Even if we were to initiate litigation, such action could be extremely expensive and time-consuming and could have a material adverse effect on us. We cannot assure you that litigation related to our intellectual property rights or the intellectual property rights of others can always be avoided or successfully concluded. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation or claim for indemnification could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on us. If we do not compete effectively in the market for SoC intellectual property cores and related designs, our business will be adversely affected. Competition in the market for SoC intellectual property and related designs is intense. Our products compete with those of other designers and developers of IP product offerings, as well as those of semiconductor manufacturers whose product lines include digital, analog and/or mixed signal designs for embedded and non-embedded applications. In addition, we may face competition from the producers of unauthorized clones of our processor and other technology designs. The market for embedded processors in particular has recently faced downward pricing pressures on products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully or that competitive pressure will not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In order to be successful in marketing our products to semiconductor companies, we must differentiate our intellectual property cores and related designs from those available or under development by the internal design groups of these companies, including some of our current and prospective licensees. Many of these internal design groups have substantial engineering and design resources and are part of larger organizations with substantial financial and marketing resources. These internal design groups may develop products that compete with ours. Some of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, and larger customer bases, as well as greater financial and marketing resources. This may allow them to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. It may also allow them to devote greater resources than we can to the development and promotion of their technologies and products. As a result of one or more of these risks, our operating costs could increase substantially, our flexibility in operating our business could be impaired and our sales could be adversely affected. Any of these items could have an adverse affect on our financial condition or results of operations. 22 Our intellectual property may be misappropriated or expire, and we may be unable to obtain or enforce intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, including confidentiality agreements, nondisclosure agreements and assignment agreements, copyrights, patents, trademarks, and common-law rights, such as trade secrets, to protect our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that any of the patents or other intellectual property rights that we own or use will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others or be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. As part of our business strategy, we license our technology in multiple geographies including in countries whose laws do not provide as much protection for our intellectual property as the laws of the United States and where we may not be able to enforce our rights. In addition, intellectual property rights which we have obtained in particular geographies may and do expire from time to time, or may be subject to formal opposition proceedings or other challenges. As a result, we cannot be certain that we will be able to prevent other parties from designing and marketing unauthorized MIPS compatible products, that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire the same or substantially equivalent technologies as ours, or that others will not use information contained in our expired patents to successfully compete against us. Moreover, cross licensing arrangements, in which we license certain of our patents but do not generally transfer know-how or other proprietary information, may facilitate the ability of cross-licensees, either alone or in conjunction with others, to develop competitive products and designs. We also cannot assure you that any of our patent applications to protect our intellectual property will be approved, and patents that have issued do expire over time or may be subject to reexamination proceedings. Recent judicial decisions and legislation in the United States may increase the cost of obtaining patents, limit the ability to adequately protect our proprietary technology, and have a negative impact on the enforceability of our patents. In addition, effective trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. If we are unable to protect, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights, our technology may be used without the payment of license fees and royalties, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our operating results and increase the likelihood of costly litigation. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” under Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”). Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in these methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or regulations or in the interpretation of tax laws or regulations. We operate in the United States and internationally and occasionally face inquiries and examinations regarding tax matters in the countries that we operate in. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we are subject to certain withholding taxes relating to the repatriation of undistributed earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries. Any changes in international laws or tax rulings in countries that we operate in could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. 23 If we experience security breaches, our reputation and business could suffer. We retain technical, customer, design, employee and other information on our IT systems, and it is critical to our business strategy that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure. Despite our security measures, our IT infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or nefarious actors, or similar disruptive problems, including “hacktivism”. It is possible that we may have to expend additional financial and other resources to address any such problems that arise. Any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of our IT systems and the information retained in our IT systems could adversely affect our reputation and harm our business. We may be subject to claims and liabilities in connection with the sale of our discontinued business. In connection with the sale of our Analog Business Group to Synopsys, Inc. (Synopsys) in May 2009, we agreed to retain responsibility for certain actual or contingent liabilities and agreed to indemnify Synopsys against certain breaches of representations and warranties and other liabilities. Our potential liability to Synopsys is subject to certain limitations, including limitations on the time period during which claims may be asserted and the amounts for which we are liable. To date, we have not incurred any losses in respect of claims asserted by Synopsys in connection with this transaction. However, there can be no assurance that we will not incur future liabilities to Synopsys in connection with this transaction, or that the amount of such liabilities will not be material. In May 2010, Synopsys delivered a letter to MIPS asserting breaches of certain representations and warranties and requesting compensation in an aggregate amount of approximately $3.7 million. We responded to Synopsys in June 2010 and denied all claims set forth in the May 2010 letter. In July 2010, Synopsys responded to our letter. General discussions and exchange of information between the parties have occurred, however, there can be no assurance that the current dispute can be resolved on terms that are acceptable to us. We cannot be assured that our past restructurings will sufficiently reduce our expenses relative to future revenue and may have to implement additional restructuring plans in order to reduce our operating costs. We have implemented restructuring plans in the past to reduce our operating costs. If we have not sufficiently reduced operating expenses or if revenues are below our expectations, we may be required to engage in additional restructuring activities, which could result in additional restructuring charges. These restructuring charges could harm our results of operations. Further, our restructuring plans could result in a potential adverse effect on employee capabilities that could harm our efficiency and our ability to act quickly and effectively in the rapidly changing technology markets in which we sell our products. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business and harm our operating results. Our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, our data centers and certain other critical business operations are located in California. A disruption or failure of our operations in the event of a major natural disaster, telecommunications failure, cyber attack, civil unrest, acts of war, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, delays in our product development and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from fulfilling our customers’ orders. An earthquake or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our data centers or our critical business or IT systems would severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our operating results would be adversely affected. In addition, the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan may negatively affect the operations, facilities, development plans, sales, and financial condition of our existing licensees and potential licensees with operations in Japan. The Japan earthquake and tsunami and other future catastrophic events may adversely affect our ability to enter into new agreements with licensees and the ability of these licensees to complete product shipments upon which we earn royalty revenue. 24 We may incur impairments to long-lived assets. We review our long-lived assets, including other intangible assets, for impairment annually in the fourth quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. Significant negative industry or economic trends, including a significant decline in the market price of our common stock, or disruptions to our business could lead to an impairment charge of our long-lived assets, including the other intangible assets. Our consideration of impairment indicators and valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. We operate in highly competitive environments and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from results. Additionally, if our analysis results in impairment to our goodwill, intangible and long-lived assets, we may be required to record a charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which such impairment is determined to exist, which may negatively impact our results of operations. The market value of our investment portfolio is exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit ratings which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our cash and cash equivalents and short term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit ratings, sovereign defaults and various financial market conditions. The global credit and capital markets have experienced significant volatility and disruption due to the instability in the global financial system and the current uncertainty related to global economic conditions. There is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments, should the credit markets experience further deterioration or the underlying assets fail to perform as anticipated. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or a decline in fair values of our debt securities that is judged to be other-than-temporary. Furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions. The amount of our other income (expense), net could be adversely affected by macroeconomic conditions and other factors. The amount of other income (expense), net in our consolidated statements of operations is subject to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in our cash and cash equivalent balances as well as fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These changes are, to a large extent, beyond our control and we have limited ability to predict them. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 25 