Item 1A. Risk Factors Our success is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below. These factors could hinder our growth, cause us to sustain losses or have other adverse effects on us, which could individually or collectively cause our stock price to decline. The following list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. Our financial results could be negatively impacted by economic conditions. The U.S. economy and other global economies are in a recession and we cannot predict when global economic conditions will cease to deteriorate. The markets served by the Company, and those of our customers, can be highly cyclical, and our financial results, both our royalty revenue and our ability to secure new contracts, could be impacted by consumer spending in the U.S. and global economies. The semiconductor industry appears to be facing particularly challenging economic trends and our prospects and results are influenced in a significant way by conditions in this industry. Royalty revenues depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions, including business and consumer spending, which have recently deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions, including the United States, and may remain depressed indefinitely. Contract revenues depend on the willingness of our potential customers to invest in new products, and may be impacted by weak economic conditions in consumer spending and infrastructure spending. Some of the factors that could influence the levels of consumer and infrastructure spending include continuing increases in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. In addition, the financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the ongoing weakness of financial institutions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets; a low level of liquidity in many financial markets; and extreme volatility in credit, fixed income, and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the recent financial crisis on our business, including insolvency issues with our customers or suppliers. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, and on our financial condition and operating results. We depend on our key personnel to succeed and are transitioning our Chief Executive Officer. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued contributions of our key management, technical, sales and marketing personnel, many of whom are highly skilled and difficult to replace. In July 2009 the Company announced that the long-time President and Chief Executive Officer intends to retire at the end of the calendar year. The transition to a new Chief Executive Officer could distract our existing management team and may lead to potential changes in corporate strategy. These changes may negatively impact our ability to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective project milestones and product introductions which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we cannot assure that we will retain other key officers and employees. Competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with significant experience in the semiconductor and processor design industries, remains intense. We compete against much larger companies in the microprocessor IP market that have larger market share and broader lines of products. Some of our competitors, including Intel Corporation and ARM Holdings, have significant financial resources enabling them to market their products aggressively and to target our customers with special incentives. As long as Intel and ARM remain in their dominant position, we may be negatively impacted by their business practices, product mix and product introduction schedules, marketing strategies and exclusivity clauses with customers. In addition, Intel and ARM have substantially greater financial resources than we do and, accordingly, spend substantially greater amounts on research and development and production capacity than we do. We expect Intel and ARM to maintain their dominant market positions and to continue to invest heavily in marketing, research and development and other technology companies. To the extent our competitors develop microprocessor products using more advanced process technologies or introduce competitive new products into the market before we do, our financial condition and operating results will be adversely impacted. 12 Our quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations that could adversely affect our stock price. Our quarterly financial results may vary significantly due to a number of factors. In addition, our revenue components are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Because our revenues are somewhat independent of our expenses in any particular period, it is difficult to accurately forecast our operating results. Our operating expenses are based, in part, on anticipated future revenue and a very high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short term. As a result, if our revenue is below expectations in any quarter, the adverse effect may be magnified by our inability to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for the revenue shortfall. Therefore, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. It is possible that in some future periods our results of operations may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our common stock may fall. Factors that could cause our revenue and operating results to vary from quarter to quarter include: · our ability to identify attractive licensing opportunities and then enter into new licensing agreements on terms that are acceptable to us; · our ability to successfully conclude licensing agreements of any significant value in a given quarter; · the financial terms and delivery schedules of our contractual arrangements with our licensees, which may provide for significant up-front payments, payments based on the achievement of certain milestones or extended payment terms; · the demand for products that incorporate our technology; · our ability to develop, introduce and market new intellectual property; · the establishment or loss of licensing relationships with semiconductor companies or digital consumer, wireless, connectivity and business product manufacturers; · the timing of new products and product enhancements by us and our competitors; · changes in development schedules, research and development expenditure levels and product support by us and semiconductor companies and digital consumer, wireless, connectivity and business product manufacturers; and · uncertain economic and market conditions. 13 The success of our business depends on sustaining or growing our license and contract revenue. License and contract revenue consists of technology license fees paid for access to our developed technology, associated maintenance agreements and engineering service fees related to technology under development. Our ability to secure the licenses from which our contract revenues are derived depends on our customers, including semiconductor companies, digital consumer, wireless, connectivity and business product manufacturers, adopting our technology and using it in the products they sell. Our contract revenue increased by 42% in fiscal 2007, decreased by 23% in fiscal 2008 and decreased by 8% in fiscal 2009. We entered into a number of unlimited use license agreements with our customers. Under these agreements, customers generally pay a larger fixed up-front fee to use a number of our cores in unlimited SoC designs during the term of the agreement, which is generally between 4 and 7 years. The number of licensed cores can vary from one core to every core currently available. We recognize all license revenues under these unlimited use license agreements upon execution of the agreement, provided all revenue recognition criteria had been met. Contract revenue from unlimited use license agreement was 32% in fiscal 2009, 54% in fiscal 2008, and 49% in fiscal 2007 of the total license and contract revenue. Additionally, contract revenue from unlimited use license agreements was $8.8 million for fiscal 2009 as compared with $16.3 million for fiscal 2008. Historically, a license-based business can have strong quarters or weak quarters depending on the number and size of the license deals closed during the quarter. We cannot predict whether we can maintain our current contract revenue levels or if contract revenue will grow. Our licensees are not obligated to license new or future generations of our products, so past contract revenue may not be indicative of the amount of such revenue in any future period. If we cannot maintain or grow our contract revenue or if our customers do not adopt our technology and obtain corresponding licenses, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Our ability to achieve design wins may be limited unless we are able to develop enhancements and new generations of our intellectual property. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop enhancements and new generations of our processors, cores or other intellectual property that satisfy the requirements of specific product applications and introduce these new technologies to the marketplace in a timely manner. If our development efforts are not successful or are significantly delayed, or if the characteristics of our IP product offerings and related designs are not compatible with the requirements of specific product applications, our ability to achieve design wins may be limited. Our failure to achieve a significant number of design wins would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Technical innovations of the type critical to our success are inherently complex and involve several risks, including: · our ability to anticipate and timely respond to changes in the requirements of semiconductor companies, and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, of digital consumer, wireless, connectivity and business products; · our ability to anticipate and timely respond to changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes; · changing customer preferences in the digital consumer, wireless, connectivity and business products markets; · the emergence of new standards in the semiconductor industry and for digital consumer, wireless, connectivity and business products; · the significant investment in a potential product that is often required before commercial viability is determined; and · the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. 14 Our failure to adequately address these risks could render our existing IP product offerings and related designs obsolete and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will have the financial and other resources necessary to develop IP product offerings and related designs in the future, or that any enhancements or new generations of the technology that we develop will generate revenue sufficient to cover or in excess of the costs of development. If we do not succeed on key platforms including Android, our ability to compete and grow will be negatively impacted. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop processor core or other intellectual property that satisfies the requirements of key platforms such as Android. If our development efforts are not successful or are significantly delayed, or if the characteristics of our IP product offerings and related designs are not compatible with the requirements of key platforms, our ability to achieve design wins may be limited. In addition, if we fail to achieve a significant number of design wins with respect to new platforms like the Android platform, our medium to longer term revenue growth will be adversely impacted. Additionally, even if we are successful in creating Android or other key capable technologies, those platforms may not be widely adopted in the industry which would also limit our growth opportunities. In our business we depend on royalties from the sale of products incorporating our technology, and we have limited visibility as to the timing and amount of such sales. Our receipt of royalties from our licenses depends on our customers incorporating our technology into their products, their bringing these products to market, and the success of these products. In the case of our semiconductor customers, the amount of such sales is further dependent upon the sale of the products by their customers into which our customers’ products are incorporated. Thus, our ability to achieve design wins and enter into licensing agreements does not assure us of future revenue. Any royalties that we are eligible to receive are based on the sales of products incorporating the semiconductors or other products of our licensees, and as a result we do not have direct access to information that will help us anticipate the timing and amount of future royalties. Factors that negatively affect our licensees and their customers could adversely affect our business. The success of our direct and indirect customers is subject to a number of factors, including: · the competition these companies face and the market acceptance of their products; · the engineering, marketing and management capabilities of these companies and technical challenges unrelated to our technology that they face in developing their products; and · their financial and other resources. Because we do not control the business practices of our licensees and their customers, we have little influence on the degree to which our licensees promote our technology and do not set the prices at which products incorporating our technology are sold. Further, the royalty revenues we report in any given quarter represent customer shipments one quarter in arrears, and we have very little visibility into our licensees’ and customers’ shipping of products incorporating our technology. 15 We rely on our customers to correctly report to us the number or dollar value of products incorporating our technology that they have sold, as these sales are the basis for the royalty payments that they make to us. We have the right under our licensing agreements to perform a royalty audit of the customer’s sales so that we can verify the accuracy of their reporting, and if we determine that there has been an over-reported or under-reported amount of royalty, we account for the results when they are identified. If we do not compete effectively in the market for SoC intellectual property cores and related designs, our business will be adversely affected. Competition in the market for SoC intellectual property and related designs is intense. Our products compete with those of other designers and developers of IP product offerings, as well as those of semiconductor manufacturers whose product lines include digital, analog and/or mixed signal designs for embedded and non-embedded applications. In addition, we may face competition from the producers of unauthorized clones of our processor and other technology designs. The market for embedded processors in particular has recently faced downward pricing pressures on products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully or that competitive pressure will not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In order to be successful in marketing our products to semiconductor companies, we must differentiate our intellectual property cores and related designs from those available or under development by the internal design groups of these companies, including some of our current and prospective licensees. Many of these internal design groups have substantial engineering and design resources and are part of larger organizations with substantial financial and marketing resources. These internal design groups may develop products that compete with ours. Some of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, larger customer bases as well as greater financial and marketing resources than we do. This may allow them to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. It may also allow them to devote greater resources than we can to the development and promotion of their technologies and products. Our operations in foreign countries are subject to political and economic risks. We also have sales and operations in China and Switzerland as well as sales offices in Germany, Japan, Israel, Korea and Taiwan. Our operations in countries outside the U.S. subject us to risks, including: · changes in tax laws, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; · potential difficulties in protecting our intellectual property; · changes in foreign currency rates; · restrictions, or taxes, on transfers of funds between entities or facilities in different countries; and · changes in a given country’s political or economic conditions. 16 As a result of one or more of these risks, our operating costs could increase substantially, our flexibility in operating our business could be impaired, our taxes could increase, and our sales could be adversely affected. Any of these items could have an adverse affect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” under Part I, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our Form 10-K). Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or regulations or the interpretation of tax laws or regulations. We operate in countries other than the United States and occasionally face inquiries and examinations regarding tax matters in these countries. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may be subject to litigation and other legal claims that could adversely affect our financial results. From time to time, we are subject to litigation and other legal claims incidental to our business. In addition, it is standard practice for us to include some form of indemnification of our licensees in our core and architecture license agreements, and from time to time we respond to claims by our licensees with respect to these obligations. It is possible that we could suffer unfavorable outcomes from litigation or other legal claims, including those made with respect to indemnification obligations, that are currently pending or that may arise in the future. Any such unfavorable outcome could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We may be subject to claims of infringement. Significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industry. As we grow our business and expand into new markets that other companies are developing in, the risk that our technology may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others increases. We cannot be certain that third parties will not make a claim of infringement against us, our licensees, or our licensees’ customers in connection with use of our technology. Any claims, even those without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation and/or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. These royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms to us or at all. A successful claim of infringement against us or one of our licensees in connection with its use of our technology could adversely affect our business. From time to time, we receive communications from third parties asserting patent or other rights allegedly covering our products and technologies. Based upon our evaluation, we may take no action or we may seek to obtain a license, redesign an accused product or technology, initiate a formal proceeding with the appropriate agency (e.g., the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office) and/or initiate litigation. There can be no assurance in any given case that a license will be available on terms we consider reasonable or that litigation can be avoided if we desire to do so. If litigation does ensue, the adverse third party will likely seek damages (potentially including treble damages) and may seek an injunction against the sale of our products that incorporate allegedly infringed intellectual property or against the operation of our business as presently conducted, which could result in our having to stop the sale of some of our products or to increase the costs of selling some of our products. Such lawsuits could also damage our reputation. The award of damages, including material royalty payments, or the entry of an injunction against the sale of some or all of our products, could have a material adverse affect on us. Even if we were to initiate litigation, such action could be extremely expensive and time-consuming and could have a material adverse effect on us. We cannot assure you that litigation related to our intellectual property rights or the intellectual property rights of others can always be avoided or successfully concluded. 17 Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our intellectual property may be misappropriated or expire, and we may be unable to obtain or enforce intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, including confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements, assignment agreements, copyrights, patents, trademarks, and common-law rights, such as trade secrets, to protect our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that any of the patents or other intellectual property rights that we own or use will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others or be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. As part of our business strategy, we license our technology in multiple geographies including in countries whose laws do not provide as much protection for our intellectual property as the laws of the United States and where we may not be able to enforce our rights. In addition, intellectual property rights which we have obtained in particular geographies may and do expire from time to time. As a result, we cannot be certain that we will be able to prevent other parties from designing and marketing unauthorized MIPS compatible products that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire the same or substantially equivalent technologies as ours, or that others will not use information contained in our expired patents to successfully compete against us. Moreover, cross licensing arrangements, in which we license certain of our patents but do not generally transfer know-how or other proprietary information, may facilitate the ability of cross-licensees, either alone or in conjunction with others, to develop competitive products and designs. We also cannot assure you that any of our patent applications to protect our intellectual property will be approved, and patents that have issued do expire over time. Recent judicial decisions and proposed legislation in the United States may increase the cost of obtaining patents, limit the ability to adequately protect our proprietary technology, and have a negative impact on the enforceability of our patents. In addition, effective trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. If we are unable to protect, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights, our technology may be used without the payment of license fees and royalties, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our operating results and increase the likelihood of costly litigation. We may be subject to claims and liabilities in connection with the sale of our discontinued business. In connection with our sale of ABG, we agreed to retain responsibility for certain actual or contingent liabilities and agreed to indemnify the purchaser against certain breaches of representations and warranties and other liabilities. To date, we have not incurred any losses in respect of claims asserted by the purchaser in connection with this transaction. Our potential liability to the purchaser is subject to certain limitations, including limitations on the time period during which claims may be asserted and the amounts for which we are liable. However, there can be no assurance that we will not incur future liabilities to the purchaser in connection with this transaction or that the amount of such liabilities will not be material. We cannot be assured that our recent restructurings will sufficiently reduce our expenses relative to future revenue and may have to implement additional restructuring plans in order to reduce our operating costs. We have implemented restructuring plans in the past to reduce our operating costs, including plans announced in January and August 2008. We also implemented additional restructuring efforts in the third quarter of fiscal 2009 in connection the departure of certain company executives and the divestiture of ABG. If we have not sufficiently reduced operating expenses or if revenues are below our expectations, we may be required to engage in additional restructuring activities, which could result in additional restructuring charges. These restructuring charges could harm our results of operations. Further, our restructuring plans could result in a potential adverse effect on employee capabilities that could harm our efficiency and our ability to act quickly and effectively in the rapidly changing technology markets in which we sell our products. The amount of our other income (expense), net could be adversely affected by macroeconomic conditions and other factors. The amount of other income (expense), net in our consolidated statements of operations is subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, fluctuations in interest rates and changes in our cash and cash equivalent balances. These changes are, to a large extent, beyond our control and we have limited ability to predict them. 18 We have significant debt which could restrict our ability to operate our business. We have a term loan and revolving credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank. These loans are secured by virtually all of our assets, and the facility contains affirmative and negative covenants that impose restrictions on the operation of our business and may prevent us from taking advantage of opportunities that are otherwise available to us or could cause an earlier acceleration of the facility. We will be required to make interest payments for so long as this debt is outstanding. This incurrence of long term debt could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to obtain favorable credit terms related to any debt that we may incur in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 