Item 1A. Risk Factors Described below are various risks and uncertainties that may affect our business. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. You should recognize that other significant risks and uncertainties may arise in the future, which we cannot foresee at this time. Also, the risks that we now foresee might affect us to a greater or different degree than expected. Certain risks and uncertainties, including ones that we currently deem immaterial or that are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also affect our business. If any of the risks described below actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred losses since inception and we may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. Product revenue for products which we license out is dependent upon the commercialization efforts of our partners, including the sales and marketing efforts of GSK relating to Treximet. We have incurred significant losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $140.0 million. Our ability to receive product revenue from the sale of products is dependent on a number of factors, principally the development, regulatory approval and successful commercialization of our product candidates. We expect that the amount of our operating losses will fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter principally as a result of increases and decreases in our development efforts and the timing and amount of payments that we may receive from others. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses associated with our research and development efforts and do not know the amount or timing of product revenue we will receive as a result of sales of Treximet by GlaxoSmithKline, or GSK, or future sales of other product candidates by commercial partners. For example, GSK’s inability to launch Treximet with approved promotional and professional materials, including direct to consumer advertising, may have had an adverse impact on uptake of the product, thus affecting our royalty revenue. Our only current potential sources of revenue are the payments that we may receive pursuant to our collaboration agreements with GSK and AstraZeneca. We received the remaining regulatory milestone payments under our collaboration agreement with GSK related to Treximet payable upon approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and notification of GSK’s intent to commercialize Treximet, receipt of which were delayed as a result of our receipt of a second approvable letter for the product on August 1, 2007. We depend heavily on the success of our product candidates, which may never be approved for commercial use. If we are unable to develop, gain approval of or commercialize those product candidates, we will never receive revenues from the sale of our product candidates. We anticipate that for the foreseeable future our ability to achieve profitability will be dependent on the successful commercialization of Treximet, along with the successful development, approval and commercialization of our current product candidates. If we fail to gain timely approval to commercialize our products from the FDA and other foreign regulatory bodies, we will be unable to generate the revenue we will need to build our business. These approvals may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all, and even if and when they are granted, they may not cover all of the indications for which we seek approval. Many factors could negatively affect our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. For example, approval of Treximet for commercial use was significantly delayed by our receipt of two approvable letters, the first of which we received in June 2006 in which the FDA requested additional safety information on Treximet, some of which required new studies. On August 1, 2007, we received a second approvable letter from the FDA for Treximet in which the FDA requested that we further address the FDA’s concern about the product’s potential for genotoxicity. - 19 - - Table of Contents In October 2008, the FDA informed us that it was conducting an internal review of the acceptability of using endoscopic gastric ulcers as a primary endpoint in clinical trials. Reduction of endoscopic gastric ulcers was the primary endpoint in our Phase 3 trials for VIMOVO and the proposed primary endpoint in the current study design of the Phase 3 trials for our PA32540 product. In late January 2009, the FDA informed us that it had completed its internal discussions and that there was no change to previous agreements that gastric ulcer incidence was an acceptable primary endpoint for our clinical programs. If the FDA had determined that endoscopic gastric ulcers were no longer an acceptable endpoint in clinical trials, we might have been required to conduct additional trials and provide additional data which would have required additional expenses and delayed filing of the new drug application, or NDA, for VIMOVO. In addition to the inability to obtain regulatory approval, many other factors could negatively affect the success of our efforts to develop and commercialize our product candidates, including those discussed in the risk factors that follow as well as negative, inconclusive or otherwise unfavorable results from any studies or clinical trials, such as those that we obtained with respect to MT 500, which led to our decision to discontinue development of that product candidate in 2002. Changes in regulatory approval policy or statutory or regulatory requirements, or in the regulatory environment, during the development period of any of our product candidates may result in delays in the approval, or rejection, of the application for approval of one or more of our product candidates. If we fail to obtain approval, or are delayed in obtaining approval, of our product candidates, our ability to generate revenue will be severely impaired. The process of drug development and regulatory approval for product candidates takes many years, during which time the FDA’s interpretations of the standards against which drugs are judged for approval may evolve or change. The FDA can also change its approval policies based upon changes in laws and regulations. In addition, the FDA can decide, based on its then current approval policies, any changes in those policies and its broad discretion in the approval process, to weigh the benefits and the risks of every drug candidate. As a result of any of the foregoing, the FDA may decide that the data we submit in support of an application for approval of a drug candidate are insufficient for approval. For example, in October 2008, the FDA has informed us that it was conducting an internal review of the acceptability of using endoscopic gastric ulcers as a primary endpoint in clinical trials. Reduction of endoscopic gastric ulcers was the primary endpoint in our Phase 3 trials for VIMOVO (formerly referred to as PN 400). In late January 2009, FDA informed us that it had completed its internal discussions and that there was no change to previous agreements that gastric ulcer incidence was an acceptable primary endpoint for our clinical programs. In the event the FDA had determined that endoscopic gastric ulcers were no longer an acceptable endpoint, we might have been required to conduct additional trials and provide additional data which would have required additional expenses and delayed NDA approval of VIMOVO. Further, changes in policy or interpretation may not be the subject of published guidelines and may therefore be difficult to evaluate. For example, the FDA has not recently published guidelines for the approval of new migraine therapies, and we have had to rely on periodic guidance from the FDA obtained (in conversations) informally and in other meetings, the content of which may be subject to significant modification over the period of a drug’s development program. There is also the risk that we and the FDA may interpret such guidance differently. Further, additional information about the potential risks of marketed drugs may affect the regulatory approval environment, or the FDA’s approval policies, for new product candidates. For example, in February 2005 an advisory committee convened by the FDA met to address the potential cardiovascular risks of COX-2 selective NSAIDs and related drugs in response to disclosures made about possible adverse effects from the use of some of these drugs. On April 7, 2005, the FDA issued a Public Health Advisory, or the Advisory, based, in part, upon the recommendations of the advisory committee. The Advisory stated that it would require that manufacturers of all prescription products containing NSAIDs provide warnings regarding the potential for adverse cardiovascular events as well as life-threatening gastrointestinal events associated with the use of NSAIDs. Moreover, subsequent to the FDA advisory committee meeting in February 2005, the FDA has indicated that long-term studies evaluating cardiovascular risk will be required for approval of new NSAID products that may be used on an intermittent or chronic basis. Based on our discussions with the FDA reviewing division for PN products, we believe that, unless new information about naproxen safety concerns becomes available, long-term cardiovascular safety studies will not be required at this time for FDA approval of our PN product candidates containing naproxen. However, we cannot guarantee that such studies will not be required. We will continue to evaluate and review with the FDA its expectations and recommendations regarding the efficacy and safety requirements and study design necessary to support approval of NDAs for our PN product candidates and other product candidates that contain NSAIDs. - 20 - - Table of Contents If we, or our current or future collaborators, do not obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals for one or more of our product candidates, we will be unable to commercialize those product candidates. Further, if we are delayed in obtaining or unable to obtain, any required approvals, our collaborators may terminate, or be entitled to terminate, their agreements with us or reduce or eliminate their payments to us under these agreements or we may be required to pay termination payments under these agreements. Our product candidates under development are subject to extensive domestic and foreign regulation. The FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertisement, promotion, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products in the U.S. In order to market our products abroad, we must comply with extensive regulation by foreign governments. If we are unable to obtain and maintain FDA and foreign government approvals for our product candidates, we, alone or through our collaborators, will not be permitted to sell them. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate will prevent us from commercializing that product candidate. Except for Treximet, which was approved for commercial sale in the U.S. on April 15, 2008, none of our other product candidates are approved for sale in the U.S. or any foreign market and they may never be approved. For example, we received two approvable letters relating to our NDA for Treximet which communicated the FDA’s concerns that delayed marketing approval. An approvable letter is an official notification from the FDA that contains conditions that must be satisfied prior to obtaining final U.S. marketing approval. In June 2006, we received the first approvable letter in which the FDA requested additional safety information on Treximet, and in August 2007, we received a second approvable letter in which the FDA requested that we address their concern about the potential implications from one preclinical in vitro chromosomal aberration study in which a signal for genotoxicity was seen for the combination of naproxen sodium and sumatriptan. We have also previously received not-approvable letters from the FDA relating to our NDAs for MT 100 and MT 300. In the U.S., a separate NDA or supplement must be filed with respect to each indication for which marketing approval of a product is sought. Each NDA, in turn, requires the successful completion of preclinical, toxicology, genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies, as well as clinical trials demonstrating the safety and efficacy of the product for that particular indication. We may not receive regulatory approval of any of the NDAs that we file with the FDA or of any approval applications we may seek in the future outside the U.S. Further, our current or future collaboration agreements may terminate, or require us to make certain payments to our collaborators, or our collaborators may have the right to terminate their agreements with us or reduce or eliminate their payments to us under these agreements, based on our inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining, regulatory approval for our product candidates. For example, under our PN collaboration agreement with AstraZeneca, AstraZeneca has the right to terminate the agreement if certain delays occur or specified development and regulatory objectives are not met. For example, this termination right could have been triggered by AstraZeneca if the FDA had determined that endoscopic gastric ulcers were no longer an acceptable endpoint and we had been required to conduct additional trials which would have delayed NDA approval for VIMOVO. Both AstraZeneca and GSK have the right to terminate their respective agreement with us upon 90 days notice for any reason. If we or our contract manufacturers do not maintain required regulatory approvals, we may not be able to commercialize our products. Approval of a product candidate may be conditioned upon certain limitations and restrictions as to the drug’s use, or upon the conduct of further studies, and is subject to continuous review. The FDA may also require us to conduct additional post-approval studies. These post-approval studies may include carcinogenicity studies in animals or further human clinical trials. The later discovery of previously unknown problems with the product, manufacturer or manufacturing facility may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, or total or partial suspension of production, as well as other regulatory action against our product candidates or us. If approvals are withdrawn for a product, or if a product is seized or recalled, we would be unable to sell that product and therefore would not receive any revenues from that product. We and our contract manufacturers are required to comply with the applicable FDA current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, regulations, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Further, manufacturing facilities must be approved by the FDA before they can be used to manufacture our product candidates, and are subject to additional FDA inspection. We, or our third-party manufacturers, may not be able to comply with cGMP regulations or other FDA regulatory requirements, which could result in a delay or an inability to manufacture the products. If we or our partners wish or need to identify an alternative manufacturer, delays in obtaining FDA approval of the alternative manufacturing facility could cause an interruption in the supply of our products. Labeling and promotional activities are subject to scrutiny by the FDA and state regulatory agencies and, in some circumstances, the Federal Trade Commission. FDA enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of unapproved products as well as the marketing of approved products for unapproved, or off-label, uses. These regulations and the FDA’s interpretation of them may limit our or our partners’ ability to market products for which we gain approval. Failure to comply with these requirements can result in federal and state regulatory enforcement action. Further, we may not obtain the labeling claims we or our partners believe are necessary or desirable for the promotion of our product candidates. - 21 - - Table of Contents If third parties challenge the validity of the patents or proprietary rights of our marketed products or assert that we have infringed their patents or proprietary rights, we may become involved in intellectual property disputes and litigation that would be costly and time consuming and could negatively impact the commercialization of Treximet and/or any of our products that we develop or acquire. We have received notice of paragraph IV certifications notifying us of the filing of ANDAs with the FDA for approval to market a generic version of Treximet. We filed patent infringement lawsuits in response to these ANDAs that could lead to costly and time consuming patent litigation. The intellectual property rights of pharmaceutical companies, including us, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. Our success in developing and commercializing pharmaceutical products may depend, in part, on our ability to operate without infringing on the intellectual property rights of others and to prevent others from infringing on our intellectual property rights. There has been substantial litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical industry. For example, third parties seeking to market generic versions of branded pharmaceutical products often file ANDAs with the FDA, containing a certifications stating that the ANDA applicant believes that the patents protecting the branded pharmaceutical product are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed. Such certifications are commonly referred to as paragraph IV certifications. We and GSK have received Paragraph IV Notice Letters from Par, Alphapharm, Alphapharm’s designated agent, Mylan, Teva and Dr. Reddy’s informing us that each company had filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, with the FDA, seeking approval to market sumatriptan 85 mg/naproxen sodium 500 mg tablets. Par, Alphapharm, Teva and Dr. Reddy’s have each indicated in their respective Notice Letters that they intend to market a generic version of Treximet tablets before the expiration of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,060,499, 6,586,458 and 7,332,183. GSK advised us that it has elected not to exercise its first right to bring infringement suits against Par, Alphapharm, Teva and Dr. Reddy’s. Accordingly, we filed suit against Par on November 14, 2008, Alphapharm and Mylan on January 2, 2009, Teva on April 14, 2009 and Dr. Reddy’s on August 21, 2009, all in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. All four actions have since been consolidated into one suit. The Company’s filing of these patent infringement lawsuits within forty-five days of our receipt of the respective Notice Letters from Par, Alphapharm, Teva and Dr. Reddy’s resulted in the FDA automatically instituting a stay, or bar, of approval of Par’s, Alphapharm’s, Teva’s and Dr. Reddy’s respective ANDAs for up to 30 months or until a final court decision is entered in the infringement suit in favor of the ANDA applicant, whichever occurs first. Treximet currently has regulatory exclusivity through April 15, 2011. Treximet may be eligible for an additional six months of exclusivity upon the completion of certain pediatric studies. Written and document discovery are in progress. The cases are set for trial in the fourth quarter of 2010. Litigation can be time consuming and costly and we cannot predict with certainty the outcome. If we are unsuccessful in such a proceeding and the FDA approved a generic version of our product, such an outcome would have a material adverse effect on sales of Treximet and our business. Our reliance on collaborations with third parties to develop and commercialize our products is subject to inherent risks and may result in delays in product development and lost or reduced revenues, restricting our ability to commercialize our products and adversely affecting our profitability. With respect to the products we have licensed, we depend upon collaborations with third parties to develop these product candidates and we depend substantially upon third parties to commercialize these products. As a result, our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval of, manufacture and commercialize our existing and possibly future product candidates depends upon our ability to maintain existing, and enter into and maintain new, contractual and collaborative arrangements with others. For those future products we commercialize ourselves, we will continue to depend substantially upon third parties to implement our commercial strategy. We also engage, and intend in the future to continue to engage, contract manufacturers and clinical trial investigators. In addition, although not a primary component of our current strategy, the identification of new compounds or product candidates for development has led us, and may continue to require us, to enter into license or other collaborative agreements with others, including pharmaceutical companies and research institutions. Such collaborative agreements for the acquisition of new compounds or product candidates would typically require us to pay license fees, make milestone payments and/or pay royalties. Furthermore, these agreements may result in our revenues being lower than if we developed our product candidates ourselves and in our loss of control over the development of our product candidates. - 22 - - Table of Contents Contractors or collaborators may have the right to terminate their agreements with us or reduce their payments to us under those agreements on limited or no notice and for no reason or reasons outside of our control. We currently have a collaboration with GSK for the development and commercialization of certain triptan combinations using our MT 400 technology, including Treximet, in the U.S., a global collaboration with AstraZeneca for the development and commercialization of proprietary combinations of gastroprotective agents and naproxen, and a collaboration with Valeant NA in the U.S. for the development and commercialization of MT 300. In these collaboration agreements, our collaborators have the right to terminate the agreement upon a default by us. In addition, GSK and AstraZeneca are entitled to terminate their respective agreements with us upon 90 days’ notice for any reason. Additionally, both GSK and AstraZeneca have the right to reduce the royalties on net sales of products payable to us under their respective agreements if generic competitors attain a pre-determined share of the market for products marketed under the agreements, or if either GSK or AstraZeneca must pay a royalty to one or more third parties for rights it licenses from those third parties to commercialize products marketed under the agreements. AstraZeneca is also entitled to terminate its agreement with us if certain delays occur or specified development or regulatory objectives are not met. This termination could have been triggered by AstraZeneca if the FDA had determined that endoscopic gastric ulcers were no longer an acceptable endpoint and we had been required to conduct additional trials which would have delayed NDA approval for VIMOVO. Valeant NA is entitled to terminate its agreement with us and a $1.0 million withdrawal fee would be payable by us in the event we choose to withdraw the NDA if we determine that additional studies or data that are required by the FDA for approval of the NDA would jeopardize the commercial viability of MT 300 or exceed our financial resources available for MT 300. Due to our belief that the FDA will not approve the NDA for MT 300 and there are no additional required studies, we began discussions with Valeant NA regarding termination of our agreement. Valeant NA has demanded payment of the $1.0 million withdrawal fee, which we are disputing. If our current or future licensees exercise termination rights they may have, or if these license agreements terminate because of delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, or for other reasons, and we are not able to establish replacement or additional research and development collaborations or licensing arrangements, we may not be able to develop and/or commercialize our product candidates. Moreover, any future collaborations or license arrangements we may enter into may not be on terms favorable to us. A further risk we face with our collaborations is that business combinations and changes in the collaborator or their business strategy may adversely affect their willingness or ability to complete their obligations to us. Our current or any future collaborations or license arrangements ultimately may not be successful. Our agreements with collaborators typically allow them discretion in electing whether to pursue various regulatory, commercialization and other activities or with respect to the timing of the development, such as our agreement with GSK under which GSK determined, among other things, the exact formulation and composition of the product candidates using our MT 400 technology for use in the Treximet clinical trials. Similarly, under our agreement with AstraZeneca, AstraZeneca has the right to manufacture clinical trial material itself or through a third party. If any collaborator were to breach its agreement with us or otherwise fail to conduct collaborative activities in a timely or successful manner, the pre-clinical or clinical development or commercialization of the affected product candidate or research program would be delayed or terminated. Any delay or termination of clinical development or commercialization, such as the delay in FDA approval we experienced as a result of approvable letters we received from the FDA in June 2006 and August 2007 related to our Treximet NDA, or a delay in FDA approval of VIMOVO which could have occurred if the FDA determined that endoscopic gastric ulcers were no longer an acceptable primary endpoint in clinical trials and we were required to conduct additional clinical trials for the product, would delay or possibly eliminate our potential product revenues. Further, our collaborators may be able to exercise control, under certain circumstances, over our ability to protect our patent rights under patents covered by the applicable collaboration agreement. For example, under our collaboration agreements with GSK and AstraZeneca, GSK and AstraZeneca each has the first right to enforce our patents under their respective agreements and would have exclusive control over such enforcement litigation. GSK advised us that it has elected not to exercise its first right to bring infringement suits against Par, Alphapharm, Teva, and Dr. Reddy’s which have submitted ANDAs to the FDA for approval to market a generic version of Treximet tablets and we have filed suit against the four companies in the federal court of the United State District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. Other risks associated with our collaborative and contractual arrangements with others include the following: · we may not have day-to-day control over the activities of our contractors or collaborators; · our collaborators may fail to defend or enforce patents they own on compounds or technologies that are incorporated into the products we develop with them; · third parties may not fulfill their regulatory or other obligations; · we may not realize the contemplated or expected benefits from collaborative or other arrangements; and · disagreements may arise regarding a breach of the arrangement, the interpretation of the agreement, ownership of proprietary rights, clinical results or regulatory approvals. - 23 - - Table of Contents These factors could lead to delays in the development of our product candidates and/or the commercialization of our products or reduction in the milestone payments we receive from our collaborators, or could result in our not being able to commercialize our products. Further, disagreements with our contractors or collaborators could require or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time-consuming and expensive. Our ultimate success may depend upon the success and performance on the part of these third parties. If we fail to maintain these relationships or establish new relationships as required, development of our product candidates and/or the commercialization of our products will be delayed or may never be realized. A collaborator may withdraw support or cease to perform work on our product candidates if the collaborator determines to develop its own competing product candidate or other product candidates instead. We have entered into collaboration and license agreements, and may continue to enter into such agreements, with companies that have products and are developing new product candidates that compete or may compete with our product candidates or which have greater commercial potential. If one of our collaborators should decide that the product or a product candidate that the collaborator is developing would be more profitable for the collaborator than our product candidate covered by the collaboration or license agreement, the collaborator may withdraw support for our product candidate or may cease to perform under our agreement. In the event of a termination of the collaborator’s agreement upon such cessation of performance, we would need to negotiate an agreement with another collaborator in order to continue the development and commercialization efforts for the product candidate. If we were unsuccessful in negotiating another agreement, we might have to cease development activities of the particular product candidate. For example, our development and commercialization agreements with GSK and AstraZeneca are subject to this risk. GSK has publicly disclosed that it is exploring the development of compounds for the treatment of migraine. If GSK decides to focus its development and commercialization efforts on its own products rather than continuing to commercialize Treximet or work with us on any other product candidates that may be developed under the agreement, it has the ability to terminate our agreement upon 90 days’ written notice. And under the terms of our agreement with AstraZeneca, either party has the right to terminate the agreement by notice in writing to the other party upon or after any material breach of the agreement by the other party, if the other party has not cured the breach within 90 days after written notice to cure has been given, with certain exceptions. The parties also can terminate the agreement for cause under certain defined conditions. In addition, AstraZeneca can terminate the agreement, at any time, at will, for any reason or no reason, in its entirety or with respect to countries outside the U.S., upon 90 days’ notice. If terminated at will, AstraZeneca will owe us a specified termination payment or, if termination occurs after the product is launched, AstraZeneca may, at its option, under and subject to the satisfaction of conditions specified in the agreement, elect to transfer the product and all rights to us. However, under the circumstance above, or similar circumstance, we may need to enter into a new development and commercialization agreement and may need to start the development process all over again. If we were able to negotiate a new development and commercialization agreement to develop our technology, which is not certain, or if we decide to commercialize the products previously partnered by ourselves, we would face delays and redundant expenses in that development. We need to maintain current agreements and enter into additional agreements with third parties that possess sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or establish internally the capability to perform these functions, in order to successfully market and sell our future drug products. We have no sales or distribution personnel or capabilities at the present time. If we are unable to maintain current collaborations or enter into additional collaborations with established pharmaceutical or pharmaceutical services companies to provide those capabilities, or, alternatively, we are unable to develop sales and distribution capabilities, either internally or through the use of third parties, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our products. To the extent that we enter into marketing and sales agreements with third parties, such as our agreement with GSK which gives GSK responsibility for marketing and selling Treximet in the United States, our revenues, if any, will be affected by the sales and marketing efforts of those third parties. We have decided to retain control of our PA product candidates. We have hired a chief commercial officer to evaluate the commercial opportunities for our product candidates and develop a worldwide commercial strategy, which will include developing internal commercialization capabilities to enable us to commercialize future products ourselves. We cannot guarantee that, should we elect to develop our own internal sales and distribution capabilities, we would have sufficient resources to do so, or would be able to hire the qualified sales and marketing personnel we would need. We need to conduct preclinical, toxicology, genotoxicity and carcinogenicity and other safety studies, and clinical trials for our product candidates. Any negative or unanticipated results, unforeseen costs or delays in the conduct of these studies or trials, or the need to conduct additional studies or trials or to seek to persuade the FDA to evaluate the results of a study or trial in a different manner, could cause us to discontinue development of a product candidate or reduce, delay or eliminate our receipt of potential revenues for one or more of our product candidates and adversely affect our ability to achieve profitability. - 24 - - Table of Contents Generally, we must demonstrate the efficacy and safety of our product candidates before approval to market can be obtained from the FDA or the regulatory authorities in other countries. Our existing and future product candidates are and will be in various stages of clinical development. Depending upon the type of product candidate and the stage of the development process of a product candidate, we will need to complete preclinical, toxicology, genotoxicity and carcinogenicity and other safety studies, as well as clinical trials, on these product candidates before we submit marketing applications in the United States and abroad. These studies and trials can be very costly and time-consuming. For example, long-term cardiovascular safety studies, such as those the FDA has indicated will be required for approval of certain product candidates containing NSAIDs, typically take approximately three years. In addition, we rely on third parties to perform significant aspects of our studies and clinical trials, introducing additional sources of risk into our development programs. It should be noted that the results of any of our preclinical and clinical trial testing are not necessarily predictive of results we will obtain in subsequent or more extensive clinical trials or testing. This may occur for many reasons, including, among others, differences in study design, including inclusion/exclusion criteria, the variability of patient characteristics, including patient symptoms at the time of study treatment, the larger scale testing of patients in later trials, or differences in formulation or doses of the product candidate used in later trials. For example, our results from the first of our two Phase 3 pivotal clinical trials of Treximet differed from the results of our second Phase 3 clinical trial and from the Phase 2 proof-of-concept trial of MT 400 that we conducted prior to entering into our collaboration with GSK. Whereas in the Phase 2 trial statistical significance was reached at two hours over placebo in the relief of all associated symptoms of migraine (nausea, photophobia and phonophobia), in the first Phase 3 study Treximet failed to achieve statistical significance at two hours compared to placebo in the relief of nausea. In the second Phase 3 pivotal clinical trial, Treximet demonstrated superiority over the individual components measured by sustained pain-free response (p<0.001 vs. naproxen; p=0.009 vs. sumatriptan) and met all other regulatory endpoints versus placebo. The successful completion of any of our clinical trials depends upon many factors, including the rate of enrollment of patients. If we are unable to recruit sufficient clinical patients during the appropriate period, we may need to delay our clinical trials and incur significant additional costs. We also rely on the compliance of our clinical trial investigators with FDA regulatory requirements and noncompliance can result in disqualification of a clinical trial investigator and data that are unusable. In addition, the FDA or Institutional Review Boards may require us to conduct additional trials or delay, restrict or discontinue our clinical trials, including our pivotal trials for PA32540, on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Further, even though we may have completed all clinical trials for a product candidate that were planned for submission in support of a marketing application, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, studies or investigations or to submit additional data to support our marketing applications. In addition, we and/or our marketing or development partners may determine that pre-approval marketing support studies should be conducted. Unanticipated adverse outcomes of such studies, including recognition of certain risks to human subjects, could a have material impact on the approval of filed or planned market applications or could result in limits placed on the marketing of the product. We may also determine from time to time that it would be necessary to seek to provide justification to the FDA or other regulatory agency that would result in evaluation of the results of a study or clinical trial in a manner that differs from the way the regulatory agency initially or customarily evaluated the results. In addition, we may have unexpected results in our preclinical or clinical trials or other studies that require us to reconsider the need for certain studies or trials or cause us to discontinue development of a product candidate. For example, in reviewing our NDA for Treximet, the FDA expressed concern about the potential implications from one preclinical in vitro chromosomal aberration study, one of four standard genotoxicity assays, in which a possible genotoxicity signal was seen for the combination of naproxen sodium and sumatriptan. Further, additional information about potential drug-drug interactions may restrict the patient population for our products, thus limiting the potential market and our potential revenue. For example, recent scientific publications contain conflicting data regarding a possible interaction between clopidogrel (Plavix®), a widely prescribed anti-platelet agent, and proton pump inhibitor products, and its impact on cardiovascular outcomes. If the clinical relevance of the possible interaction is unresolved by the time PA 32540 enters the marketplace, even if the interaction is later proven definitively to have no clinical impact on cardiovascular outcomes, the market potential of the product may be reduced. Once submitted, an NDA requires FDA approval before the product described in the application can be distributed or commercialized. Even if we determine that data from our clinical trials, toxicology, genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies are positive, we cannot assure you that the FDA, after completing its analysis, will not determine that the trials or studies should have been conducted or analyzed differently, and thus reach a different conclusion from that reached by us, or request that further trials, studies or analyses be conducted. For example, the FDA requested additional safety information on Treximet in the approvable letter we received in June 2006 relating to our NDA for Treximet, which required conduct of additional studies, and in August 2007, we received a second approvable letter in which the FDA raised an additional concern about the potential implications from one preclinical in vitro chromosomal aberration study, one of four standard genotoxicity assays, in which a genotoxicity signal was seen for the combination of naproxen sodium and sumatriptan. - 25 - - Table of Contents Further, although we believed that we provided the necessary data to support approval of the NDAs for MT 100, our proprietary combination of metoclopramide hydrochloride and naproxen sodium, and MT 300, the FDA issued not-approvable letters for the MT 100 and MT 300 NDAs in May 2004 and October 2003, respectively, and based upon our understandings from our most recent communication with the FDA and our understanding of the FDA’s current standards for approval of migraine drugs, we do not believe it is possible to reverse the not approvable status of the NDA for MT 300. In addition, based upon our receipt of the not approvable letter for MT 100 and the outcome of an August 2005 FDA Advisory Committee meeting relating to the potential risk of tardive dyskinesia associated with the use of metacloprimide, one of the components of MT 100, we made the decision to discontinue further development of MT 100 and we have withdrawn the MAA for the product in the U.K. The FDA may also require data in certain subpopulations, such as pediatric use, or, if such studies were not previously completed, may require long-term carcinogenicity studies, prior to NDA approval, unless we can obtain a waiver of such a requirement. We face similar regulatory hurdles in other countries to those that we face in the U.S. Our costs associated with our human clinical trials vary based on a number of factors, including: · the order and timing of clinical indications pursued; · the extent of development and financial support from collaborative parties, if any; · the need to conduct additional clinical trials or studies; · the number of patients required for enrollment; · the difficulty of obtaining sufficient patient populations and clinicians; · the difficulty of obtaining clinical supplies of our product candidates; and · governmental and regulatory delays. We currently depend and will in the future depend on third parties to manufacture our product candidates. If these manufacturers fail to meet our requirements or any regulatory requirements, the product development and commercialization of our product candidates will be delayed. We do not have, and have no plans to develop, the internal capability to manufacture either clinical trial or commercial quantities of products that we may develop or have under development. We rely upon third-party manufacturers and our partners to supply us with our product candidates. We also need supply contracts to sell our products commercially. There is no guarantee that manufacturers that enter into commercial supply contracts with us will be financially viable entities going forward, or will not otherwise breach or terminate their agreements with us. If we do not have the necessary commercial supply contracts, or if our current manufacturer is, or any of our future manufacturers are, unable to satisfy our requirements or meet any regulatory requirements, and we are required to find alternative sources of supply, there may be additional costs and delays in product development and commercialization of our product candidates or we may be required to comply with additional regulatory requirements. If our competitors develop and commercialize products faster than we do or if their products are superior to ours, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. Our product candidates will have to compete with existing and any newly developed migraine therapies or therapies for any newly developed product candidates for the treatment of other diseases. There are also likely to be numerous competitors developing new products to treat migraine and the other diseases and conditions for which we may seek to develop products in the future, which could render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. For example, our primary competitors will likely include large pharmaceutical companies (including, based upon their current migraine portfolios, GSK, Merck & Co., AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, Inc. and Endo Pharmaceuticals), biotechnology companies, universities and public and private research institutions. The competition for our PN products that receive regulatory approval will come from the oral NSAID market, or more specifically the traditional non-selective NSAIDs (such as naproxen and diclofenac), traditional NSAID/gastroprotective agent combination products or combination product packages (such as Arthrotec® and Prevacid® NapraPACTM), combinations of NSAIDs and PPIs taken as separate pills and the only remaining COX-2 inhibitor, Celebrex®. The competition for our PA product candidates for which we are conducting studies for secondary prevention of cardiovascular events will come from aspirin itself as well as other products used for secondary prevention. AstraZeneca, with whom we are collaborating in the development of VIMOVO, has publicly announced that it has filed a NDA for a combination product containing aspirin and esomeprazole which, if approved, will enter the market before and may compete with our PA32540 product candidates. - 26 - - Table of Contents Based upon their drug product and pipeline portfolios and the overall competitiveness of our industry, we believe that we face, and will continue to face, intense competition from other companies for securing collaborations with pharmaceutical companies, establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, and acquiring licenses to proprietary technology. Our competitors, either alone or with collaborative parties, may also succeed with technologies or products that are more effective than any of our current or future technologies or products. Many of our actual or potential competitors, either alone or together with collaborative parties, have substantially greater financial resources, and almost all of our competitors have larger numbers of scientific and administrative personnel than we do. Many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative parties, also have significantly greater experience than we do in: · developing product candidates; · undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; · obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of product candidates; and · manufacturing and marketing products. Accordingly, our actual or potential competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA or other regulatory approval or commercializing products where we cannot or before we do. Any delays we encounter in obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates, such as we experienced as a result of the approvable letters we received from the FDA in June 2006 and August 2007 relating to the Treximet NDA, and as a result of the not-approvable letters we received from the FDA on MT 100 and MT 300 increase this risk. Our competitors may also develop products or technologies that are superior to those that we are developing, and render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. If we cannot successfully compete with new or existing products, our marketing and sales will suffer and we may not ever receive any revenues from sales of products or may not receive sufficient revenues to achieve profitability. If we are unable to defend our patents in patent infringement lawsuits against generic companies filing ANDAs for our products, our business may be materially harmed. Further, defending against these lawsuits may be expensive and will divert the attention of our management. We and GSK have received Paragraph IV Notice Letters from Par, Alphapharm, and Alphapharm’s designated agent, Mylan, Teva and Dr. Reddy’s informing us that each company had filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, with the FDA, seeking approval to market sumatriptan 85 mg/naproxen sodium 500 mg tablets. Par, Alphapharm, Teva and Dr. Reddy’s have each indicated in their respective Notice Letters that they intend to market a generic version of Treximet tablets before the expiration of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,060,499, 6,586,458 and 7,332,183. GSK advised us that it has elected not to exercise its first right to bring infringement suits against Par, Alphapharm, Teva, and Dr. Reddy’s. Accordingly, we filed suit against Par on November 14, 2008, Alphapharm and Mylan on January 2, 2009, Teva on April 14, 2009, and Dr. Reddy’s on August 21, 2009, all in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. All four actions have since been consolidated into one suit. Our filing of these patent infringement lawsuits within forty-five days of our receipt of the respective Notice Letters from Par, Alphapharm and Teva resulted in the FDA automatically instituting a stay, or bar, of approval of Par’s, Alphapharm’s, Teva’s, and Dr. Reddy’s respective ANDAs for up to 30 months or until a final court decision is entered in the infringement suit in favor of the ANDA applicant, whichever occurs first. Treximet currently has regulatory exclusivity through April 15, 2011. Treximet may be eligible for an additional six months of exclusivity upon the completion of certain pediatric studies. Written and document discovery are in progress. The cases are set for trial in the fourth quarter of 2010. As with any litigation proceeding, we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of the patent infringement lawsuits against Par, Alphapharm, Teva and Dr. Reddy’s. Furthermore, we will have to continue to incur expenses in connection with these lawsuits, which may likely be substantial. In the event of an adverse outcome or outcomes, our business could be materially harmed. Moreover, responding to and defending pending litigation will result in a significant diversion of management’s attention and resources and an increase in professional fees. If we are unable to protect our patents or proprietary rights, or if we are unable to operate our business without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of others, we may be unable to develop our product candidates or compete effectively. The pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability, and the ability of our licensors, to obtain and to keep protection for our products and technologies under the patent laws of the United States and other countries, so that we can stop others from using our inventions. Our success also will depend on our ability to prevent others from using our trade secrets. In addition, we must operate in a way that does not infringe, or violate, the patent, trade secret and other intellectual property rights of other parties. - 27 - - Table of Contents We cannot know how much protection, if any, our patents will provide or whether our patent applications will issue as patents. The breadth of claims that will be allowed in patent applications cannot be predicted and neither the validity nor enforceability of claims in issued patents can be assured. If, for any reason, we are unable to obtain and enforce valid claims covering our products and technology, we may be unable to prevent competitors from using the same or similar technology or to prevent competitors from marketing identical products. For example, if we are unsuccessful in litigation against Par, Alphapharm, Teva, Dr. Reddy’s, and other companies who may file ANDAs for Treximet, such companies could market a generic version of the product after marketing exclusivity expires. In addition, due to the extensive time needed to develop, test and obtain regulatory approval for our products, any patents that protect our product candidates may expire early during commercialization. This may reduce or eliminate any market advantages that such patents may give us. In certain territories outside the U.S., our issued patents may be subject to opposition by competitors within a certain time after the patent is issued. Such opposition proceedings and related appeals may not be resolved for several years, and may result in the partial or total revocation of the issued patent. For example, in October 2005 oppositions were filed against our issued European patent for MT 400 by Merck & Co., Inc. and Almirall Prodesfarma asserting that the European patent should not have been granted. As a result of these oppositions and subsequent proceedings, the European Patent Office found that claims relating to combinations of sumatriptan and naproxen for the treatment of migraine were valid. However, broader claims relating to certain other 5-HT 1B/1D agonists and long-acting NSAIDs were held to be insufficiently supported by the presently available technical evidence. We may need to submit our issued patents for amendment or reissue if we determine that any claims within our patents should not have been issued. While such a submission may be based on our view that only specified claims should not have been granted to us, there can be no assurance that a patent examiner will not determine that additional claims should not have been granted to us. Such was the case with one of our patents covering MT 100, which we submitted for reissue after determining that certain specified claims that are not central to our protection of MT 100 should not have been issued. In April 2006, we received an office action on the reissue application and, consistent with our decision not to devote further resources to the development of this product in the U.S., the reissue application was abandoned in January 2007. We may need to license rights to third party patents and intellectual property to continue the development and marketing of our product candidates. If we are unable to acquire such rights on acceptable terms, our development activities may be blocked and we may be unable to bring our product candidates to market. We may enter into litigation to defend ourselves against claims of infringement, assert claims that a third party is infringing one or more of our patents, protect our trade secrets or know-how, or determine the scope and validity of others’ patent or proprietary rights. For example, we filed patent infringement lawsuits against Par, Alphapharm and Teva in the federal court in the Eastern District of Texas in connection with their respective ANDA submissions to the FDA containing paragraph IV certifications for approval to market sumatriptan 85 mg/naproxen sodium 500 mg tablets, a generic version of Treximet tablets, before the expiration of our patents. With respect to some of our product candidates, under certain circumstances, our development or commercialization collaborators have the first right to enforce our patents and would have exclusive control over such enforcement litigation. For example, under our collaboration agreements with GSK and AstraZeneca, GSK and AstraZeneca each has the first right to enforce our patents under their respective agreements. GSK advised us that it has elected not to exercise its first right to bring an infringement suit against Par, Alphapharm, Teva, and Dr. Reddy’s, each of which have submitted ANDAs to the FDA for approval to market a generic version of Treximet tablets. If we are found to infringe the patent rights of others, then we may be forced to pay damages in an amount that might irreparably harm our business and/or be prevented from continuing our product development and marketing activities. Additionally, if we or our development or commercialization collaborator seek to enforce our patents and are unsuccessful, we may be subject to claims for bringing a failed enforcement action, including claims alleging various forms of antitrust violations (both state and federal) and unfair competition. If we are found to be liable for such claims, then we may be forced to pay damages in an amount that might irreparably harm our business and/or be prevented from continuing our product development and commercialization activities. Even if we are successful in defending any such claims of infringement or in asserting claims against third parties, such litigation is expensive, may have a material effect on our operations, and may distract management from our business operations. Regardless of its eventual outcome, any lawsuit that we enter into may consume time and resources that would impair our ability to develop and market our product candidates. We have entered into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators. However, these parties may not honor these agreements and, as a result, we may not be able to protect our rights to unpatented trade secrets and know-how. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and know-how. Also, many of our scientific and management personnel were previously employed by competing companies. As a result, such companies may allege trade secret violations and similar claims against us. - 28 - - Table of Contents If we fail to develop, acquire and commercialize additional products or product candidates, or fail to successfully promote or market approved products, we may never achieve profitability. As part of our business strategy, we plan to identify, self-invent and/or acquire product candidates or approved products in areas in which we possess particular knowledge. Because we do not directly engage in basic research or drug discovery, we may rely upon third parties to sell or license product opportunities to us. Other companies, including some with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, are competing with us to acquire such products and product candidates. We may not be able to acquire rights to additional products or product candidates on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, if we acquire new products or product candidates with different marketing strategies, distribution channels and bases of competition than those of our current product candidates, we may not be able to compete favorably in those product categories. None of our products may be accepted by the market. The commercial success of our product candidates depends upon the acceptance of these products in the marketplace. Even if a product displays a favorable efficacy and safety profile in clinical trials, market acceptance of a product will not be known until after it is launched and a product may not generate the revenues that we anticipate. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including: · the acceptance by physicians and third-party payors of Treximet as an alternative to Imitrex, generic sumatriptan, and other therapies; · the receipt and timing of regulatory approvals; · the availability of third-party reimbursement; · the indications for which the product is approved; · the rate of adoption by healthcare providers; · the rate of product acceptance by target patient populations; · the price of the product relative to alternative therapies; · the availability of alternative therapies; · the extent and effectiveness of marketing efforts by our collaborators, and third-party distributors and agents; · the existence of adverse publicity regarding our products or similar products; and · the extent and severity of side effects as compared to alternative therapies. If we do not receive adequate third-party reimbursements for our future products, our revenues and profitability will be reduced. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates successfully will depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, such as Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S., private health insurers and other organizations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of a newly approved healthcare product. Adequate third-party coverage may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product research and development. If adequate coverage and reimbursement levels are not provided by government and third-party payors for use of our products, our products may fail to achieve market acceptance. Our future revenues, profitability and access to capital will be affected by the continuing efforts of governmental and private third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare through various means. We expect that a number of federal, state and foreign proposals will seek to control the cost of drugs through governmental regulation. We are unsure of the form that any healthcare reform legislation may take or what actions federal, state, foreign and private payors may take in response to any proposed reforms. Therefore, we cannot predict the effect of any implemented reform on our business. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our product candidates. The testing and marketing of pharmaceutical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our future products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against such claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit the commercialization of our product candidates. We have product liability insurance that covers our commercialized product and human clinical trials in an amount equal to up to $10 million annual aggregate limit with a $0.1 million deductible per claim. The amount of insurance that we currently hold may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that may occur. However, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. We will explore, on an on-going basis, expanding our insurance coverage related to the sale of Treximet and for the inclusion of future marketed products when we obtain marketing approval for such products and commercial sales of such products begin. However, we may not be able to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. If a plaintiff brings a successful product liability claim against us in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, we may incur substantial liabilities and our business may be harmed or fail. - 29 - - Table of Contents We may need additional funding and may not have access to capital. If we are unable to raise capital when needed, we may need to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development or commercialization efforts. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds to execute our business strategy. We have incurred losses from operations since inception and we may continue to incur additional operating losses. Our actual capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: · the progress of our research and development programs; · the progress of preclinical studies, clinical and other testing or the need conduct additional trials, studies or other testing; · the time and cost involved in obtaining any regulatory approvals; · the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; · the effect of competing technological and market developments; · the timing of our receipt, if any, of milestone payments and royalties under collaborative agreements; · the effect of changes and developments in, or termination of, our collaborative, license and other relationships; · the terms and timing of any additional collaborative, license and other arrangements that we may establish; and · our ability to commercialize or arrange for the commercialization of our product candidates. Our operating expenses for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 totaled $40.2 million, ($34.7 million net of development revenue received from AstraZeneca for development activities performed under the agreement) including non-cash compensation expense of $5.1 million related to stock options and other stock-based awards, primarily associated with our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006. For fiscal years 2007 through 2009, our average annual operating expenses (including average non-cash deferred compensation of $5.2 million) were $55.3 million ($37.9 million net of development revenue received from AstraZeneca for development activities performed under the agreement). As of December 31, 2009, we had an aggregate of $46.7 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Our operating expenses for 2010 and 2011 may exceed the net level of our operating expenses in 2009, should we decide to conduct pre-commercialization activities as a result of our decision to retain control of our PA product candidate. We believe that we will have sufficient cash reserves and cash flow to maintain that level of business activities through 2011. However, our anticipated cash flow includes continued receipt of royalty revenue from GSK’s sale of Treximet, an assumption of additional, new royalty revenue from AstraZeneca’s sale of VIMOVO and an assumption that we will receive milestone payments upon VIMOVO’s regulatory approvals, including a $20.0 million milestone payment upon FDA approval of VIMOVO. In addition, our expenses might increase during that period beyond currently expected levels if we decide to, or any regulatory agency requires us to, conduct additional clinical trials, studies or investigations for any of our product candidates, including in connection with the agency’s consideration, or reconsideration, of our regulatory filings for our product candidates. In the event FDA approval of the market launch of VIMOVO is materially delayed, royalty revenue and cash receipts from sales of the product would also be delayed. If our projected revenues decrease, if our projected expenses increase for product candidates currently in development, or if we pursue additional indications for our PA product candidate, then, as a result of these or other factors, we may need to raise additional capital. We may be unable to raise additional equity funds when we desire to do so due to unfavorable market conditions in our industry or generally, or other unforeseen developments in our business. Further, we may not be able to find sufficient debt or equity funding, if at all, on acceptable terms. If we cannot, we may need to delay, reduce or eliminate research and development programs and therefore may not be able to execute our business strategy. Further, to the extent that we obtain additional funding through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary for us to give up valuable rights to our development programs or technologies or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. The sale by us of additional equity securities or the expectation that we will sell additional equity securities may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. - 30 - - Table of Contents We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which would harm our research and development efforts. We are highly dependent on the efforts of our key management and scientific personnel, especially John R. Plachetka, Pharm.D., our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Dr. Plachetka signed an amended and restated employment agreement with us on March 14, 2006, which was amended on September 28, 2007, for a three-year term with automatic one-year renewal terms. We have also entered into employment agreements with certain of our other key management personnel, which provide for one or two-year terms with automatic one-year renewal terms which were amended on September 28, 2007. If we should lose the services of Dr. Plachetka, or are unable to replace the services of our other key personnel who may leave the Company, such as Dr. Everardus Orlemans, Ph.D., Senior Vice President, Product Development, John G. Fort, M.D., Chief Medical Officer, William L. Hodges, Senior Vice President Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer, or Elizabeth A. Cermak, Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, or if we fail to recruit other key scientific personnel, we may be unable to achieve our business objectives. There is intense competition for qualified scientific personnel. Since our business is very science-oriented, we need to continue to attract and retain such people. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for developing our business. Furthermore, our future success may also depend in part on the continued service of our other key management personnel and our ability to recruit and retain additional personnel, as required by our business. Risks Related to Potential Commercialization of our Product Candidates We are currently evaluating the commercial opportunities for our current product candidates in connection with our development of a worldwide commercialization strategy. If we decide to pursue the commercial opportunities for our future products ourselves and we are unable to develop sales and marketing capabilities on our own, or through contract sales forces or acquisition, we will not be able to fully exploit the commercial potential of our future products and the costs of pursuing such a strategy may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Although we do not have sales and marketing experience, we are currently evaluating the commercial opportunities for our product candidates in connection with our development of a worldwide commercialization strategy. If we decide to pursue commercialization opportunities for our future products ourselves, we anticipate making significant expenditures to grow a sales force to sell such products and expand our marketing capabilities to support such growth. In order to successfully exploit our future products, we must successfully market and sell our products and establish or develop the needed third party contracts to market and distribute these products. Any failure or extended delay in the expansion of our sales and marketing capabilities or inability to effectively operate in the marketplace could adversely impact our business. There can be no assurance that if we decide to pursue commercialization opportunities ourselves that our sales and marketing efforts will generate significant revenues and costs of pursuing such a strategy may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Events or factors that may inhibit or hinder our commercialization efforts include: ● · developing our own commercial team will be expensive and time-consuming and could result in high cash burn or reduced profitability; ● · failure to acquire sufficient or suitable personnel to establish, oversee, or implement our commercialization strategy; ● · failure to recruit, train, oversee and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; ● · failure to acquire sales personnel that can effectively obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products; ● · unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating or acquiring and sustaining an independent sales and marketing organization; ● · incurrence of costs in advance of anticipated revenues and subsequent failure to generate sufficient revenue to offset additional costs; and ● · our ability to fund our commercialization efforts on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we decide to pursue commercialization opportunities for our future products ourselves, failure to comply with the laws governing the marketing and sale of such future products may result in regulatory agencies taking action against us, which could significantly harm our business. If we decide to pursue commercial opportunities for our future products ourselves, we will be subject to a large body of legal and regulatory requirements. In particular, there are many federal, state and local laws that we will need to comply with if we become engaged in the marketing, promoting, distribution and sale of pharmaceutical products. The FDA extensively regulates, among other things, promotions and advertising of prescription drugs. In addition, the marketing and sale - 31 - - Table of Contents of prescription drugs must comply with the Federal fraud and abuse laws, which are enforced by the Office of the Inspector General of the Division, or OIG, of the Department of Health and Human Services. These laws make it illegal for anyone to give or receive anything of value in exchange for a referral for a product or service that is paid for, in whole or in part, by any federal health program. The federal government can pursue fines and penalties under the Federal False Claims Act which makes it illegal to file, or induce or assist another person in filing, a fraudulent claim for payment to any governmental agency. Because, as part of our commercialization efforts, we may provide physicians with samples we will be required to comply with the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, or PDMA, which governs the distribution of prescription drug samples to healthcare practitioners. Among other things, the PDMA prohibits the sale, purchase or trade of prescription drug samples. It also sets out record keeping and other requirements for distributing samples to licensed healthcare providers. In addition, we will need to comply with the body of laws comprised of the Medicaid Rebate Program, the Veterans’ Health Care Act of 1992 and the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005. This body of law governs product pricing for government reimbursement and sets forth detailed formulas for how we must calculate and report the pricing of our products so as to ensure that the federally funded programs will get the best price. Moreover, many states have enacted laws dealing with fraud and abuse, false claims, the distribution of prescription drug samples and gifts and the calculation of best price. These laws typically mirror the federal laws but in some cases, the state laws are more stringent than the federal laws and often differ from state to state, making compliance more difficult. We expect more states to enact similar laws, thus increasing the number and complexity of requirements with which we would need to comply. Compliance with this body of laws is complicated, time consuming and expensive. Because we do not have experience in developing, managing and training our employees regarding, a comprehensive healthcare compliance program, we cannot assure you that we will be in compliance with all potentially applicable laws and regulations. Even minor, inadvertent irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that the law has been violated. Failure to comply with all potentially applicable laws and regulations could lead to penalties such as the imposition of significant fines, debarment from participating in drug development and marketing and the exclusion from government-funded healthcare programs. The imposition of one or more of these penalties could adversely affect our revenues and our ability to conduct our business as planned. In addition, the Federal False Claims Act, which allows any person to bring suit alleging the false or fraudulent submission of claims for payment under federal programs and other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. Such suits, known as qui tam actions, have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that companies like us may have to defend a false claim action. We could also become subject to similar false claims litigation under state statutes. If we are unsuccessful in defending any such action, such action may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Factors That May Affect Our Stockholders Our stock price is volatile, which may result in significant losses to stockholders. There has been significant volatility in the market prices of biotechnology companies’ securities. Various factors and events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. These factors include: · fluctuations in our operating results; · announcements of technological innovations, acquisitions or licensing of therapeutic products or product candidates by us or our competitors; · published reports by securities analysts; · positive or negative progress with our clinical trials or with regulatory approvals of our product candidates; · commercial success of Treximet and our other products in the marketplace once approved; · governmental regulation, including reimbursement policies; · developments in patent or other proprietary rights; · developments in our relationships with collaborative partners; · announcements by our collaborative partners regarding our products or product candidates; · developments in new or pending litigation; · public concern as to the safety and efficacy of our products; and · general market conditions. The trading price of our common stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to these factors, including the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of our common stock into the market. From October 16, 2000, when our common stock began trading on The NASDAQ National Market (now known as The NASDAQ Global Market), through February 20, 2009, the high and low sales prices of our common stock ranged from $2.25 to $21.75. Broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. - 32 - - Table of Contents Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market by us or our largest stockholders could depress our stock price. We have not sold shares of common stock in a public offering since our initial public offering in October 2000. Accordingly, we have a relatively small number of shares that are traded in the market. Approximately 14% of our outstanding shares are beneficially held by John Plachetka, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Additionally, we believe, based upon our review of public filings by certain stockholders and other publicly available information, an aggregate of approximately 25% of our outstanding share are held by four other stockholders, with no one stockholder beneficially owning greater than 9% of our outstanding shares. Any sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including sales or distributions of shares by our large stockholders, or the perception that such sales or distributions might occur, could harm the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. For example, our executive officers may sell shares pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. Further, stockholders’ ownership will be diluted if we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities. We filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf registration statement on Form S-3, which became effective January 15, 2009, for an offering under which we may register up to 8,540,000 shares of our common stock for sale to the public in one or more public offerings. Certain selling stockholders named in the prospectus for the registration statement may offer up to 540,000 of such shares, and we would not receive any of the proceeds from sales of those shares. Purchasers of our common stock in any future offerings by us will incur immediate dilution to the extent of the difference between our net tangible book value per share after the offering and the price paid per share by new investors. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could prevent or delay transactions that our stockholders may favor and may prevent stockholders from changing the direction of our business or our management. Provisions of our charter and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares, and may also frustrate or prevent any attempt by stockholders to change the direction or management of POZEN. For example, these provisions: · authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders; · provide for a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; · require supermajority stockholder approval to effect various amendments to our charter and bylaws; · eliminate the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; · prohibit stockholder action by written consent; and · establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Further, in January 2005 our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan, similar to plans adopted by many other publicly-traded companies. The stockholder rights plan is intended to deter an attempt to acquire us in a manner or on terms not approved by our board of directors. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market by us or our largest stockholders could depress our stock price. We have not sold shares of common stock in a public offering since our initial public offering in October 2000. Accordingly, we have a relatively small number of shares that are traded in the market. Approximately 14% of our outstanding shares are beneficially held by John Plachetka, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Additionally, we believe, based upon our review of public filings by certain stockholders and other publicly available information, an aggregate of approximately 25% of our outstanding share are held by four other stockholders, with no one stockholder beneficially owning greater than 9% of our outstanding shares. Any sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including sales or distributions of shares by our large stockholders, or the perception that such sales or distributions might occur, could harm the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. For example, our executive officers may sell shares pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. Further, stockholders’ ownership will be diluted if we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities. We filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf registration statement on Form S-3, which became effective January 15, 2009, for an offering under which we may register up to 8,540,000 shares of our common stock for sale to the public in one or more public offerings. Certain selling stockholders named in the prospectus for the registration statement may offer up to 540,000 of such shares, and we would not receive any of the proceeds from sales of those shares. Purchasers of our common stock in any future offerings by us will incur immediate dilution to the extent of the difference between our net tangible book value per share after the offering and the price paid per share by new investors. - 33 - - Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could prevent or delay transactions that our stockholders may favor and may prevent stockholders from changing the direction of our business or our management. Provisions of our charter and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares, and may also frustrate or prevent any attempt by stockholders to change the direction or management of POZEN. For example, these provisions: · authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders; · provide for a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; · require supermajority stockholder approval to effect various amendments to our charter and bylaws; · eliminate the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; · prohibit stockholder action by written consent; and · establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Further, in January 2005 our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan, similar to plans adopted by many other publicly-traded companies. The stockholder rights plan is intended to deter an attempt to acquire us in a manner or on terms not approved by our board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 