Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following specific risk factors as well as other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report, as these, among others, are important factors, that could cause our actual results to differ from our expected historical results. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all our potential risks or uncertainties. Risk Factors Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. On December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 we had total indebtedness of approximately $92.1 million, $109.8 million and $161.1 million, respectively. Our indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, growth initiatives, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests; · limit our ability to use capital as a means of retaining existing clients and attracting new clients; · be required to be repaid if we experience a change of control; · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and greater financial resources; and · limit our ability to borrow additional funds. We cannot assure you that cash flow from operations, combined with additional borrowings under the senior credit facility and any future credit facility will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay our indebtedness, or to fund other liquidity needs. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, which could cause the related risks to intensify. We will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness including our senior credit facility and the 9 1/4% notes, on or before their respective maturities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness including our senior credit facility and the 91¤4% notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to refinance our debt, we may default under the terms of our indebtedness, which could lead to an acceleration of the debt. We do not expect that we could repay all of our outstanding indebtedness if the repayment of such indebtedness were accelerated. Our working capital and liquidity may be affected if a significant number of our clients require us to deposit all parking revenues into their respective accounts. We frequently contract with clients to hold parking revenues in our account and remit the revenues, minus the operating expenses and our fee, to our clients at the end of the month. Some clients, however, require us to deposit parking revenues in their accounts on a daily basis. This type of arrangement requires 16 us to pay costs as they are incurred and receive reimbursement and the management fee after the end of the month. There can be no assurance that a significant number of clients will not switch to the practice of requiring us to deposit all parking revenues into their respective accounts, which would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Our business would suffer if the use of parking facilities we operate decreased. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from the operation and management of parking facilities. Our business would suffer if the use of parking facilities in urban areas or at or near airports decreased. Further, our success depends on our ability to adapt and improve our products in response to evolving client needs and industry trends. If demand for parking is low due to decreased car and airplane travel resulting from increased gasoline prices, inclement weather, increased regulation, general economic slowdown or other factors, our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to achieve sufficient cash flow to service our indebtedness, may be materially adversely affected. The operation of our business is dependent upon key personnel. Our success is, and will continue to be, substantially dependent upon the continued services of our executive management team. The loss of the services of one or more of the members of our executive management team could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we have entered into employment agreements with, and historically have been successful in retaining the services of, our executive management, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain them in the future. In addition, our continued growth depends upon our ability to attract and retain skilled operating managers and employees. We have significant financial obligations under our lease at Bradley International Airport. We are entered into a 25-year lease with the State of Connecticut that expires on April 6, 2025, under which we lease the surface parking and 3,500 garage parking spaces at Bradley International Airport located in the Hartford, Connecticut metropolitan area. The parking garage was financed on April 6, 2000 through the issuance of $47.7 million of State of Connecticut special facility revenue bonds. The Bradley agreement provides that we deposit with a trustee for the bondholders all gross revenues collected from operations of the surface and garage parking, and from these gross revenues, the trustee pays debt service on the special facility revenue bonds, operating and capital maintenance expenses of the surface and garage parking facilities and specific annual guaranteed minimum payments to the State. Principal and interest on the Bradley special facility revenue bonds increases from approximately $3.6 million in lease year 2002 to approximately $4.5 million in lease year 2025. Our annual guaranteed minimum payments to the State increase from approximately $8.3 million in lease year 2002 to approximately $13.2 million in lease year 2024. To the extent that monthly gross receipts are not sufficient for the trustee to make the required payments, we are obligated, pursuant to our guaranty agreement, to deliver the deficiency amount to the trustee within three business days of notice. We are responsible for these deficiency payments regardless of the amount of utilization for the Bradley parking facilities. We received net repayments of previous deficiency payments of $1.5 million in 2005. Although the State of Connecticut has an obligation to raise parking rates to offset a decline in usage, there is no guarantee that the State of Connecticut will raise rates enough to offset a decline in usage or that any change in rates will result in revenues sufficient to cover the trustee’s payments without resort to our guaranty. Although we expect to recover all amounts owed to us, we expect that in any given period we may have to make additional deficiency payments. 17 Our business would be harmed if fewer clients obtain insurance coverage through us. Many of our clients have historically chosen to obtain liability insurance coverage for the locations we manage by being named as additional insureds under our master insurance policies. Clients do, however, have the option of purchasing such insurance independently, as long as we are named as an additional insured pursuant to an additional insured endorsement. We purchase insurance policies at prices that we believe represent a discount to the prices that would typically be charged to parking facility owners on a stand-alone basis. Pursuant to our management contracts, we allocate a portion of our risk management costs, at rates we believe are competitive, to those clients who choose to obtain their insurance coverage by being named as additional insured’s under our insurance policies. A material reduction in the number of clients who choose to obtain their insurance coverage from us in that manner could have a material adverse effect on our operating income. Additional funds would need to be reserved for future insurance losses if such losses are worse than expected. We provide liability and worker’s compensation insurance coverage consistent with our obligations to our clients under our various management contracts and leases. We are obligated to reimburse our insurance carrier for each loss incurred in the current policy year up to the amount of a deductible specified in our insurance policies. The deductible for our various liability and workers’ compensation policies is $250,000. We also purchase property insurance that provides coverage for loss or damage to our property, and in some cases our clients’ property, as well as business interruption coverage for lost operating income and certain associated expenses. The deductible applicable to any given loss under our property insurance policy varies based upon the insured values and the peril that causes the loss. Our financial statements reflect our funding of all such obligations based upon guidance and evaluation we have received from third-party insurance professionals. There can be no assurance, however, that the ultimate amount of our obligations will not exceed the amount presently funded or accrued, in which case we would need to set aside additional funds to reserve for any such excess. Our obligations could increase if we receive a greater number of insurance claims or the cost of claims generally increases. A material increase in insurance costs due to a change in the number of claims, claims costs or premiums paid by us could have a material adverse effect on our operating income. We face business and financial risk in implementing our growth strategy. We face risks in growing our business, either organically or through acquisitions. Risks include: · Difficulties in the integration of new operations, technologies, products and personnel; · Competitive pressures; · Inability to maintain our standards, controls and procedures; · Risks of entering new geographic or service markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; · Potential loss of employees; · Diversion of management’s attention; and · Expenses of any undisclosed or potential liabilities of any acquired company. Our growth will be directly affected by the results of operations of added parking facilities, which will depend, in turn, upon the competitive environment for acquisitions and new contracts and our ability to obtain suitable financing, contract terms and government licenses and approvals. 18 Our ability to expand our business will be dependent upon the availability of adequate capital. The rate of our expansion will depend in part upon the availability of adequate capital, which in turn will depend in large part upon cash flow generated by our business and the availability of equity and debt capital. We believe that we will be able to obtain equity or debt capital on acceptable terms. However, our senior credit facility, and the indentures governing our 91¤4% notes contain provisions that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and/or make substantial asset sales that might otherwise be used to finance our expansion. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to finance our current growth strategy. The failure to successfully integrate possible future acquisitions or new contracts could have a negative impact on our business. We plan to pursue acquisitions on a selective basis in the future. Successful integration and management of additional facilities will depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that suitable acquisitions or new contract candidates will be identified, that such acquisitions or new contracts will be consummated or that the acquired operations or new contracts can be integrated successfully. Any acquisition contemplated or completed by us may result in adverse short-term effects on our reported operating results, divert management’s attention, introduce difficulties in retaining, hiring and training key personnel, and introduce risks associated with unanticipated problems or legal liabilities, cause the incurrence of additional debt, cause the issuance of additional equity, contingent liabilities and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets, some or all of which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. Our management contracts and leases expose us to certain risks. As of December 31, 2005, we operated approximately 86% of our parking facilities pursuant to management contracts. Under these contracts, we typically receive a base monthly fee for managing the facility as well as amounts attributable to ancillary services, and we may also receive an incentive fee based on the achievement of facility performance objectives. However, some management contracts, which are referred to as “reverse” management contracts, usually provide for larger management fees and require the facility manager to pay certain of these parking facility costs, which exposes us to greater risk. Many of these contracts are for a one-year term and may be canceled by the client for various reasons, including development of the real estate for other uses. Many of these contracts are cancelable on as little as 30 days’ notice without cause. Our ability to continue operating in these facilities is based on the client’s satisfaction with our performance. As of December 31, 2005, we operated approximately 14% of our parking facilities pursuant to leases. Although there is generally more potential for income from leased facilities than from management contracts, they also generally carry more risk. Under some of these lease contracts, we are obligated to pay to the owner of the facility a fixed base rent, often regardless of the actual utilization of the facility. Some of these leases can be for periods exceeding ten years. Maintenance and operating expenses for leased facilities are borne by us and are not passed through to the owner, unlike management contracts. A decline in facility utilization could result in lease payments exceeding the revenues received for operating the parking facility. Many of these leases may be canceled by the client for various reasons, including development of the real estate for other uses. Some are cancelable on as little as 30 days’ notice without cause. The loss or renewal on less favorable terms of a substantial number of management contracts or leases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, because certain management contracts and leases are with state, local and quasi-governmental 19 entities, changes to certain governmental entities’ approaches to contracting regarding parking facilities could affect such contracts. A material reduction in the operating income associated with ancillary services we provide under management contracts and leases, including increases in costs or claims associated with, or a reduction in the number of clients purchasing, insurance we provide, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that management contracts and leases are cancelable without cause, most of these contracts would also be cancelable in the event of bankruptcy, despite the automatic stay provisions under bankruptcy law. Our business may be harmed as a result of terrorist attacks. Any terrorist attacks, particularly in the United States or Canada, may negatively impact our business and results of operations. Attacks have resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased government regulation of airlines and airport facilities, including imposition of minimum distances between parking facilities and terminals, resulting in the elimination of currently managed parking facilities, and increased security checks of employees and passengers at airport facilities. These types of regulations could impose costs that we may not be able to pass on to clients and reduce revenues. To the extent that these attacks deter people either from flying or congregating in public areas, demand for parking at airports and at urban centers may decline. This decline may result in fewer owners of these facilities hiring us to manage their parking facilities and lower incentive payments under those contracts where we receive an incentive fee based on facility utilization or other factors. If these attacks cause or exacerbate a slowdown in the general economy, a similar effect may occur. An overall economic slowdown could reduce traffic at parking facilities we operate. Additional terrorist attacks, an escalation of hostilities abroad or war could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a very competitive business environment. Competition in the field of parking facility management is intense. The market is fragmented and is served by a variety of entities ranging from single lot operators to large regional and national multi-facility operators, as well as municipal and other governmental entities that choose not to outsource their parking operations. Competitors with greater resources may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Competitors with greater financial resources may also be able to win contracts that require larger investments in working capital or capital expenditures on the parking facility. Many of our competitors also have long-standing relationships with our clients. Providers of parking facility management services have traditionally competed on the basis of cost and service. As we have worked to establish ourselves as one of the principal members of the industry, we compete predominately on the basis of high levels of service and strong relationships. We may not be able to, or may choose not to, compete with certain competitors on the basis of price. As a result, a greater proportion of our clients may switch to other service providers or self-manage during an economic downturn. Increased government regulation of airports and reduced air travel may affect our performance. We derive a significant percentage of our gross profit from parking facilities and parking related services in and around airports. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 20% of gross profit was derived from those operations. The Federal Aviation Administration generally prohibits parking within 300 feet of airport terminals during periods of heightened security. While the prohibition is not currently in effect, there can be no assurance that this governmental prohibition will not again be reinstated. The existing regulations governing parking within 300 feet of airport terminals or future regulations may prevent us from using certain parking spaces. Reductions in the number of parking spaces and air travelers may reduce our revenues and cash flow for both our leased facilities and those facilities we operate under management contracts. 20 The sureties for our performance bond program may require additional collateral to issue or renew performance bonds in support of certain contracts or may elect not to provide us with new or renewal performance bonds for any reason. Under substantially all of our contracts with municipalities, government entities and airports, we are required to provide a performance bond to support our obligations under the contract. We currently have commitments from certain surety carriers to provide us with a certain amount of bonding capacity without requiring any additional collateral from us. Nevertheless, in the event of any material adverse changes in our financial condition or in the event of changes in the surety industry, the sureties for our performance bond program could require us to collateralize our performance bonds with additional letters of credit. Our need to collateralize surety bonds would reduce the availability of funds under our senior credit facility and limits funds available for debt service, investments in our growth strategies, working capital and capital expenditure requirements. If we are required but are unable to provide sufficient collateral in the future, our sureties may not issue performance bonds to support our obligations under certain contracts. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $0.3 million of letters of credit outstanding as collateral with respect to our sureties issuance of performance bonds. As is customary in the industry, a surety provider can refuse to provide a bond principal with new or renewal surety bonds. If any existing or future surety provider refuses to provide us with surety bonds, there can be no assurance that we would be able to find alternate providers on acceptable terms, or at all. Our inability to provide surety bonds could also result in the loss of existing contracts. Failure to find a provider of surety bonds, and our resulting inability to bid for new contracts or renew existing contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We do not maintain insurance coverage for all possible risks. We maintain a comprehensive portfolio of insurance policies to help protect us against loss or damage incurred from a wide variety of insurable risks. Each year, we review with our professional insurance advisers whether the insurance policies and associated coverages that we maintain are sufficient to adequately protect us from the various types of risk to which we are exposed in the ordinary course of business. That analysis takes into account various pertinent factors such as the likelihood that we would incur a material loss from any given risk when viewed in light of the cost of obtaining insurance coverage against any such risk. While we believe that we maintain a comprehensive portfolio of insurance that is consistent with customary business practices and adequately protects us from the risks that we typically face in the ordinary course of our business, there can be no assurance that we may not sustain a material loss for which we do not maintain insurance coverage. We believe that our client base is becoming more concentrated. Because national property owners, managers and developers and other property management companies tend to own or manage multiple properties, our ability to provide parking services for a large number of properties becomes dependent on our relationships with these entities. As this happens, such clients become more significant to our business. The loss of one of these clients or the sale of properties they own to clients of our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Additionally, large clients with extensive portfolios have greater negotiating power when negotiating contracts, which could adversely affect our profit margins. We must comply with regulations that may impose significant costs on us. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. These laws typically impose liability without 21 regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. In connection with the operation of parking facilities, we may be potentially liable for such costs. Although we are currently not aware of any material environmental claims pending or threatened by any party against us or any of our operated parking facilities, no assurances can be given that a material environmental claim will not be asserted against us or against the parking facilities we operate. The cost of defending against claims of liability, or of remediating a contaminated property, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Various other governmental regulations affect our operation of parking facilities, both directly and indirectly, including air quality laws, licensing laws and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA. Under the ADA, all public accommodations, including parking facilities, are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. A determination that we or the facility owner is not in compliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or damage awards against us. In addition, several state and local laws have been passed in recent years that encourage car pooling and the use of mass transit. For example, a Los Angeles, California law prohibits employers from reimbursing employee parking expenses. Laws and regulations that reduce the number of cars and vehicles being driven could adversely impact our business. We collect and remit sales/parking taxes and file tax returns for and on behalf of ourselves and our clients. We are affected by laws and regulations that may impose a direct assessment on us for failure to remit sales/parking taxes and filing of tax returns for ourselves and on behalf of our clients. Prior transactions may limit our ability to utilize our remaining net operating losses and may accelerate future payment of taxes. We have substantial net operating losses, or NOLs, for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes. As a result of the initial public offering completed in June 2004, an ownership change occurred under Internal Revenue Code Section 382 that limits our ability to use pre-change NOLs to reduce future taxable income. We may be unable to renew our insurance coverage. Our liability and worker’s compensation insurance coverage expires on an annual basis. Failure to renew the existing coverage or to procure new coverage would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations by preventing us from accepting new contracts and by placing us in default under a majority of our existing contracts. There can be no assurance that our insurance carriers will in fact be willing to renew our coverage at any rate at the expiration date. Furthermore, a material increase in the cost of insurance premiums could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our parent company, Steamboat Industries LLC, and its wholly owned subsidiary, Steamboat Industries, N.V., which are controlled by our chairman, control our major corporate decisions. Our parent company, Steamboat Industries LLC, and its wholly owned subsidiary, Steamboat Industries N.V., which are controlled by our chairman, John V. Holten, owns 51% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2005. As a result, Steamboat Industries LLC and its subsidiary control us, the election and removal of the directors on our board of directors, and our management and policies. Steamboat Industries LLC and its subsidiary also control all matters regarding stockholder approval, including the amendment of certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and the approval of fundamental corporate transactions. Steamboat Industries LLC also has the ability to pledge shares of our common stock as security for its debt obligations. We have only 12,100,000 shares of capital stock authorized, of which only 1,406,973 shares remain unissued after giving effect to all authorized options under our long-term incentive plan. As a result, we require the consent of Steamboat Industries LLC and its subsidiary in order to authorize and issue additional common stock in connection with 22 corporate actions that may be beneficial to our business or to our stockholders, such as increasing the number of shares authorized under our Long-Term Incentive Plan for the retention of management, acquisitions for stock and mergers. The ability of our parent company to control our major corporate decisions may harm the market price for our common stock by delaying, deferring or preventing a business combination involving our company; causing us to enter into transactions that are not in the best interests of all stockholders or discouraging third-party investors. A majority of our board of directors are not considered “independent” under the rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. Steamboat Industries LLC and its subsidiary own a majority of our common stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” under the rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc., and we rely on the “controlled company” exception to the board of directors and committee composition requirements under rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. Pursuant to this exception, we are exempt from the rule that requires that (i) our board of directors be comprised of a majority of “independent directors”; (ii) our compensation committee be comprised solely of “independent directors”; and (iii) our nominating and corporate governance committee be comprised solely of “independent directors”, as defined under the rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. Because we rely upon this exemption, a majority of our board of directors are not considered “independent”. Furthermore, our compensation and nominating and corporate governance committee are not comprised solely of “independent directors,” as only one member out of the three member-directors for each committee is considered “independent” under the rules of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. The “controlled company” exception does not modify the independence requirements of the audit committee. Many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 25% of our employees are represented by labor unions. Approximately 34% of our collective bargaining contracts, representing 6% of our employees, are up for renewal in 2006. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew existing labor union contracts on acceptable terms. Employees could exercise their rights under the labor union contract, which could include a strike or walk-out. In such cases, there are no assurances that we would be able to staff sufficient employees for our short-term needs. Any such labor strike or our inability to negotiate a satisfactory contract upon expiration of the current agreements could have a negative effect on our business and financial results. We make contributions to multiemployer benefit plans on behalf of certain employees covered by collective bargaining agreements and could be responsible for paying unfunded liabilities incurred by such benefit plans, which amount could be material. Economic and demographic trends could materially adversely affect our business. Our business operations are located in North America and tend to be concentrated in large urban areas. Our business could be materially adversely affected to the extent that economic or demographic factors result in the movement of white-collar jobs from urban centers to suburbs or even out of North America; increased office vacancies in urban areas or movement toward home office alternatives; or lower consumer spending or employment levels. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 