ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Part of our strategy involves exploratory drilling, including drilling in new or emerging shale plays using horizontal drilling and completion techniques. The results of our planned exploratory drilling program are subject to more uncertainties than conventional drilling programs in more established formations and may not meet our expectations for reserves or production. The results of our exploratory drilling in new or emerging plays, such as the Haynesville and Eagle Ford Shales, are more uncertain than drilling results in areas that are developed and have established production. Because new or emerging plays and new formations have limited or no production history, we are less able to use past drilling results in those areas to help predict our future drilling results. Further, part of our drilling strategy to maximize recoveries from the Haynesville and Eagle Ford Shales involves the drilling of horizontal wells using completion techniques that have proven to be successful in other shale formations. Our experience with horizontal drilling in these areas to date, as well as the industry’s drilling and production history, is limited. The ultimate success of these drilling and completion strategies and techniques will be better evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are better established. Further, access to adequate gathering systems or pipeline takeaway capacity and the availability of drilling rigs and other services may be more challenging in new or emerging plays. If our drilling results are less than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, access to gathering systems and takeaway capacity or otherwise, and/or natural gas and oil prices decline, the return on our investment in these areas may not be as attractive as we anticipate and we could incur material writedowns of unevaluated properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future. We have substantial indebtedness and may incur substantially more debt. Any failure to meet our debt obligations would adversely affect our business and financial condition. We have incurred substantial debt amounting to approximately $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2008. As a result of our indebtedness, we will need to use a portion of our cash flow to pay interest, which will reduce the amount we will have available to finance our operations and other business activities and could limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Our indebtedness under our Senior Credit Agreement is at a variable interest rate, and so a rise in interest rates will generate greater interest expense to the extent we do not have applicable interest rate fluctuation hedges. The 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements amount of our debt may also cause us to be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. We may incur substantially more debt in the future. The indentures governing our outstanding senior notes contain restrictions on our incurrence of additional indebtedness. These restrictions, however, are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, we could incur substantial additional indebtedness in compliance with these restrictions. Moreover, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness under the indentures. To the extent we incur additional indebtedness, other than under our Senior Credit Agreement, our borrowing base under our Senior Credit Agreement will be reduced by $0.25 for each additional dollar of new debt. On January 27, 2009, we completed a private placement of an aggregate principal amount of $600 million 10.5% senior notes due August 1, 2014. As a result of the offering, our borrowing base was decreased from $1.1 billion to $950 million. Our borrowing base is subject to semi-annual redeterminations and may also be redetermined periodically at the discretion of the banks. Our borrowing base is determined by the banks and is dependent upon our proved developed reserves and the outlook for oil and natural gas prices. If our borrowing base were reduced below the amount of outstanding borrowings, we would be required to repay the excess borrowings promptly. During the first quarter of 2009, we initiated a borrowing base redetermination of our Senior Credit Agreement. Our borrowing base of $950 million, along with our existing terms and pricing, were reaffirmed. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and other expenses will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors, many of which we are unable to control. If our cash flow is not sufficient to service our debt, we may be required to refinance debt, sell assets or sell additional shares of common stock on terms that we may not find attractive if it may be done at all. Further, our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants relating to our indebtedness could result in a default under that indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to drill wells on a substantial portion of our potential resource play locations. We may not be able to drill on a substantial portion of our potential resource play locations for various reasons. We may not generate or be able to raise sufficient capital to do so. Further deterioration in commodities pricing may also make drilling some resource play acreage uneconomic. Our actual drilling activities and future drilling budget will depend on drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, regulatory approvals and other factors. In addition, any drilling activities we are able to conduct on these potential locations may not be successful or result in our ability to add additional proved reserves to our overall proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage. As of December 31, 2008, we own leasehold interests in approximately 300,000 net acres in areas we believe are prospective for the Haynesville Shale. A large portion of the acreage is not currently held by production. Unless production in paying quantities is established on units containing these leases during their terms, these leases will expire. If our leases expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. Our drilling plans for these areas are subject to change based upon various factors, including factors that are beyond our control, including drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, and regulatory approvals. Further, some of this acreage is located in sections where we 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements do not hold the majority of the acreage and therefore it is likely that we will not be named operator of these sections. As a non-operating leaseholder we have less control over the timing of drilling and there is therefore additional risk of expirations occurring in sections where we are not the operator. Increased drilling in the Haynesville Shale formation may cause pipeline and gathering system capacity constraints that may limit our ability to sell natural gas and/or receive market prices for our gas. The Haynesville Shale wells we have drilled to date in and around our core area have reported very high initial production rates, implying potentially large reserves. If drilling in the Haynesville Shale continues to be successful, the amount of gas being produced in the area from these new wells, as well as gas produced from other existing wells, will exceed the capacity of the various gathering and intrastate or interstate transportation pipelines currently available. If this occurs it will be necessary for new interstate and intrastate pipelines and gathering systems to be built. Because of the current economic climate, certain pipeline projects that are planned for the Haynesville Shale area may not occur because the prospective owners of these pipelines may be unable to secure the necessary financing. In addition, capital constraints could limit our ability to build intrastate gathering systems necessary to transport our gas to interstate pipelines. In such event, this could result in wells being shut-in awaiting a pipeline connection or capacity and/or gas being sold at much lower prices than those quoted on NYMEX or than we currently project, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We may have difficulty financing our planned capital expenditures which could adversely affect our growth. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, substantial capital expenditure and working capital needs, primarily as a result of our drilling program, particularly in the Haynesville Shale. We intend to continue to selectively increase our acreage position in the Haynesville Shale, which would require additional capital in addition to the capital necessary to drill on our existing acreage. We expect to use borrowings under our Senior Credit Agreement and proceeds from future capital offerings, if necessary, to fund capital expenditures that are in excess of our cash flow and cash on hand. Our Senior Credit Agreement limits our borrowings to the lesser of the borrowing base and the total commitments. Our borrowing base is currently $950 million. The borrowing base is determined semi-annually, and may also be redetermined periodically at the discretion of the banks. Lower oil and natural gas prices may result in a reduction in our borrowing base at the next redetermination. During the first quarter of 2009, we initiated a borrowing base redetermination of our Senior Credit Agreement. Our borrowing base of $950 million, along with our existing terms and pricing, were reaffirmed. A reduction in our borrowing base could require us to repay any indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base. Additionally, the indentures governing our senior unsecured debt contain covenants limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, including borrowings under our Senior Credit Agreement, unless we meet one of two alternative tests. The first test applies to all indebtedness and requires that after giving effect to the incurrence of additional debt the ratio of our adjusted consolidated EBITDA (as defined in our indentures) to our adjusted consolidated interest expense over the trailing four fiscal quarters will be at least 2.5 to 1.0. The second test applies only to borrowings under our Senior Credit Agreement that do not meet the first test and it limits these borrowings to the greater of a fixed sum (the most restrictive indenture limit being $100 million) and a percentage (the most restrictive indenture limit being 20%) of our adjusted consolidated net tangible assets (as defined in all of our indentures), which is determined using discounted future net revenues from proved natural gas and oil reserves as of the end of each year. Currently, we are permitted to incur additional indebtedness under these incurrence tests, but may be limited in the future. Lower natural gas and oil prices in the future could reduce our adjusted consolidated EBITDA, as well as our adjusted consolidated net tangible assets, and thus could reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Additionally, our ability to complete future equity offerings is limited by the availability of authorized common stock under our certificate of incorporation and by general market conditions. If we are not able to 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements borrow sufficient amounts under our Senior Credit Agreement and/or are unable to raise sufficient capital to fund our capital expenditures, we may be required to curtail our drilling, development, land acquisition and other activities, which could result in forfeiture of leasehold interests if we are unable or unwilling to renew them, and we could be forced to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results and future operations. The current financial crisis and recession has negatively impacted the prices for our oil and natural gas production, limited access to the credit and equity markets, increased the cost of capital, and may have other negative consequences that we cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system and economic recession in the United States create financial challenges that will grow if conditions do not improve. In response to these crises and declining oil and natural gas prices, we have reduced and refocused our 2009 capital budget. Although we believe our operating and capital budget for 2009 can be funded with internally generated cash flow and existing financial resources, our cash flow from operations, borrowings under our Senior Credit Agreement and cash on hand historically have not been sufficient to fund all of our expenditures, and we have relied on the capital markets and sales of non-core assets to provide us with additional capital. Our ability to access the capital markets has been restricted as a result of these crises and may continue to be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital. If our cash flow from operations is less than anticipated and our access to capital is restricted, we may be required to further reduce our operating and capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our results and future operations. The financial crisis may also limit the number of participants or reduce the values we are able to realize in asset sales or other transactions we may engage in to raise capital, thus making these transactions more difficult to consummate and less economic. Additionally, the current economic situation has affected the demand for natural gas and oil and has resulted in lower prices for oil and natural gas, which could have a negative impact on our revenues. Lower prices and could also adversely affect the collectibility of our trade receivables and cause our commodity hedging arrangements to be ineffective if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and low prices could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our revenues, profitability and future growth and the carrying value of our properties depend substantially on prevailing oil and natural gas prices. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The amount we will be able to borrow under our Senior Credit Agreement will be subject to periodic redetermination based in part on current oil and natural gas prices and on changing expectations of future prices. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can economically produce and have an adverse effect on the value of our properties. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Among the factors that can cause volatility are: • the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other producing countries to agree upon and maintain oil prices and production levels; • political instability, armed conflict or terrorist attacks, whether or not in oil or natural gas producing regions; • the level of consumer product demand; • the growth of consumer product demand in emerging markets, such as China; • labor unrest in oil and natural gas producing regions; • weather conditions, including hurricanes and other natural occurrences that affect the supply and/or demand of oil and natural gas; 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the price of foreign imports; • worldwide economic conditions; and • the availability of liquid natural gas imports. These external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to estimate future prices of oil and natural gas. Unless we replace our reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In general, the volume of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. Our reserves will decline as they are produced unless we acquire properties with proved reserves or conduct successful development and exploration activities. Thus, our future oil and natural gas production and, therefore, our cash flow and income are highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. However, we cannot assure you that our future acquisition, development and exploration activities will result in any specific amount of additional proved reserves or that we will be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of a number of factors. These factors include recoverable reserves, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities, title issues and other factors. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with such assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe is thorough. However, there is no assurance that such a review will reveal all existing or potential problems or allow us to fully assess the deficiencies and capabilities of such properties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire properties at acceptable prices because the competition for producing oil and natural gas properties is intense and many of our competitors have financial and other resources that are substantially greater than those available to us. Estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves are uncertain and any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates will materially affect the quantities and the value of our reserves. This report on Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and the value of our reserves. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. At December 31, 2008, approximately 44% of our estimated reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. Estimates of proved undeveloped reserves are less certain than estimates of proved developed reserves. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data assumes that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop our reserves. Although we have prepared estimates of these oil and natural gas reserves and the costs associated with 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements development of these reserves in accordance with SEC regulations, actual capital expenditures will likely vary from estimated capital expenditures, development may not occur as scheduled and actual results may not be as estimated. We depend substantially on the continued presence of key personnel for critical management decisions and industry contacts. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and key employees, particularly with respect to providing the critical management decisions and contacts necessary to manage and maintain growth within a highly competitive industry. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense, particularly in the oil and natural gas industry, and there are a limited number of people with the requisite knowledge and experience. Under these conditions, we could be unable to attract and retain these personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our business is highly competitive. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive in many respects, including identification of attractive oil and natural gas properties for acquisition, drilling and development, securing financing for such activities and obtaining the necessary equipment and personnel to conduct such operations and activities. In seeking suitable opportunities, we compete with a number of other companies, including large oil and natural gas companies and other independent operators with greater financial resources, larger numbers of personnel and facilities, and, in some cases, with more expertise. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with these entities. Our oil and natural gas activities are subject to various risks which are beyond our control. Our operations are subject to many risks and hazards incident to exploring and drilling for, producing, transporting, marketing and selling oil and natural gas. Although we may take precautionary measures, many of these risks and hazards are beyond our control and unavoidable under the circumstances. Many of these risks or hazards could materially and adversely affect our revenues and expenses, the ability of certain of our wells to produce oil and natural gas in commercial quantities, the rate of production and the economics of the development of, and our investment in the prospects in which we have or will acquire an interest. Any of these risks and hazards could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such risks and hazards include: • human error, accidents, labor force and other factors beyond our control that may cause personal injuries or death to persons and destruction or damage to equipment and facilities; • blowouts, fires, hurricanes, pollution and equipment failures that may result in damage to or destruction of wells, producing formations, production facilities and equipment; • unavailability of materials and equipment; • engineering and construction delays; • unanticipated transportation costs and delays; • unfavorable weather conditions; • hazards resulting from unusual or unexpected geological or environmental conditions; • environmental regulations and requirements; • accidental leakage of toxic or hazardous materials, such as petroleum liquids or drilling fluids, into the environment; • hazards resulting from the presence of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) in gas we produce; 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • changes in laws and regulations, including laws and regulations applicable to oil and natural gas activities or markets for the oil and natural gas produced; • fluctuations in supply and demand for oil and natural gas causing variations of the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production; and • the availability of alternative fuels and the price at which they become available. As a result of these risks, expenditures, quantities and rates of production, revenues and operating costs may be materially adversely affected and may differ materially from those anticipated by us. Governmental and environmental regulations could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations on taxation, the exploration for and development, production and marketing of oil and natural gas and safety matters. Many laws and regulations require drilling permits and govern the spacing of wells, rates of production, prevention of waste, unitization and pooling of properties and other matters. These laws and regulations have increased the costs of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating and abandoning our oil and natural gas wells and other facilities. In addition, these laws and regulations, and any others that are passed by the jurisdictions where we have production, could limit the total number of wells drilled or the allowable production from successful wells, which could limit our revenues. Our operations are also subject to complex environmental laws and regulations adopted by the various jurisdictions in which we have or expect to have oil and natural gas operations. We could incur liability to governments or third parties for any unlawful discharge of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water, including responsibility for remedial costs. We could potentially discharge these materials into the environment in any of the following ways: • from a well or drilling equipment at a drill site; • from gathering systems, pipelines, transportation facilities and storage tanks; • damage to oil and natural gas wells resulting from accidents during normal operations; and • blowouts, hurricanes, cratering and explosions. Because the requirements imposed by laws and regulations are frequently changed, we cannot assure you that laws and regulations enacted in the future, including changes to existing laws and regulations, will not adversely affect our business. In addition, because we acquire interests in properties that have been operated in the past by others, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by the former operators. We cannot be certain that the insurance coverage maintained by us will be adequate to cover all losses that may be sustained in connection with all oil and natural gas activities. We maintain general and excess liability policies, which we consider to be reasonable and consistent with industry standards. These policies generally cover: • personal injury; • bodily injury; • third party property damage; • medical expenses; • legal defense costs; • pollution in some cases; • well blowouts in some cases; and • workers compensation. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements As is common in the oil and natural gas industry, we will not insure fully against all risks associated with our business either because such insurance is not available or because we believe the premium costs are prohibitive. A loss not fully covered by insurance could have a materially adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the insurance coverage that we maintain will be sufficient to cover every claim made against us in the future. A loss in connection with our oil and natural gas properties could have a materially adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations to the extent that the insurance coverage provided under our policies cover only a portion of any such loss. Title to the properties in which we have an interest may be impaired by title defects. We generally obtain title opinions on significant properties that we drill or acquire. However, there is no assurance that we will not suffer a monetary loss from title defects or title failure. Additionally, undeveloped acreage has greater risk of title defects than developed acreage. Generally, under the terms of the operating agreements affecting our properties, any monetary loss is to be borne by all parties to any such agreement in proportion to their interests in such property. If there are any title defects or defects in assignment of leasehold rights in properties in which we hold an interest, we will suffer a financial loss. Assets we acquire may prove to be worth less than we paid because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our recent growth is due significantly to acquisitions of exploration and production companies, producing properties and undeveloped and unevaluated leaseholds. We expect acquisitions may also contribute to our future growth. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil and natural gas prices, operating and capital costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform a review of the acquired properties which we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not inspect every well. Even when we inspect a well, we do not always discover structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise. We are generally not entitled to contractual indemnification for preclosing liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Normally, we acquire interests in properties on an “as is” basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to acquire oil and natural gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or be able to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms. Our exploration and development drilling efforts and the operation of our wells may not be profitable or achieve our targeted returns. We require significant amounts of undeveloped leasehold acreage in order to further our development efforts. Exploration, development, drilling and production activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that commercially productive reservoirs will not be discovered. We invest in property, including undeveloped leasehold acreage, which we believe will result in projects that will add value over time. However, we cannot guarantee that all of our prospects will result in viable projects or that we will not abandon our initial investments. Additionally, we cannot guarantee that the leasehold acreage we acquire will be profitably developed, that new wells drilled by us will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such leasehold acreage or wells. Drilling for oil and natural gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit after deducting operating and other costs. In addition, wells that are profitable may not achieve our targeted rate of return. Our ability to achieve our target results are dependent upon the current and future market prices for oil and natural gas, costs associated with producing oil and natural gas and our ability to add reserves at an acceptable cost. We rely to a significant extent on 3-D seismic data and other advanced technologies in identifying leasehold acreage prospects and in conducting our exploration activities. The 3-D seismic data and 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to our acquisition of leasehold acreage or drilling a well whether oil or natural gas is present or may be produced economically. The use of 3-D seismic data and other technologies also requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies. In addition, we may not be successful in controlling and reducing our drilling and production costs in order to improve our overall return. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. We cannot predict the cost of drilling, and we may be forced to limit, delay or cancel drilling operations as a result of a variety of factors, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment; • adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes; and • compliance with governmental requirements. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling rig crews rise as the number of active rigs in service increases. Increasing levels of exploration and production in response to strong prices of oil and natural gas, may increase the demand for oilfield services, and the costs of these services may increase, while the quality of these services may suffer. If the unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel were particularly severe in Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas and Louisiana, we could be materially and adversely affected because our operations and properties are concentrated in those areas. In order to secure drilling rigs in these areas, we have entered into certain contracts with drilling companies that extend over several years. If demand for drilling rigs subsides during the period covered by these contracts, the price we are required to pay may be significantly more than the market rate for similar services. We depend on the skill, ability and decisions of third party operators to a significant extent. The success of the drilling, development and production of the oil and natural gas properties in which we have or expect to have a non-operating working interest is substantially dependent upon the decisions of such third-party operators and their diligence to comply with various laws, rules and regulations affecting such properties. The failure of any third-party operator to make decisions, perform their services, discharge their obligations, deal with regulatory agencies, and comply with laws, rules and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations in a proper manner with respect to properties in which we have an interest could result in material adverse consequences to our interest in such properties, including substantial penalties and compliance costs. Such adverse consequences could result in substantial liabilities to us or reduce the value of our properties, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of non-cash goodwill impairments. In conjunction with the recording of the purchase price allocation for several of our acquisitions including KCS Energy, Inc., we recorded goodwill which represents the excess of the purchase price paid by us for those companies plus liabilities assumed, including deferred taxes recorded in connection with the respective acquisitions, over the estimated fair market value of the tangible net assets acquired. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of the assets acquired net of the fair value of liabilities assumed in an acquisition. SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142) requires that intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, be evaluated on an annual basis for impairment or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that could potentially result in impairment. We completed our annual goodwill impairment test during the third quarters of 2008, 2007 and 2006 and no goodwill impairments were deemed necessary. The goodwill impairment test requires the allocation of goodwill and all other assets and liabilities to reporting units. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the book value (including goodwill), then goodwill is reduced to its implied fair value and the amount of the writedown is charged against earnings. The assumptions we used in calculating our reporting unit fair value at the time of the test include our market capitalization and discounted future cash flows based on estimated reserves and production, future costs and future oil and natural gas prices. At December 31, 2008, we recorded a full cost ceiling impairment of approximately $1.0 billion. The full cost ceiling calculation dictates that prices and costs in effect as of the last day of the quarter are held constant. As a result of the full cost ceiling impairment, we reviewed our goodwill for impairment as of December 31, 2008. Based on that review, no goodwill impairment was deemed necessary. Future adverse changes to any of these factors could lead to an impairment of all or a portion of our goodwill in future periods which could significantly reduce earnings during the period in which the impairment occurs, and would result in a corresponding reduction to goodwill and stockholders’ equity. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas production, we have entered into oil and natural gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our anticipated production and we may enter into additional hedging transactions in the future. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile oil and natural gas prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • our production is less than expected; • there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; or • the counterparties to our hedging agreements fail to perform under the contracts. The current economic crisis may have a negative impact on the liquidity of the counterparties to our hedging arrangements, which increases the risk of those counterparties failing to perform under those agreements. If those parties do fail to perform, we will be exposed to the price risks we had sought to mitigate and our operating results, financial position and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. We may be required to take non-cash asset writedowns if oil and natural gas prices decline. We may be required under full cost accounting rules to writedown the carrying value of oil and natural gas properties if oil and natural gas prices decline or if there are substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of development costs or deterioration in our exploration results. We utilize the full cost method of accounting for oil and natural gas exploration and development activities. Under full cost accounting, we are required by SEC regulations to perform a ceiling test each quarter. The ceiling test is an impairment test and generally establishes a maximum, or “ceiling,” of the book value of oil and natural gas properties that is equal to the expected after tax present value (discounted at 10%) of the future net cash flows from proved reserves, including the effect of cash flow hedges when hedge accounting is applied, calculated 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements using prevailing oil and natural gas prices on the last day of the period or a subsequent higher price under certain limited circumstances. If the net book value of oil and natural gas properties (reduced by any related net deferred income tax liability and asset retirement obligation) exceeds the ceiling limitation, SEC regulations require us to impair or “writedown” the book value of our oil and natural gas properties. Costs associated with unevaluated properties, which were $2.3 billion at December 31, 2008, are not initially subject to the ceiling test limitation. Rather, we assess all items classified as unevaluated property on a quarterly basis for possible impairment or reduction in value based upon our intentions with respect to drilling on such properties, the remaining lease term, geological and geophysical evaluations, drilling results, the assignment of proved reserves, and the economic viability of development if proved reserves are assigned. These factors are significantly influenced by our expectations regarding future commodity prices, development costs, and access to capital at acceptable cost. During any period in which these factors indicate an impairment, the cumulative drilling costs incurred to date for such property and all or a portion of the associated leasehold costs are transferred to the full cost pool and are then subject to amortization and the ceiling test limitation. Accordingly, a significant change in these factors, many of which are beyond our control, may shift a significant amount of cost from unevaluated properties into the full cost pool that is subject to amortization and the ceiling test limitation. As of December 31, 2008, using the West Texas Intermediate posted price of $41.00 per Bbl for oil and the Henry Hub spot market price of $5.71 per MMbtu for natural gas, we recorded a pre-tax non-cash impairment charge of $1.0 billion as a result of full cost ceiling limitations. As ceiling test computations depend upon the prevailing oil and natural gas prices, as of a fixed date, it is impossible to predict the likelihood, timing and magnitude of any future impairments. Depending on the magnitude, a ceiling test writedown could negatively affect our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 