Item 1A. Risk Factors Described below are various risks and uncertainties that may affect our business. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. You should recognize that other significant risks and uncertainties may arise in the future, which we cannot foresee at this time. Also, the risks that we now foresee might affect us to a greater or different degree than expected. Certain risks and uncertainties, including ones that we currently deem immaterial or that are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also affect our business. If any of the risks described below actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred losses since inception and we may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. Product revenue for products which we license out is dependent upon the commercialization efforts of our partners, including the sales and marketing efforts of AstraZeneca and Horizon relating to VIMOVO. We have incurred significant losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2014, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $96.9 million. Our ability to receive product revenue from the sale of products is dependent on a number of factors, principally the development, regulatory approval and successful commercialization of our product candidates. We expect that the amount of our operating losses will fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter principally as a result of increases and decreases in our development efforts and the timing and amount of payments that we may receive from others. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses associated with our research and development efforts and do not know the amount or timing of product revenue we will receive as a result of sales of VIMOVO by AstraZeneca and Horizon or our other product candidates, including PA, by other commercial partners, if any. If our licensed products do not perform well in the marketplace our royalty revenue will impacted and our business could be materially harmed. Our primary current source of revenue is the royalty payments that we may receive pursuant to our collaboration agreement with AstraZeneca. We have received all regulatory milestone payments under our collaboration agreement with AstraZeneca and Horizon. On May 3, 2013, AstraZeneca informed us that, after a strategic business review, it had decided to cease promotion and sampling of VIMOVO by the end of the third quarter of 2013 in certain countries, including the U.S. and all countries in Europe, other than Spain and Portugal, which have pre-existing contractual relationships with third parties. We understand that AstraZeneca will instead now focus on those countries where the product has shown growth and which AstraZeneca believes have the greatest potential for future growth. We will continue to assess the financial impact this decision will have on our royalty revenue. On November 18, 2013, AstraZeneca and Horizon entered into certain agreements in connection with AstraZeneca’s divestiture of all of its rights, title and interest to develop, commercialize and sell VIMOVO in the United States to Horizon. As a result, royalty revenues for sales of VIMOVO in the United States will be received from Horizon. On July 28, 2014, Horizon announced that it had been verbally notified by CVS Caremark and Express Scripts, Inc. that VIMOVO would no longer be on their formularies and will be placed on their exclusion lists effective January 1, 2015. Horizon estimates that approximately 20-30% of VIMOVO prescriptions could be impacted by these decisions. While Horizon believes it has a strategy to mitigate the effect on VIMOVO sales, POZEN’s royalty revenue from Net Sales of VIMOVO beginning in 2015 may be negatively affected. We depend heavily on the success of our product candidates, which may never be approved for commercial use. If we are unable to develop, gain approval of or commercialize those product candidates, we will never receive revenues from the sale of our product candidates. We anticipate that for the foreseeable future our ability to achieve profitability will be dependent on the successful commercialization of VIMOVO, and. if approved, sales of our PA product candidates. If we fail to gain timely approval to commercialize our products from the FDA and other foreign regulatory bodies, we will be unable to generate the revenue we will need to build our business. These approvals may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all, and even if and when they are granted, they may not cover all of the indications for which we seek approval. For example, absent the availability of such a lower dose formulation in the market if PA32540 is approved, the FDA indicated that it may limit the indication for PA32540 to use in post coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG) with a treatment duration not to exceed one year. On April 25, 2014, we received a CRL products because of deficiencies noted during an inspection of a supplier of an active ingredient used in the manufacture of the PA products, which has delayed approval of our NDA. On December 17, 2014, we received a second CRL from the FDA advising that the review of our NDA is completed and questions remain that preclude approval of the NDA in its current form. In this CRL, the FDA used identical wording to that of the first CRL. Satisfactory resolution of these deficiencies is required before this application may be approved. There were no clinical or safety deficiencies noted with respect to either PA32540 and PA8140 and no other deficiencies were noted in the CRL. Final agreement on the draft product labeling is also pending. There can be no assurance that our PA products will be approved by the FDA and, if so approved, for the expected indication. 26 Table of Contents Many factors could negatively affect our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. For example, in October 2008, the FDA informed us that it was conducting an internal review of the acceptability of using endoscopic gastric ulcers as a primary endpoint in clinical trials. Reduction of endoscopic gastric ulcers was the primary endpoint in our Phase 3 trials for VIMOVO and the primary endpoint in the ongoing Phase 3 trials for our PA32540 product. In late January 2009, the FDA informed us that it had completed its internal discussions and that there was no change to previous agreements that gastric ulcer incidence was an acceptable primary endpoint for our clinical programs. The FDA decided to obtain further advice on this issue and held an Advisory Board meeting on November 4, 2010 to discuss the adequacy of endoscopically documented gastric ulcers as an outcome measure to evaluate drugs intended to prevent gastrointestinal complications of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, including aspirin. The Advisory Board voted in favor (8-4) that endoscopically-documented gastric/duodenal ulcers are an adequate primary efficacy endpoint for evaluating products intended to prevent NSAID-associated upper gastrointestinal (UGI) toxicity, which vote supports the clinical design of the pivotal Phase 3 trials conducted for VIMOVO and PA32540. However, there can be no assurance that FDA will continue to accept the recommendation of the Advisory Board or will not decide to reassess the acceptability of this endpoint in the future. In addition to the inability to obtain regulatory approval, many other factors could negatively affect the success of our efforts to develop and commercialize our product candidates, including those discussed in the risk factors that follow as well as negative, inconclusive or otherwise unfavorable results from any studies or clinical trials, such as those that we obtained with respect to MT 500, which led to our decision to discontinue development of that product candidate in 2002. Changes in regulatory approval policy or statutory or regulatory requirements, or in the regulatory environment, during the development period of any of our product candidates may result in delays in the approval, or rejection, of the application for approval of one or more of our product candidates. If we fail to obtain approval, or are delayed in obtaining approval, of our product candidates, our ability to generate revenue will be severely impaired. The process of drug development and regulatory approval for product candidates takes many years, during which time the FDA’s interpretations of the standards against which drugs are judged for approval may evolve or change. The FDA can also change its approval policies based upon changes in laws and regulations. In addition, the FDA can decide, based on its then current approval policies, any changes in those policies and its broad discretion in the approval process, to weigh the benefits and the risks of every drug candidate. As a result of any of the foregoing, the FDA may decide that the data we submit in support of an application for approval of a drug candidate are insufficient for approval. For example, in October 2008, the FDA has informed us that it was conducting an internal review of the acceptability of using endoscopic gastric ulcers as a primary endpoint in clinical trials. Reduction of endoscopic gastric ulcers was the primary endpoint in our Phase 3 trials for VIMOVO (formerly referred to as PN 400) and the primary endpoint in our on-going Phase 3 trials for PA32540. In late January 2009, the FDA informed us that it had completed its internal discussions and that there was no change to previous agreements that gastric ulcer incidence was an acceptable primary endpoint for our clinical programs. The FDA decided to obtain further advice on this issue and held an Advisory Board meeting on November 4, 2010 to discuss the adequacy of endoscopically documented gastric ulcers as an outcome measure to evaluate drugs intended to prevent gastrointestinal complications of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, including aspirin. The Advisory Board voted in favor (8-4) that endoscopically-documented gastric/duodenal ulcers are an adequate primary efficacy endpoint for evaluating products intended to prevent NSAID-associated UGI toxicity, which vote supports the clinical design of the pivotal Phase 3 trials conducted for VIMOVO and PA32540. However, there can be no assurance that FDA will accept the recommendation of the Advisory Board or will not decide to reassess the acceptability of this endpoint in the future. Changes in policy or interpretation may not be the subject of published guidelines and may therefore be difficult to evaluate. For example, in February 2012, the FDA requested we demonstrate the bioequivalence of PA32540 to EC aspirin 325 mg, with respect to acetylsalicylic acid in an additional Phase 1 study. Enteric coated products such as PA32540 and EC aspirin 325 mg have highly variable pharmacokinetics. Based on our analyses, we believed that the results demonstrated bioequivalence, but the FDA did not agree. However, the FDA did agree that the results from this Phase 1 study, together with additional information that was submitted by us in the NDA for the product, constitutes sufficient data to support the establishment of a clinical and pharmacological bridge between the product and EC aspirin 325 mg. There can be no assurance that our PA products will be approved by the FDA and, if so approved, for the expected indications. As another example, the FDA has not recently published guidelines for the approval of new migraine therapies, and we have had to rely on periodic guidance from the FDA obtained (in conversations) informally and in other meetings, the content of which may be subject to significant modification over the period of a drug’s development program. There is also the risk that we and the FDA may interpret such guidance differently. The FDA has recently made several changes to the omeprazole label that relate, in part, to the agency’s concern regarding certain reported adverse events in patients taking long term PPI such as omeprazole. For example, with VIMOVO, in Dosage and Administration, the label states to use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. There is a risk that further omeprazole safety issue may arise in the future that could impact FDA’s benefit/risk assessment of the dose or duration of PPI in subjects requiring long-term PPI use. 27 Table of Contents Further, additional information about the potential risks of marketed drugs may affect the regulatory approval environment, or the FDA’s approval policies, for new product candidates. For example, in February 2005 an advisory committee convened by the FDA met to address the potential cardiovascular risks of COX-2 selective NSAIDs and related drugs in response to disclosures made about possible adverse effects from the use of some of these drugs. On April 7, 2005, the FDA issued a Public Health Advisory, or the Advisory, based, in part, upon the recommendations of the advisory committee. The Advisory stated that it would require that manufacturers of all prescription products containing NSAIDs provide warnings regarding the potential for adverse cardiovascular events as well as life-threatening gastrointestinal events associated with the use of NSAIDs. Moreover, subsequent to the FDA advisory committee meeting in February 2005, the FDA has indicated that long-term studies evaluating cardiovascular risk will be required for approval of new NSAID products that may be used on an intermittent or chronic basis. Long-term cardiovascular safety studies were not required at for FDA approval of our VIMOVO. However, we cannot guarantee that such studies will not be required in the future if new information about naproxen safety concerns becomes available. We will continue to evaluate and review with the FDA its expectations and recommendations regarding the efficacy and safety requirements and study design necessary to support approval of NDAs for product candidates we may develop that contain NSAIDs. If we, or our current or future collaborators, do not obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals for one or more of our product candidates, we will be unable to commercialize those product candidates. Further, if we are delayed in obtaining or unable to obtain, any required approvals, or our contract manufacturers are unable to manufacture and supply product for sale, our collaborators may terminate, or be entitled to terminate, their agreements with us or reduce or eliminate their payments to us under these agreements or we may be required to pay termination payments under these agreements. Our product candidates under development are subject to extensive domestic and foreign regulation. The FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertisement, promotion, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products in the U.S. In order to market our products abroad, we must comply with extensive regulation by foreign governments. If we are unable to obtain and maintain FDA and foreign government approvals for our product candidates, we, alone or through our collaborators, will not be permitted to sell them. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate will prevent us from commercializing that product candidate. Except for Treximet, which was approved for commercial sale in the U.S. on April 15, 2008, and VIMOVO, which was approved for commercial sale in the U.S. on April 30, 2010 and has been approved in a number of additional countries in the rest of the world, none of our other product candidates are approved for sale in the U.S. or any foreign market and they may never be approved. For example, we received two approvable letters relating to our NDA for Treximet which communicated the FDA’s concerns that delayed marketing approval. An approvable letter, now called a Complete Response Letter, or CRL, is an official notification from the FDA that contains conditions that must be satisfied prior to obtaining final U.S. marketing approval. In June 2006, we received the first approvable letter in which the FDA requested additional safety information on Treximet, and in August 2007, we received a second approvable letter in which the FDA requested that we address their concern about the potential implications from one preclinical in vitro chromosomal aberration study in which a signal for genotoxicity was seen for the combination of naproxen sodium and sumatriptan. We have also previously received not-approvable letters from the FDA relating to our NDAs for MT 100 and MT 300. On April 25, 2014, we received a CRL advising that the review of our NDA is completed and questions remain that preclude the approval of the NDA for our PA32540 and PA8140 product candidates. Specifically, an inspection of the manufacturing facility of an active ingredient supplier of ours concluded with certain inspection deficiencies. On December 17, 2014, we received a second CRL from the FDA advising that the review of our NDA is completed and questions remain that preclude approval of the NDA in its current form. Satisfactory resolution of these deficiencies is required before this application may be approved. In the U.S., an NDA or supplement must be filed with respect to each indication for which marketing approval of a product is sought. Each NDA, in turn, requires the successful completion of preclinical, toxicology, genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies, as well as clinical trials demonstrating the safety and efficacy of the product for that particular indication. We may not receive regulatory approval of any of the NDAs that we file with the FDA or of any approval applications we may seek in the future outside the U.S. 28 Table of Contents Further, our current or future collaboration agreements may terminate, or require us to make certain payments to our collaborators, or our collaborators may have the right to terminate their agreements with us or reduce or eliminate their payments to us under these agreements, based on our inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining, regulatory approval for our product candidates or our contract manufacturers’ inability to manufacture our products or to supply the sufficient quantities of our products to meet market demand. For example, under our PN collaboration agreement with AstraZeneca, AstraZeneca had the right to terminate the agreement if certain delays occurred or specified development and regulatory objectives were not met. For example, this termination right could have been triggered by AstraZeneca if the FDA had determined that endoscopic gastric ulcers were no longer an acceptable endpoint and we had been required to conduct additional trials which would have delayed NDA approval for VIMOVO. Both AstraZeneca, Horizon and Pernix have the right to terminate their respective agreements with us upon a 90 day notice for any reason. Further, if we or our contract manufacturers do not maintain required regulatory approvals, or our contract manufacturers are unable to manufacture our product or to supply sufficient quantities of our products to meet market demand, we may not be able to commercialize our products. Approval of a product candidate may be conditioned upon certain limitations and restrictions as to the drug’s use, such as possible a warning which the FDA may require in the PA32540 label regarding the concomitant use of PA32540 and Plavix, or upon the conduct of further studies, and is subject to continuous review. The FDA has indicated that, absent the availability of such a lower dose formulation in the market if PA32540 is approved, that it may limit the indication for PA32540 to use in post coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG) with a treatment duration not to exceed one year. We believe that the FDA is concerned that without a formulation containing a lower dose of aspirin, physicians will not have a full range of dosing options available to prescribe in accordance with current cardiovascular treatment guidelines, which recommend doses of 81 mgs or 162 mgs of aspirin for most indications and we followed the FDA’s suggestion to seek approval for a lower dose formulation of the product containing 81 mg of enteric coated aspirin as part of our NDA for PA32540. However, there can be no assurance that the FDA will approve a lower dose formulation of the product or will allow a broader indication for PA32540. There can be no assurance that our PA products will be approved by the FDA and, if so approved, for the expected indications. The FDA may also require us to conduct additional post-approval studies. These post-approval studies may include carcinogenicity studies in animals or further human clinical trials. The later discovery of previously unknown problems with the product, manufacturer or manufacturing facility may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, or total or partial suspension of production, as well as other regulatory action against our product candidates or us. If approvals are withdrawn for a product, or if a product is seized or recalled, we would be unable to sell that product and therefore would not receive any revenues from that product. We and our contract manufacturers are required to comply with the applicable FDA current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, regulations, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Further, manufacturing facilities must be approved by the FDA before they can be used to manufacture our product candidates, and are subject to additional FDA inspection. On April 25, 2014, we announced that we had received a CRL from the FDA with respect to the NDA for our PA32540 and PA8140 product candidates. In the CRL, the FDA noted that, during an inspection of the manufacturing facility of an active ingredient supplier, inspection deficiencies were found. Satisfactory resolution of deficiencies noted by the field investigator is required before the NDA may be approved. On May 9, 2014, our active ingredient supplier submitted a response to the FDA addressing the inspection deficiencies and subsequently submitted an update to its initial response. On December 17, 2014, we received a second CRL from the FDA advising that the review of our NDA is completed and questions remain that preclude approval of the NDA in its current form. In this CRL, the FDA used identical wording to that of the first CRL. Satisfactory resolution of these deficiencies is required before this application may be approved. There were no clinical or safety deficiencies noted with respect to either PA32540 and PA8140 and no other deficiencies were noted in the CRL. We cannot guarantee that the FDA will consider any future actions taken by the active ingredient supplier to be sufficient to address the inspection deficiencies. Manufacturing facilities may also be subject to state regulations. We, or our third-party manufacturers, may not be able to comply with cGMP regulations or other FDA regulatory requirements, or applicable state regulations, or may not be able to successfully manufacture our products which could result in a delay or an inability to manufacture the products. If we or our partners wish or need to identify an alternative manufacturer, delays in obtaining FDA approval of the alternative manufacturing facility could cause an interruption in the supply of our products. Labeling and promotional activities are subject to scrutiny by the FDA and state regulatory agencies and, in some circumstances, the Federal Trade Commission. FDA enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of unapproved products as well as the marketing of approved products for unapproved, or off-label, uses. These regulations and the FDA’s interpretation of them may limit our or our partners’ ability to market products for which we gain approval. Failure to comply with these requirements can result in federal and state regulatory enforcement action. Further, we may not obtain the labeling claims we or our partners believe are necessary or desirable for the promotion of our product candidate. As part of the CRLs received in connection with our PA32540 and PA8140 products, FDA indicated that the final agreement on draft product labeling remains pending. 29 Table of Contents If third parties challenge the validity of the patents or proprietary rights of our marketed products or assert that we have infringed their patents or proprietary rights, we may become involved in intellectual property disputes and litigation that would be costly and time consuming and could negatively impact the commercialization of our products that we develop or acquire. We have received a Paragraph IV Notice Letters notifying us of the filing of ANDAs with the FDA for approval to market a generic version of VIMOVO. We previously received Paragraph IV Letters notifying us of the filing of ANDAs with the FDA for approval to market a generic version of Treximet and those cases have been concluded. We filed patent infringement lawsuits in response to these ANDAs that has led and will continue to lead to costly and time consuming patent litigation. The intellectual property rights of pharmaceutical companies, including us, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. Our success in developing and commercializing pharmaceutical products may depend, in part, on our ability to operate without infringing on the intellectual property rights of others and to prevent others from infringing on our intellectual property rights. There has been substantial litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical industry. For example, third parties seeking to market generic versions of branded pharmaceutical products often file ANDAs with the FDA, containing a certification stating that the ANDA applicant believes that the patents protecting the branded pharmaceutical product are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed. Such certifications are commonly referred to as paragraph IV certifications. We, AstraZeneca and Horizon are engaged in Paragraph IV litigation with several generic pharmaceutical companies with respect to patents listed in the Orange Book with respect to VIMOVO currently pending in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey which is described on page [17] of this Form 10-K. Litigation can be time consuming and costly and we cannot predict with certainty the outcome. If we are unsuccessful in any of the above-described proceedings and the FDA approves a generic version of one of our marketed products, such an outcome would have a material adverse effect on sales of such product, our business and our results of operations. Our reliance on collaborations with third parties to develop and commercialize our products is subject to inherent risks and may result in delays in product development and lost or reduced revenues, restricting our ability to commercialize our products and adversely affecting our profitability. With respect to the products we have licensed, we depend upon collaborations with third parties to develop these product candidates and we depend substantially upon third parties to commercialize these products. As a result, our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval of, manufacture and commercialize our existing and possibly future product candidates depends upon our ability to maintain existing, and enter into and maintain new, contractual and collaborative arrangements with others. We also engage, and may in the future to continue to engage, contract manufacturers and clinical trial investigators. In addition, although not a primary component of our current strategy, the identification of new compounds or product candidates for development has led us in the past, and may continue to require us, to enter into license or other collaborative agreements with others, including pharmaceutical companies and research institutions. Such collaborative agreements for the acquisition of new compounds or product candidates would typically require us to pay license fees, make milestone payments and/or pay royalties. Furthermore, these agreements may result in our revenues being lower than if we developed our product candidates ourselves and in our loss of control over the development of our product candidates. Contractors or collaborators may have the right to terminate their agreements with us after a specified notice period for any reason or upon a default by us or reduce their payments to us under those agreements on limited or no notice and for no reason or reasons outside of our control. For example, For example, we had a collaboration agreement with Desitin Arzneimittel GmbH, or “Desitin,” for the development and commercialization of MT 400 for the 27 countries of the European Union, as well as Switzerland and Norway, but on February 27, 2013, we received written notice from Desitin that it was terminating the license agreement due to reimbursement uncertainty for MT 400 in Germany, a major market for Desitin in the territory. We can also mutually agree with our collaborators to terminate the agreements. For example, on November 29, 2014, we executed a termination agreement with Sanofi US terminating the license agreement for PA. As of the termination date, all licenses granted to Sanofi US were terminated and all rights to the products licensed to Sanofi US under the agreement reverted to us. In December 2014, we received a mutual termination letter from Cilag GmbH International (“Cilag”), a division of Johnson & Johnson, terminating our then-current License Agreement with Cilag, for the exclusive development and commercialization of MT 400 in Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru. 30 Table of Contents Collaborators may also decide not to continue marketing our products in certain countries of the territory or to assign their rights under our agreement to third parties. For example, we had a collaboration with GSK for the development and commercialization of certain triptan combinations using our MT 400 technology, including Treximet, in the U.S. and GSK entered into an agreement to divest of all of its rights, title and interest to develop, commercialize and sell the licensed products in the U.S. to Pernix upon closing. In addition, on May 3, 2013, AstraZeneca informed us that, after a strategic business review, it had decided to cease promotion and sampling of VIMOVO by the end of the third quarter of 2013 in certain countries, including the U.S. and all countries in Europe, other than Spain and Portugal, which have pre-existing contractual relationships with third parties. We understood that AstraZeneca would instead focus on those countries where the product has shown growth and which AstraZeneca believed had the greatest potential for future growth. On November 18, 2013, AstraZeneca and Horizon entered into certain agreements in connection with AstraZeneca’s divestiture of all of its rights, title and interest to develop, commercialize and sell VIMOVO in the United States to Horizon. Contractors or collaborators may have the right to reduce their payments to us under those agreements. For example, a Pernix and AstraZeneca and Horizon have the right to reduce the royalties on net sales of products payable to us under their respective agreements if generic competitors enter the market and attain a pre-determined share of the market for products marketed under the agreements, or if they must pay a royalty to one or more third parties for rights it licenses from those third parties to commercialize products marketed under the agreements. AstraZeneca was also entitled to terminate its agreement with us if certain delays occur or specified development or regulatory objectives were not met. This termination could have been triggered by AstraZeneca if in January 2009, the FDA had determined that endoscopic gastric ulcers were no longer an acceptable endpoint and we had been required to conduct additional trials which would have delayed NDA approval for VIMOVO. If our current or future licensees exercise termination rights they may have, or if these license agreements terminate because of delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, or for other reasons, and we are not able to establish replacement or additional research and development collaborations or licensing arrangements, we may not be able to develop and/or commercialize our product candidates. Moreover, any future collaborations or license arrangements we may enter into may not be on terms favorable to us. A further risk we face with our collaborations is that business combinations and changes in the collaborator or their business strategy may adversely affect their willingness or ability to complete their obligations to us. Our current or any future collaborations or license arrangements ultimately may not be successful. Our agreements with collaborators typically allow them discretion in electing whether to pursue various regulatory, commercialization and other activities or with respect to the timing of the development, such as our agreement with GSK, which was assigned to Pernix, under which GSK determined, among other things, the exact formulation and composition of the product candidates using our MT 400 technology for use in the Treximet clinical trials. Similarly, under our agreement with AstraZeneca, AstraZeneca had the right to manufacture clinical trial material itself or through a third party. If any collaborator were to breach its agreement with us or otherwise fail to conduct collaborative activities in a timely or successful manner, the pre-clinical or clinical development or commercialization of the affected product candidate or research program would be delayed or terminated. Any delay or termination of clinical development or commercialization, such as the delay in FDA approval we experienced as a result of approvable letters we received from the FDA in June 2006 and August 2007 related to our Treximet NDA, or a delay in FDA approval of VIMOVO which could have occurred if the FDA determined in January 2009 that endoscopic gastric ulcers were no longer an acceptable primary endpoint in clinical trials and we were required to conduct additional clinical trials for the product, would delay or possibly eliminate our potential product revenues. Further, our collaborators may be able to exercise control, under certain circumstances, over our ability to protect our patent rights under patents covered by the applicable collaboration agreement. For example, under our collaboration agreements with GSK, now assigned to Pernix, Horizon and AstraZeneca, GSK, Hoizon and AstraZeneca each has the first right to enforce our patents under their respective agreements and would have exclusive control over such enforcement litigation. GSK elected not to exercise its first right to prosecute infringement suits against Par, Alphapharm, Teva, Dr. Reddy’s , and Sun, each of which submitted ANDAs to the FDA for approval to market a generic version of Treximet tablets and we filed suit against these companies in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. On the other hand, AstraZeneca has elected to its first right to prosecute infringement suits against Dr. Reddy’s, Lupin, Anchen, Watson and Mylan, each of which submitted an ANDA to the FDA for approval to market a generic version of VIMOVO. We and AstraZeneca filed suit against Dr. Reddy’s, Lupin, Anchen, Watson and Mylan in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. As part of Horizon’s purchase of all of AstraZeneca’s rights, title and interest to develop, commercialize and sell VIMOVO in the United States, Horizon has assumed AstraZeneca’s right to lead the above-described Paragraph IV litigation relating to VIMIVO. Other risks associated with our collaborative and contractual arrangements with others include the following: ● we may not have day-to-day control over the activities of our contractors or collaborators; ● our collaborators may fail to defend or enforce patents they own on compounds or technologies that are incorporated into the products we develop with them; 31 Table of Contents ● third parties may not fulfill their regulatory or other obligations; ● we may not realize the contemplated or expected benefits from collaborative or other arrangements; and ● disagreements may arise regarding a breach of the arrangement, the interpretation of the agreement, ownership of proprietary rights, clinical results or regulatory approvals. These factors could lead to delays in the development of our product candidates and/or the commercialization of our products or reduction in the milestone payments we receive from our collaborators, or could result in our not being able to commercialize our products. Further, disagreements with our contractors or collaborators could require or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time-consuming and expensive. Our ultimate success may depend upon the success and performance on the part of these third parties. If we fail to maintain these relationships or establish new relationships as required, development of our product candidates and/or the commercialization of our products will be delayed or may never be realized. A collaborator may withdraw support or cease to perform work on our product candidates if the collaborator determines to develop its own competing product candidate or other product candidates instead. We have entered into collaboration and license agreements, and may continue to enter into such agreements, with companies that have products and are developing new product candidates that compete or may compete with our product candidates or which have greater commercial potential. If one of our collaborators should decide that the product or a product candidate that the collaborator is developing would be more profitable for the collaborator than our product candidate covered by the collaboration or license agreement, the collaborator may withdraw support for our product candidate or may cease to perform under our agreement. On May 3, 2013, AstraZeneca informed us that, after a strategic business review, it had decided to cease promotion and sampling of VIMOVO by the end of the third quarter of 2013 in certain countries, including the U.S. and all countries in Europe, other than Spain and Portugal, which have pre-existing contractual relationships with third parties. We understood that AstraZeneca would instead focus on those countries where the product had shown growth and which AstraZeneca believed had the greatest potential for future growth. On November 18, 2013, AstraZeneca and Horizon entered into certain agreements in connection with AstraZeneca’s divestiture of all of its rights, title and interest to develop, commercialize and sell VIMOVO in the United States to Horizon. In addition, GSK divested of all of its rights, title and interest to develop, commercialize and sell MT 400 products, including Treximet, in the U.S. to Pernix on August 20, 2014. In the event of a termination of the collaborator’s agreement upon such cessation of performance, we would need to negotiate an agreement with another collaborator in order to continue the development and commercialization efforts for the product candidate. If we were unsuccessful in negotiating another agreement, we might have to cease development activities of the particular product candidate. For example, our development and commercialization agreements with Horizon and AstraZeneca are subject to this risk. Under the terms of our agreement with AstraZeneca and Horizon, either party has the right to terminate the agreement by notice in writing to the other party upon or after any material breach of the agreement by the other party, if the other party has not cured the breach within 90 days after written notice to cure has been given, with certain exceptions. The parties also can terminate the agreement for cause under certain defined conditions. In addition, AstraZeneca can terminate the agreement, at any time, at will, for any reason or no reason, in its entirety or with respect to countries outside the U.S., upon 90 days’ notice. If terminated at will, AstraZeneca will owe us a specified termination payment or, if termination occurs after the product is launched, AstraZeneca may, at its option, under and subject to the satisfaction of conditions specified in the agreement, elect to transfer the product and all rights to us. However, under the circumstance above, or similar circumstance, we may need to enter into a new development and commercialization agreement and may need to start the development process all over again. If we were able to negotiate a new development and commercialization agreement to develop our technology, which is not certain, or if we decide to commercialize the products previously partnered by ourselves, we would face delays and redundant expenses in that development. We need to maintain current agreements and enter into additional agreements with third parties that possess sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or establish internally the capability to perform these functions, in order to successfully market and sell our future drug products. We have no sales or distribution personnel or capabilities at the present time. If we are unable to maintain current collaborations or enter into additional collaborations with established pharmaceutical or pharmaceutical services companies to provide those capabilities, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our products. To the extent that we enter into marketing and sales agreements with third parties, such as our agreement with Horizon to sell VIMOVO in the United States and AstraZeneca to sell VIMOVO outside the United States, our revenues, if any, will be affected by the sales and marketing efforts of those third parties. If our licensed products do not perform well in the marketplace our royalty revenue will impacted and our business could be materially harmed. For example, on July 28, 2014, Horizon announced that it had been verbally notified by CVS Caremark and Express Scripts, Inc. that VIMOVO would no longer be on their formularies and will be placed on their exclusion lists effective January 1, 2015. We have been notified that Horizon estimates that approximately 20-30% of VIMOVO prescriptions could be impacted by these decisions. While Horizon believes it has a strategy to mitigate the effect on VIMOVO sales, POZEN’s royalty revenue from Net Sales of VIMOVO beginning in 2015 may be negatively affected. 32 Table of Contents We refined our strategy and decided to retain control of our PA product candidates for cardiovascular indications through the clinical development and pre-commercialization stage. To that end, our chief commercial officer evaluated the commercial opportunities for these product candidates and developed a worldwide commercial strategy, which included developing certain internal commercialization capabilities to enable us to conduct pre-commercialization activities prior to licensing our PA product candidates to commercial partners. We are currently evaluating all strategic options available to us now that we have full ownership of the PA products. In light of the warning letter sent to our active ingredient supplier and of the time requirements necessary to complete an assessment of its strategic options, and to properly prepare the market for the launch of our YOSPRALA product candidates, we believe the products will be available for commercialization in 2016. We need to conduct preclinical, toxicology, genotoxicity and carcinogenicity and other safety studies, and clinical trials for our product candidates. Any negative or unanticipated results, unforeseen costs or delays in the conduct of these studies or trials, or the need to conduct additional studies or trials or to seek to persuade the FDA to evaluate the results of a study or trial in a different manner, could cause us to discontinue development of a product candidate or reduce, delay or eliminate our receipt of potential revenues for one or more of our product candidates and adversely affect our ability to achieve profitability. Generally, we must demonstrate the efficacy and safety of our product candidates before approval to market can be obtained from the FDA or the regulatory authorities in other countries. Our existing and future product candidates are and will be in various stages of clinical development. Depending upon the type of product candidate and the stage of the development process of a product candidate, we will need to complete preclinical, toxicology, genotoxicity and carcinogenicity and other safety studies, as well as clinical trials, on these product candidates before we submit marketing applications in the United States and abroad. These studies and trials can be very costly and time-consuming. For example, long-term cardiovascular safety studies, such as those the FDA has indicated will be required for approval of certain product candidates containing NSAIDs, typically take approximately three years. In addition, we rely on third parties to perform significant aspects of our studies and clinical trials, introducing additional sources of risk into our development programs. It should be noted that the results of any of our preclinical and clinical trial testing are not necessarily predictive of results we will obtain in subsequent or more extensive clinical trials or testing. This may occur for many reasons, including, among others, differences in study design, including inclusion/exclusion criteria, the variability of patient characteristics, including patient symptoms at the time of study treatment, the larger scale testing of patients in later trials, or differences in formulation or doses of the product candidate used in later trials. For example, our results from the first of our two Phase 3 pivotal clinical trials of Treximet differed from the results of our second Phase 3 clinical trial and from the Phase 2 proof-of-concept trial of MT 400 that we conducted prior to entering into our collaboration with GSK. Whereas in the Phase 2 trial statistical significance was reached at two hours over placebo in the relief of all associated symptoms of migraine (nausea, photophobia and phonophobia), in the first Phase 3 study Treximet failed to achieve statistical significance at two hours compared to placebo in the relief of nausea. In the second Phase 3 pivotal clinical trial, Treximet demonstrated superiority over the individual components measured by sustained pain-free response (p<0.001 vs. naproxen; p=0.009 vs. sumatriptan) and met all other regulatory endpoints versus placebo. The successful completion of any of our clinical trials depends upon many factors, including the rate of enrollment of patients. If we are unable to recruit sufficient clinical patients during the appropriate period, we may need to delay our clinical trials and incur significant additional costs. We also rely on the compliance of our clinical trial investigators with FDA regulatory requirements and noncompliance can result in disqualification of a clinical trial investigator and data that are unusable. In addition, the FDA or Institutional Review Boards may require us to conduct additional trials or delay, restrict or discontinue our clinical trials on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Further, even though we may have completed all clinical trials for a product candidate that were planned for submission in support of an application, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, studies or investigations or to submit additional data to support our marketing applications. For example, in February, 2012, the FDA requested an additional Phase 1 study to assess the bioequivalence of PA32540 to EC aspirin 325 mg with respect to ASA. Enteric coated products such as PA32540 and EC aspirin 325 mg have highly variable pharmacokinetics, making bioequivalence difficult to demonstrate using traditional methods and standards. The FDA made a preliminary review of the study results and the Company’s summary analyses and, based on its preliminary assessment of the information available to it at the time, the FDA did not agree that bioequivalence of PA32540 to EC aspirin 325 mg was demonstrated. 33 Table of Contents In addition, we and/or our marketing or development partners may determine that pre-approval marketing support studies should be conducted. Unanticipated adverse outcomes of such studies, including recognition of certain risks to human subjects, could a have material impact on the approval of filed or planned market applications or could result in limits placed on the marketing of the product. We may also determine from time to time that it would be necessary to seek to provide justification to the FDA or other regulatory agency that would result in evaluation of the results of a study or clinical trial in a manner that differs from the way the regulatory agency initially or customarily evaluated the results, as was the case with the Phase 1 study to assess the bioequivalence of PA32540 to EC aspirin 325 mg described in the preceding paragraph. In addition, we may have unexpected results in our preclinical or clinical trials or other studies that require us to reconsider the need for certain studies or trials or cause us to discontinue development of a product candidate. For example, in reviewing our NDA for Treximet, the FDA expressed concern about the potential implications from one preclinical in-vitro chromosomal aberration study, one of four standard genotoxicity assays, in which a possible genotoxicity signal was seen for the combination of naproxen sodium and sumatriptan. Further, additional information about potential drug-drug interactions may restrict the patient population for our products, thus limiting the potential market and our potential revenue. For example, recent scientific publications contain conflicting data regarding a possible interaction between clopidogrel (Plavix®), a widely prescribed anti-platelet agent, and proton pump inhibitor products, and its impact on cardiovascular outcomes. If the clinical relevance of the possible interaction is unresolved by the time PA32540 enters the marketplace, even if the interaction is later proven definitively to have no clinical impact on cardiovascular outcomes, the market potential of the product may be reduced. Once submitted, an NDA requires FDA approval before the product described in the application can be distributed or commercialized. Even if we determine that data from our clinical trials, toxicology, genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies are positive, we cannot assure you that the FDA, after completing its analysis, will not determine that the trials or studies should have been conducted or analyzed differently, and thus reach a different conclusion from that reached by us, or request that further trials, studies or analyses be conducted. For example, the FDA requested additional safety information on Treximet in the approvable letter we received in June 2006 relating to our NDA for Treximet, which required conduct of additional studies, and in August 2007, we received a second approvable letter in which the FDA raised an additional concern about the potential implications from one preclinical in vitro chromosomal aberration study, one of four standard genotoxicity assays, in which a genotoxicity signal was seen for the combination of naproxen sodium and sumatriptan. The FDA may also require data in certain subpopulations, such as pediatric use, or, if such studies were not previously completed, may require long-term carcinogenicity studies, prior to NDA approval, unless we can obtain a waiver of such a requirement. We face similar regulatory hurdles in other countries to those that we face in the U.S. Our costs associated with our human clinical trials vary based on a number of factors, including: · the order and timing of clinical indications pursued; · the extent of development and financial support from collaborative parties, if any; · the need to conduct additional clinical trials or studies; · the number of patients required for enrollment; · the difficulty of obtaining sufficient patient populations and clinicians; · the difficulty of obtaining clinical supplies of our product candidates; and · governmental and regulatory delays. We currently depend and will in the future depend on third parties to manufacture our product candidates. If these manufacturers fail to meet our requirements or any regulatory requirements, the product development and commercialization of our product candidates will be delayed. We do not have, and have no plans to develop, the internal capability to manufacture either clinical trial or commercial quantities of products that we may develop or have under development. We rely upon third-party manufacturers and our partners to supply us with our product candidates. We also need supply contracts to sell our products commercially. On December 19, 2011, we entered into a Supply Agreement and a related Capital Agreement with Patheon pursuant to which Patheon has agreed to manufacture, and we have agreed to purchase, a specified percentage of the Company’s requirements of PA32540 for sale in the United States. The Supply Agreement and Capital Agreement were amended on July 10, 2013 to, among other things, expressly incorporate the Company’s PA8140 product candidate into the Supply Agreement and to replace the schedule of the Capital Agreement which lists dedicated and non-dedicated capital equipment and facility modifications to be funded in whole or in part by the Company, with a new updated schedule reflecting the parties’ current assumptions regarding the need for and timing of capital equipment expenditures. We also rely on third parties to supply the active ingredients and other ingredients used in the manufacture of our products. Failure of such ingredient suppliers to comply with regulatory requirements can impact our ability to obtain approval of our products or our ability to supply the market with our products after approval. For example, On April 25, 2014, we announced that we had received a CRL from the FDA with respect to the NDA for our PA32540 and PA8140 products. In the CRL, the FDA noted that, during an inspection of the manufacturing facility of an active ingredient supplier, inspection deficiencies were found. Satisfactory resolution of deficiencies noted by the field investigator is required before the NDA may be approved. On May 9, 2014, our active ingredient supplier submitted a response to the FDA addressing the inspection deficiencies and subsequently submitted an update to its initial response. On December 17, 2014, we received a second CRL from the FDA advising that the review of our NDA is completed and questions remain that preclude approval of the NDA in its current form. In this CRL, the FDA used identical wording to that of the first CRL. Satisfactory resolution of these deficiencies is required before this application may be approved. There were no clinical or safety deficiencies noted with respect to either PA32540 and PA8140 and no other deficiencies were noted in the CRL. We cannot guarantee that the FDA will consider any actions taken by the active ingredient supplier to be sufficient to address the inspection deficiencies. 34 Table of Contents There is no guarantee that manufacturers that enter into commercial supply contracts with us will be financially viable entities going forward, or will not otherwise breach or terminate their agreements with us. If we do not have the necessary commercial supply contracts, or if Patheon is, or any of our future manufacturers are, unable to satisfy our requirements or meet any regulatory requirements, and we are required to find alternative sources of supply, there may be additional costs and delays in product development and commercialization of our product candidates or we may be required to comply with additional regulatory requirements. If our competitors develop and commercialize products faster than we do or if their products are superior to ours, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. Our product candidates will have to compete with existing and any newly developed migraine therapies or therapies for any newly developed product candidates for the treatment of other diseases. There are also likely to be numerous competitors developing new products to treat migraine and the other diseases and conditions for which we may seek to develop products in the future, which could render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. For example, our primary competitors will likely include large pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, universities and public and private research institutions. The competition for VIMOVO and any other PN products that may be developed and receive regulatory approval will come from the oral NSAID market, or more specifically the traditional non-selective NSAIDs (such as naproxen and diclofenac), traditional NSAID/gastroprotective agent combination products or combination product packages (such as Arthrotec® and Prevacid® NapraPAC™), combinations of NSAIDs and PPIs taken as separate pills and the only remaining COX-2 inhibitor, Celebrex®. The competition for our PA product candidates for which we have conducted studies for secondary prevention of cardiovascular events will come from aspirin itself as well as other products used for secondary prevention. AstraZeneca, with whom we collaborated in the development of VIMOVO, has publicly announced that it has obtained regulatory approval for a combination product containing aspirin and esomeprazole in Europe and has also filed a NDA with the FDA for such product, and for which the FDA issued a CRL declining approval. AstraZeneca has stated that it is currently evaluating the CRL and will continue discussions with the FDA to determine next steps. This product has entered the European market and, if it enters the U.S. market, will compete with our PA cardiovascular product candidates. Based upon their drug product and pipeline portfolios and the overall competitiveness of our industry, we believe that we face, and will continue to face, intense competition from other companies for securing collaborations with pharmaceutical companies, establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, and acquiring licenses to proprietary technology. Our competitors, either alone or with collaborative parties, may also succeed with technologies or products that are more effective than any of our current or future technologies or products. Many of our actual or potential competitors, either alone or together with collaborative parties, have substantially greater financial resources, and almost all of our competitors have larger numbers of scientific and administrative personnel than we do. Many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative parties, also have significantly greater resources to or experience in: · developing product candidates; · undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; · obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of product candidates; and · manufacturing and marketing products. Accordingly, our actual or potential competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA or other regulatory approval or commercializing products where we cannot or before we do. Any delays we encounter in obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates, such as we experienced as a result of the approvable letters we received from the FDA in June 2006 and August 2007 relating to the NDA for Treximet, as a result of the not-approvable letters we received from the FDA on MT 100 and MT 300, and as a result of the CRLs we received from the FDA relating to the NDA for PA32540 and PA8140 on April 25, 2014 and December 16, 2014, increase this risk. Our competitors may also develop products or technologies that are superior to those that we are developing, and render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. If we cannot successfully compete with new or existing products, our marketing and sales will suffer and we may not ever receive any revenues from sales of products or may not receive sufficient revenues to achieve profitability. 35 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our patents or proprietary rights, or if we are unable to operate our business without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of others, we may be unable to develop our product candidates or compete effectively. The pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability, and the ability of our licensors, to obtain and to keep protection for our products and technologies under the patent laws of the United States and other countries, so that we can stop others from using our inventions. Our success also will depend on our ability to prevent others from using our trade secrets. In addition, we must operate in a way that does not infringe, or violate, the patent, trade secret and other intellectual property rights of other parties. We cannot know how much protection, if any, our patents will provide or whether our patent applications will issue as patents. The breadth of claims that will be allowed in patent applications cannot be predicted and neither the validity nor enforceability of claims in issued patents can be assured. If, for any reason, we are unable to obtain and enforce valid claims covering our products and technology, we may be unable to prevent competitors from using the same or similar technology or to prevent competitors from marketing identical products. For example, if we are unsuccessful in protecting our patents in the litigation against Dr. Reddy’s, Lupin, Anchen, Watson and Mylan or other companies who may file ANDAs for VIMOVO, such companies could market a generic version of the product prior to the expiration of our and AstraZeneca’s patents. In addition, due to the extensive time needed to develop, test and obtain regulatory approval for our products, any patents that protect our product candidates may expire early during commercialization. This may reduce or eliminate any market advantages that such patents may give us. In certain territories outside the U.S., our issued patents may be subject to opposition by competitors within a certain time after the patent is issued. Such opposition proceedings and related appeals may not be resolved for several years, and may result in the partial or total revocation of the issued patent. For example, in October 2005 oppositions were filed against our issued European patent for MT 400 by Merck & Co., Inc. and Almirall Prodesfarma asserting that the European patent should not have been granted. As a result of these oppositions and subsequent proceedings, the European Patent Office found that claims relating to combinations of sumatriptan and naproxen for the treatment of migraine were valid. However, broader claims relating to certain other 5-HT 1B/1D agonists and long-acting NSAIDs were held to be insufficiently supported by the presently available technical evidence. In addition, in April 2011, oppositions were also filed against our issued European patent for VIMOVO and our PA Products by Chatfield Laboratories and Strawman Limited asserting that the European patent should not have been granted. Strawman Limited subsequently withdrew from the opposition. Following oral proceedings, the Opposition Division of the European Patent Office found that claims relating to the combination of PPIs and NSAIDs are valid. Chatfield Laboratories did not appeal this decision. We may need to submit our issued patents for amendment or reissue if we determine that any claims within our patents should not have been issued. While such a submission may be based on our view that only specified claims should not have been granted to us, there can be no assurance that a patent examiner will not determine that additional claims should not have been granted to us. Such was the case with one of our patents covering MT 100, which we submitted for reissue after determining that certain specified claims that are not central to our protection of MT 100 should not have been issued. In April 2006, we received an office action on the reissue application and, consistent with our decision not to devote further resources to the development of this product in the U.S., the reissue application was abandoned in January 2007. We may need to license rights to third party patents and intellectual property to continue the development and marketing of our product candidates. If we are unable to acquire such rights on acceptable terms, our development activities may be blocked and we may be unable to bring our product candidates to market. 36 Table of Contents We may enter into litigation to defend ourselves against claims of infringement, assert claims that a third party is infringing one or more of our patents, protect our trade secrets or know-how, or determine the scope and validity of others’ patent or proprietary rights. For example, we filed patent infringement lawsuits against Par, Alphapharm, Teva, Dr. Reddy’s and Sun in the federal court in the Eastern District of Texas in connection with their respective ANDA submissions to the FDA containing Paragraph IV certifications for approval to market sumatriptan 85 mg/naproxen sodium 500 mg tablets, a generic version of Treximet tablets, before the expiration of our patents. Further, we and AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Dr. Reddy’s, Lupin, Anchen, Watson and Mylan in the federal court in the District of New Jersey in connection with their respective ANDA submissions to the FDA containing a paragraph IV certification for approval to market (a generic version of VIMOVO tablets, before the expiration of our and AstraZeneca’s patents. With respect to some of our product candidates, under certain circumstances, our development or commercialization collaborators have the first right to enforce our patents and would have exclusive control over such enforcement litigation. For example, under our collaboration agreements with GSK and AstraZeneca, GSK and AstraZeneca each has the first right to enforce our patents under their respective agreements. GSK advised us that it elected not to exercise its first right to bring an infringement suit against Par, Alphapharm, Teva, and Dr. Reddy’s, and Sun each of which submitted ANDAs to the FDA for approval to market a generic version of Treximet tablets, while AstraZeneca has exercised its first right to bring an infringement suit against Dr. Reddy’s Lupin, Anchen, Watson and Mylan, each of which submitted an ANDA to the FDA for approval to market a generic version of VIMOVO tablets. As part of Horizon’s purchase of all of AstraZeneca’s rights, title and interest to develop, commercialize and sell VIMOVO in the United States, Horizon has assumed AstraZeneca’s right to lead the above-described Paragraph IV litigation relating to VIMIVO. If we are found to infringe the patent rights of others, then we may be forced to pay damages in an amount that might irreparably harm our business and/or be prevented from continuing our product development and marketing activities. Additionally, if we or our development or commercialization collaborator seek to enforce our patents and are unsuccessful, we may be subject to claims for bringing a failed enforcement action, including claims alleging various forms of antitrust violations (both state and federal) and unfair competition. If we are found to be liable for such claims, then we may be forced to pay damages in an amount that might irreparably harm our business and/or be prevented from continuing our product development and commercialization activities. Even if we are successful in defending any such claims of infringement or in asserting claims against third parties, such litigation is expensive, may have a material effect on our operations, and may distract management from our business operations. Regardless of its eventual outcome, any lawsuit that we enter into may consume time and resources that would impair our ability to develop and market our product candidates. We have entered into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators. However, these parties may not honor these agreements and, as a result, we may not be able to protect our rights to unpatented trade secrets and know-how. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and know-how. Also, many of our scientific and management personnel were previously employed by competing companies. As a result, such companies may allege trade secret violations and similar claims against us. None of our products may be accepted by the market. The commercial success of our product candidates depends upon the acceptance of these products in the marketplace. Even if a product displays a favorable efficacy and safety profile in clinical trials, market acceptance of a product will not be known until after it is launched and a product may not generate the revenues that we anticipate. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including: · the acceptance by physicians and third-party payors of VIMOVO as an alternative to other therapies; · the receipt and timing of regulatory approvals; · the availability of third-party reimbursement; · the indications for which the product is approved; · the rate of adoption by healthcare providers; · the rate of product acceptance by target patient populations; · the price of the product relative to alternative therapies; · the availability of alternative therapies; · the extent and effectiveness of marketing efforts by our collaborators, and third-party distributors and agents; · the existence of adverse publicity regarding our products or similar products; and · the extent and severity of side effects as compared to alternative therapies. If we or our commercialization partners do not receive adequate third-party reimbursements for our future products, our revenues and profitability will be reduced. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates successfully will depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, such as Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S., private health insurers and other organizations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of a newly approved healthcare product. Adequate third-party coverage may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product research and development. If adequate coverage and reimbursement levels are not provided by government and third-party payors for use of our products, our products may fail to achieve market acceptance. For example, on July 28, 2014, Horizon announced that it had been verbally notified by CVS Caremark and Express Scripts, Inc. that VIMOVO would no longer be on their formularies and will be placed on their exclusion lists effective January 1, 2015. Horizon estimates that approximately 20-30% of VIMOVO prescriptions could be impacted by these decisions. While Horizon believes it has a strategy to mitigate the effect on VIMOVO sales, POZEN’s royalty revenue from Net Sales of VIMOVO beginning in 2015 may be negatively affected. 37 Table of Contents Our future revenues, profitability and access to capital will be affected by the continuing efforts of governmental and private third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare through various means. We expect that a number of federal, state and foreign proposals will seek to control the cost of drugs through governmental regulation. We are unsure of the form that any healthcare reform legislation may take or what actions federal, state, foreign and private payors may take in response to any proposed reforms. Therefore, we cannot predict the effect of any implemented reform on our business. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In both the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or PPACA, which includes a number of health care reform provisions and requires most U.S. citizens to have health insurance. PPACA increased the minimum Medicaid drug rebates for pharmaceutical companies, expands the 340B drug discount program, and makes changes to affect the Medicare Part D coverage gap, or “donut hole.” The law also revises the definition of “average manufacturer price” for reporting purposes which could increase the amount of the Company’s Medicaid drug rebates to states. The law also imposed a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance also have been added, which may require modification of business practices with health care practitioners. The reforms imposed by the new law will significantly impact the pharmaceutical industry; however, the full effects of PPACA cannot be known until these provisions are fully implemented and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services and other federal and state agencies issue applicable regulations or guidance. Moreover, in the coming years, additional changes could be made to governmental healthcare programs that could significantly impact the success of our products, and we could be adversely affected by current and future health care reforms. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our product candidates. The testing and marketing of pharmaceutical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our future products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against such claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit the commercialization of our product candidates. We have product liability insurance that covers our commercialized product and human clinical trials in an amount equal to up to $10 million annual aggregate limit with a $0.1 million deductible per claim. The amount of insurance that we currently hold may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that may occur. However, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. We will explore, on an on-going basis, expanding our insurance coverage related to the sale of our future marketed products when we obtain marketing approval for such products and commercial sales of such products begin. However, we may not be able to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. If a plaintiff brings a successful product liability claim against us in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, we may incur substantial liabilities and our business may be harmed or fail. We may need additional funding and may not have access to capital. If we are unable to raise capital when needed, we may need to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development or commercialization efforts. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds to execute our business strategy. We have incurred losses from operations since inception and we may continue to incur additional operating losses. Our actual capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: · the progress of our research and development programs; 38 Table of Contents · the progress of preclinical studies, clinical and other testing or the need conduct additional trials, studies or other testing; · the time and cost involved in obtaining any regulatory approvals; · the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; · the effect of competing technological and market developments; · the timing of our receipt, if any, of milestone payments and royalties under collaborative agreements; · the effect of changes and developments in, or termination of, our collaborative, license and other relationships; · the terms and timing of any additional collaborative, license and other arrangements that we may establish; and · our ability to commercialize or arrange for the commercialization of our product candidates. Our operating expenses for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 totaled $15.8 million, including non-cash compensation expense of $1.9 million related to stock options and other stock-based awards. For fiscal years 2012 through 2014, our average annual operating expenses (including average non-cash deferred compensation of $2.9 million) were $24.6 million. As of December 31, 2014, we had an aggregate of $40.6 million in cash and cash equivalents. Our operating expenses for 2015 and 2016 may exceed the net level of our operating expenses in 2014. However, with respect to future products we may develop, we have decided that we will no longer commit substantial resources to further drug development without a partner who agrees to pay the full cost of that development. Consistent with this model, we have reduced our R&D staff and other costs and expenses as our PA development program activities wind down and intend to continue to reduce staff that is no longer required to support our then current business activities. Our board of directors and management team continue to explore potential ways to return value to our stockholders. On November 21, 2013, our Board of Directors declared a special cash distribution of $1.75 per share to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 11, 2013, with a payment date of December 30, 2013. This distribution represented a surplus of corporate cash and was treated as a return of capital to stockholders. We may consider other cash distributions in the future as is prudent. We believe that we will have sufficient cash reserves and cash flow to maintain our planned level of business activities, through 2015. However, our anticipated cash flow includes continued receipt of royalty revenue from Horizon and AstraZeneca’s sale of VIMOVO but does not include any additional milestone or royalty payments. In addition, our expenses might increase during that period beyond currently expected levels if we decide to, or any regulatory agency requires us to, conduct additional clinical trials, studies or investigations for any of our product candidates, including in connection with the agency’s consideration, or reconsideration, of our regulatory filings for our product candidates or if we decide to commercialize our PA product candidates in the United States without a commercial partner. If our projected revenues decrease, we may need to raise additional capital. If our projected expenses increase for our product candidates currently in development, or if we expand our studies for additional indications for our PA product candidates or new product candidates, then, as a result of these or other factors, we may need to raise additional capital. While we retained ownership of our PA product candidates for cardiovascular indications through the clinical development and pre-commercialization stage, with respect to future products we may develop, we have decided that we will no longer commit substantial resources to further drug development without a partner who agrees to pay the full cost of that development. We may be unable to raise additional equity funds when we desire to do so due to unfavorable market conditions in our industry or generally, or due to other unforeseen developments in our business. Further, we may not be able to find sufficient debt or equity funding, if at all, on acceptable terms. If we cannot, we may need to delay, reduce or eliminate research and development programs and therefore may not be able to execute our business strategy. Further, to the extent that we obtain additional funding through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary for us to give up valuable rights to our development programs or technologies or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. The sale by us of additional equity securities or the expectation that we will sell additional equity securities may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which would harm our research and development efforts. We are highly dependent on the efforts of our key management and scientific personnel, especially John R. Plachetka, Pharm.D., our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Dr. Plachetka signed an amended and restated employment agreement with us on March 14, 2006, which was amended on September 28, 2007, for a three-year term with automatic one-year renewal terms. We have also entered into employment agreements with certain of our other key management personnel, which provide for one or two-year terms with automatic one-year renewal terms which were amended on September 28, 2007. If we should lose the services of Dr. Plachetka, or are unable to replace the services of our other key personnel who may leave the Company, including John G. Fort, M.D., Chief Medical Officer, or William L. Hodges, Senior Vice President Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer, or if we fail to recruit other key scientific and commercial personnel, we may be unable to achieve our business objectives. There is intense competition for qualified scientific and commercial personnel. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for developing our business. Furthermore, our future success may also depend in part on the continued service of our other key management personnel and our ability to recruit and retain additional personnel, as required by our business. 39 Table of Contents New and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements add uncertainty to our compliance policies and increase our costs of compliance. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, other SEC regulations, and the NASDAQ Global Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies like ours. These laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time, as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such corporate governance standards. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We consistently assess the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, remediate any control deficiencies that may be identified, and validate through testing that our controls are functioning as documented. While we do not anticipate any material weaknesses, the inability of management to assess our internal controls over financial reporting as effective could result in adverse consequences to us, including, but not limited to, a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline. The existence of this or one or more other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our financial statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify any internal control deficiencies. Although we continually review and evaluate internal control systems to allow management to report on the sufficiency of our internal controls, we cannot assure you that we will not discover weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Any such weakness or failure to remediate any existing material weakness could materially adversely affect our ability to comply with applicable financial reporting requirements and the requirements of our various agreements. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, the laws, regulations and standards regarding corporate governance may make it more difficult for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with their performance of duties. As a result, we may face difficulties attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws, regulations or standards of corporate governance, our business and reputation may be harmed. Risks Related to Potential Commercialization of our Product Candidates We continue to evaluate the commercial opportunities for our current product candidates in connection with our development of a worldwide commercialization strategy. If we decide to pursue the commercial opportunities for our future products ourselves or co-promote and/or retain a significant role in the commercialization of our future products with strategic partners and we are unable to develop sales and marketing capabilities on our own, or through partner acquisition, we will not be able to fully exploit the commercial potential of our future products and the costs of pursuing such a strategy may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Although we do not have sales and marketing experience, we continue to evaluate the commercial opportunities for our product candidates in connection with our development of a worldwide commercialization strategy. We decided to retain ownership of our PA product candidates through the clinical development and pre-commercialization stage and our chief commercial officer developed the commercialization strategy for these products and conducted all the required pre-commercialization activities in the United States. On November 29, 2014, we executed a termination agreement with Sanofi US terminating the license agreement for PA. As of the termination date, all licenses granted to Sanofi US were terminated and all rights to the products licensed to Sanofi US under the agreement reverted to us. The termination agreement further provides for the transfer of specified commercial know-how developed by Sanofi US relating to the PA products to us and allows us, and any future collaborators, to use this know-how to commercialize the products We are currently evaluating all strategic options available to us now that we have full ownership of the PA products in the United States. Outside the United States, we intend to secure relationships with one or more strong commercial partners with relevant expertise to commercialize our future products globally. If we change our strategy in the future and decide to pursue commercialization opportunities for our future products ourselves, or if we co-promote and/or retain a significant role in the commercialization of our future products with strategic partners, we may make significant expenditures to secure commercial resources to sell such products and expand our marketing capabilities to support such growth. Any failure or extended delay in the expansion of our sales and marketing capabilities or inability to effectively operate in the marketplace alone or together with our partners could adversely impact our business. There can be no assurance that if we decide to pursue commercialization opportunities ourselves or participate in the commercialization of our products with partners that our sales and marketing efforts will generate significant revenues and costs of pursuing such a strategy may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Events or factors that may inhibit or hinder our commercialization efforts include: 40 Table of Contents · developing our own commercial team or playing a role in the commercialization with a partner will be expensive and time-consuming and could result in high cash burn or reduced profitability; · failure to acquire sufficient or suitable personnel to establish, oversee, or implement our commercialization strategy; · failure to recruit, train, oversee and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; · failure to develop a commercial strategy ourselves or together with partners that can effectively reach and persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products; · our or our partners’ inability to secure reimbursement at a reasonable price; · unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating or acquiring and sustaining an independent commercial organization; · incurrence of costs in advance of anticipated revenues and subsequent failure to generate sufficient revenue to offset additional costs; and · our ability to fund our commercialization efforts alone or together with our partners on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we decide to pursue commercialization opportunities for our future products ourselves or if we co-promote and/or retain a significant role in the commercialization of our future products with strategic partners, failure to comply with the laws governing the marketing and sale of such future products may result in regulatory agencies taking action against us and/or our partners, which could significantly harm our business. We retained ownership of our PA product candidates through the clinical development and pre-commercialization stage and our chief commercial officer developed the commercialization strategy for these products and conducted pre-commercialization activities in the United States. We are currently evaluating all strategic options available to us now that we have full ownership of the PA products. Outside the United States, we intend to secure relationships with one or more strong commercial partners with relevant expertise to commercialize our future products globally. If we decide to pursue commercial opportunities for our PA product candidates or our future products ourselves, or if we co-promote and/or retain a significant role in the commercialization of our future products with strategic partners, we will be subject to a large body of legal and regulatory requirements. In particular, there are many federal, state and local laws that we will need to comply with if we become engaged in the marketing, promoting, distribution and sale of pharmaceutical products. The FDA extensively regulates, among other things, promotions and advertising of prescription drugs. In addition, the marketing and sale of prescription drugs must comply with the Federal fraud and abuse laws, which are enforced by the Office of the Inspector General of the Division, or OIG, of the Department of Health and Human Services. These laws make it illegal for anyone to give or receive anything of value in exchange for a referral for a product or service that is paid for, in whole or in part, by any federal health program. The federal government can pursue fines and penalties under the Federal False Claims Act which makes it illegal to file, or induce or assist another person in filing, a fraudulent claim for payment to any governmental agency. Because, as part of our and/or our partners commercialization efforts, we or our partners may provide physicians with samples we will be required to comply with the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, or PDMA, which governs the distribution of prescription drug samples to healthcare practitioners. Among other things, the PDMA prohibits the sale, purchase or trade of prescription drug samples. It also sets out record keeping and other requirements for distributing samples to licensed healthcare providers. 41 Table of Contents In addition, depending upon the terms of our agreements with our partners, we may need to comply with the body of laws comprised of the Medicaid Rebate Program, the Veterans’ Health Care Act of 1992 and the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005. This body of law governs product pricing for government reimbursement and sets forth detailed formulas for how we must calculate and report the pricing of our products so as to ensure that the federally funded programs will get the best price. Moreover, many states have enacted laws dealing with fraud and abuse, false claims, the distribution of prescription drug samples and gifts and the calculation of best price. These laws typically mirror the federal laws but in some cases, the state laws are more stringent than the federal laws and often differ from state to state, making compliance more difficult. We expect more states to enact similar laws, thus increasing the number and complexity of requirements with which we would need to comply. Compliance with this body of laws is complicated, time consuming and expensive. Because we do not have experience in developing, managing and training our employees regarding, a comprehensive healthcare compliance program, we cannot assure you that we will be in compliance with all potentially applicable laws and regulations. Even minor, inadvertent irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that the law has been violated. Failure to comply with all potentially applicable laws and regulations could lead to penalties such as the imposition of significant fines, debarment from participating in drug development and marketing and the exclusion from government-funded healthcare programs. The imposition of one or more of these penalties could adversely affect our revenues and our ability to conduct our business as planned. In addition, the Federal False Claims Act, which allows any person to bring suit alleging the false or fraudulent submission of claims for payment under federal programs and other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. Such suits, known as qui tam actions, have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that companies like us may have to defend a false claim action. We could also become subject to similar false claims litigation under state statutes. If we are unsuccessful in defending any such action, such action may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Factors That May Affect Our Stockholders Our stock price is volatile, which may result in significant losses to stockholders. There has been significant volatility in the market prices of biotechnology companies’ securities. Various factors and events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. These factors include: · fluctuations in our operating results; · announcements of technological innovations, acquisitions or licensing of therapeutic products or product candidates by us or our competitors; · published reports by securities analysts; · positive or negative progress with our clinical trials or with regulatory approvals of our product candidates; · commercial success of VIMOVO and our other product candidates in the marketplace once approved; · governmental regulation, including reimbursement policies; · developments in patent or other proprietary rights; · developments in our relationships with collaborative partners; · announcements by our collaborative partners regarding our products or product candidates; · developments in new or pending litigation; · public concern as to the safety and efficacy of our products; and · general market conditions. The trading price of our common stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to these factors, including the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of our common stock into the market. From October 16, 2000, when our common stock began trading on The NASDAQ National Market (now known as The NASDAQ Global Market), through February 24, 2015, the high and low sales prices of our common stock ranged from $2.25 to $21.88. Broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 42 Table of Contents Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market by us or our largest stockholders could depress our stock price. We have not sold shares of common stock in a public offering since our initial public offering in October 2000. Accordingly, we have a relatively small number of shares that are traded in the market. Approximately 9% of our outstanding shares are beneficially held by John Plachetka, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Additionally, we believe, based upon our review of public filings by certain stockholders and other publicly available information, an aggregate of approximately 25% of our outstanding shares are held by three other stockholders, with one stockholder beneficially owning greater than 10% of our outstanding shares. Any sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including sales or distributions of shares by our large stockholders, or the perception that such sales or distributions might occur, could harm the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. For example, our executive officers may sell shares pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. Further, stockholders’ ownership will be diluted if we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities. We have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and are seeking effectiveness of a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 under which we may offer up to and aggregate of 8,000,000 shares of our common stock for sale to the public in one or more public offerings. These shares will not be registered until this registration statement is declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The selling stockholder named in the prospectus for this registration statement may offer up to 500,000 shares of common stock, and we would not receive any of the proceeds from sales of those shares. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could prevent or delay transactions that our stockholders may favor and may prevent stockholders from changing the direction of our business or our management. Provisions of our charter and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares, and may also frustrate or prevent any attempt by stockholders to change the direction or management of POZEN. For example, these provisions: · authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders; · provide for a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; · require supermajority stockholder approval to effect various amendments to our charter and bylaws; · eliminate the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; · prohibit stockholder action by written consent; and · establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 