Item 1A. Risk Factors Our success is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below. These factors could hinder our growth, cause us to sustain losses or have other adverse effects on us, which could individually or collectively cause our stock price to decline. The following list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. During the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we completed the acquisition of Chipidea, and there are numerous risks associated with this acquisition. In August 2007, we completed the acquisition of Chipidea, a Portuguese company that supplies analog and mixed signal intellectual property for the digital consumer, wireless and connectivity markets. The purchase price for this acquisition was $147 million in cash paid at closing, with contingent obligations to issue up to 610,687 shares of common stock (or to pay the cash value of such shares) based on the performance of the Chipidea business. This is a substantially larger acquisition than any that we have previously completed and involves technology and products that are largely new to us. Many of the risks discussed below under “We may encounter difficulties with future acquisitions that could harm our business” may be enhanced as a result of the Chipidea acquisition. Among the many risks associated with the acquisition are the following: • the challenges and expense associated with integrating and managing a large acquired business, which challenge will be further complicated by the geographical distance between our headquarters in California and the Chipidea headquarters in Portugal; • our dependence on the MIPS management team to manage the Chipidea business, and integrate it with our existing business; • the possible adverse impact to us of the recent resignation of Jose Franca, founder and CEO of Chipidea prior to the acquisition, and the ongoing risk of the loss of additional key personnel whose ongoing employment with us could be important to our ability to continue to advance the Chipidea technology and to effectively market and sell its products; • diversion of our management team’s attention as we seek to capitalize on the opportunities presented by this acquisition may adversely affect our ability to operate our existing business. We may not achieve the advantages that we envisioned when we decided to complete this acquisition. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 we recorded substantial charges for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets from this acquisition, as our updated forecasts for the business showed lower near and long term profitability than we had estimated at the time of completing the acquisition. Supporting the licensing of analog and mixed signal IP is relatively more labor intensive than that of our microprocessor IP business, and we cannot be assured of our ability to achieve operating results from this business that correspond to those that we can achieve in our existing business. If we are not as successful as we anticipated with the Chipidea business, our future operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We used all of our cash to complete the acquisition of Chipidea. We used all of our available cash and short term investments to complete the acquisition of Chipidea and in connection with the acquisition incurred debt under a revolving credit agreement. This use of cash dramatically reduces our liquidity, and if we encounter difficulty in generating cash from the operation of our business we may be required to curtail our operations or take other acts that could adversely affect our ability to be successful over the longer term. In addition, we have not previously incurred debt for borrowed money. We have taken on longer term financing to replace this Revolving Credit Agreement, and have repaid it. Silicon Valley Bank has provided a loan to us on July 3, 2008 in the amount of $15 million for a term loan due and payable in monthly installments over four years and a revolving credit line in the amount of $10 million. Under the terms of a Loan and Security Agreement we must pay off all amounts due under the Revolving Credit Agreement or extend the agreement on or before July 2, 2009. Loans under the new facility are secured by virtually all of our assets, and the facility contains affirmative and negative covenants that impose restrictions on the operation of our business. We cannot be assured that we will be able to repay this debt on or before its due date. We will be required to make interest payments for so 12 long as this debt is outstanding. This incurrence of long term debt could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition and the sale of equity securities could be on terms that are dilutive to our existing stockholders. Further, the covenants contained in the credit facility may prevent us from taking advantage of opportunities that are otherwise available to us or could cause an earlier acceleration of the facility. We may not be able to obtain favorable credit terms related to any debt that we may incur in the future. Our quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations that could adversely affect our stock price. Our quarterly financial results may vary significantly due to a number of factors. In addition, our revenue components are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Because our revenues are somewhat independent of our expenses in any particular period, it is difficult to accurately forecast our operating results. Our operating expenses are based, in part, on anticipated future revenue and a very high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short term. As a result, if our revenue is below expectations in any quarter, the adverse effect may be magnified by our inability to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for the revenue shortfall. Therefore, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. Our acquisition of Chipidea will increase the challenge that we face in planning and predicting our future operating results. It is possible that in some future periods our results of operations may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our common stock may fall. Factors that could cause our revenue and operating results to vary from quarter to quarter include: • our ability to identify attractive licensing opportunities and then enter into new licensing agreements on terms that are acceptable to us; • our ability to successfully conclude licensing agreements of any significant value in a given quarter, particularly as we have become more reliant on larger transactions in PBG; • the financial terms and delivery schedules of our contractual arrangements with our licensees, which may provide for significant up-front payments, payments based on the achievement of certain milestones or extended payment terms; • the demand for products that incorporate our technology; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new intellectual property; • the establishment or loss of licensing relationships with semiconductor companies or digital consumer, wireless, connectivity and business product manufacturers; • the timing of new products and product enhancements by us and our competitors; • changes in development schedules, research and development expenditure levels and product support by us and semiconductor companies and digital consumer, wireless, connectivity and business product manufacturers; and • uncertain economic and market conditions. The success of our business depends on maintaining and growing our contract revenue. Contract revenue consists of technology license fees paid for access to our developed technology and engineering service fees related to technology under development. Our ability to secure the licenses from which our contract revenues are derived depends on our customers, including semiconductor companies, digital consumer, wireless, connectivity and business product manufacturers, adopting our technology and using it in the products they sell. Our Processor Business Group (PBG) contract revenue increased 28% in fiscal 2005, declined 12% in fiscal 2006, increased by 42% in fiscal 2007 and declined by 23% in fiscal 2008. In our PBG, we entered into a number of unlimited use license agreements with our customers. Under these agreements, customers generally pay a larger fixed up-front fee to use a number of our cores in unlimited SoC designs during the term of the agreement, which is generally between 4 and 7 years. The number of licensed cores can vary from one core to every core currently available. We recognize all license revenues under these unlimited use license agreements upon execution of the agreement, provided all revenue recognition criteria had been met. Contract revenue from 13 unlimited use license agreement was 69% in fiscal 2008, 49% in fiscal 2007, and 32% in fiscal 2006 of the total PBG license and contract revenue. Historically, a license-based business can have strong quarters or weak quarters depending on the number and size of the license deals closed during the quarter. We cannot predict whether we can maintain our current contract revenue levels or if contract revenue will grow. Our licensees are not obligated to license new or future generations of our products, so past contract revenue may not be indicative of the amount of such revenue in any future period. If we cannot maintain or grow our contract revenue or if our customers do not adopt our technology and obtain corresponding licenses, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Our ability to achieve design wins may be limited unless we are able to develop enhancements and new generations of our intellectual property. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop enhancements and new generations of our processors, cores or other intellectual property that satisfy the requirements of specific product applications and introduce these new technologies to the marketplace in a timely manner. If our development efforts are not successful or are significantly delayed, or if the characteristics of our IP product offerings and related designs are not compatible with the requirements of specific product applications, our ability to achieve design wins may be limited. Our failure to achieve a significant number of design wins would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Technical innovations of the type critical to our success are inherently complex and involve several risks, including: • our ability to anticipate and timely respond to changes in the requirements of semiconductor companies, and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, of digital consumer, wireless, connectivity and business products; • our ability to anticipate and timely respond to changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes; • changing customer preferences in the digital consumer, wireless, connectivity and business products markets; • the emergence of new standards in the semiconductor industry and for digital consumer, wireless, connectivity and business products; • the significant investment in a potential product that is often required before commercial viability is determined; and • the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. Our failure to adequately address these risks could render our existing IP product offerings and related designs obsolete and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will have the financial and other resources necessary to develop IP product offerings and related designs in the future, or that any enhancements or new generations of the technology that we develop will generate revenue sufficient to cover or in excess of the costs of development. In our Processor business we depend on royalties from the sale of products incorporating our technology, and we have limited visibility as to the timing and amount of such sales. Our receipt of royalties from our licenses depends on our customers incorporating our technology into their products, their bringing these products to market, and the success of these products. In the case of our semiconductor customers, the amount of such sales is further dependent upon the sale of the products by their customers into which our customers’ products are incorporated. Thus, our ability to achieve design wins and enter into licensing agreements does not assure us of future revenue. Any royalties that we are eligible to receive are based on the sales of products incorporating the semiconductors or other products of our licensees, and as a result we do not have direct access to information that will help us anticipate the timing and amount of future royalties. Factors that negatively affect our licensees and their customers could adversely affect our business. The success of our direct and indirect customers is subject to a number of factors, including: • the competition these companies face and the market acceptance of their products; 14 • the engineering, marketing and management capabilities of these companies and technical challenges unrelated to our technology that they face in developing their products; and • their financial and other resources. Because we do not control the business practices of our licensees and their customers, we have little influence on the degree to which our licensees promote our technology and do not set the prices at which products incorporating our technology are sold. We rely on our customers to correctly report to us the number or dollar value of products incorporating our technology that they have sold, as these sales are the basis for the royalty payments that they make to us. We have the right under our licensing agreements to perform a royalty audit of the customer’s sales so that we can verify the accuracy of their reporting, and if we determine that there has been an over-reported or under-reported amount of royalty, we account for the results when they are identified. If we do not compete effectively in the market for SoC intellectual property cores and related designs, our business will be adversely affected. Competition in the market for SoC intellectual property and related designs is intense. Our products compete with those of other designers and developers of IP product offerings, as well as those of semiconductor manufacturers whose product lines include digital, analog and/or mixed signal designs for embedded and non-embedded applications. In addition, we may face competition from the producers of unauthorized clones of our processor and other technology designs. The market for embedded processors in particular has recently faced downward pricing pressures on products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully or that competitive pressure will not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In order to be successful in marketing our products to semiconductor companies, we must differentiate our intellectual property cores and related designs from those available or under development by the internal design groups of these companies, including some of our current and prospective licensees. Many of these internal design groups have substantial engineering and design resources and are part of larger organizations with substantial financial and marketing resources. These internal design groups may develop products that compete with ours. Some of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, larger customer bases as well as greater financial and marketing resources than we do. This may allow them to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. It may also allow them to devote greater resources than we can to the development and promotion of their technologies and products. We may incur restructuring charges in the future, which could harm our results of operations. In January 2008, we announced plans to reduce our workforce with the objective of reducing our Processor Business Group operating expenses. These actions resulted in a restructuring charge in fiscal 2008 of $1.6 million, comprised of employee severance costs, facilities exit costs, and asset write-offs. In addition, on August 13, 2008, we announced a plan to reduce the Company’s operating costs by a reduction in employee headcount. This plan involves the termination of employees in our facilities in the United States, Israel and Europe. We expect to complete all actions under the restructuring by June 30, 2009. We expect to incur aggregate costs associated with this plan of approximately $6.5 million to $7.5 million. It is expected that the majority of these charges will consist of employee severance charges. These restructuring activities may not be sufficient to appropriately align our operating expenses with our revenue expectations. If we have not sufficiently reduced operating expenses or if revenues are below our expectations, we may be required to engage in additional restructuring activities, which could result in additional restructuring charges. These restructuring charges could harm our results of operations. Further, our restructuring plans could result in a potential adverse effect on employee capabilities that could harm our efficiency and our ability to act quickly and effectively in the rapidly changing technology markets in which we sell our products. Our operations in foreign countries are subject to political and economic risks. With the acquisition of Chipidea we have substantially expanded our operations outside the United States. In addition to the main Chipidea facilities in Portugal, we also have operations in Belgium, China, France, Macau, Norway, Switzerland 15 and Poland as well as sales offices in China, Germany, Japan, Israel, Korea and Taiwan. We expect our international sales to grow, both in absolute terms and as a percentage of sales. Our operations in countries outside the U.S. subject us to risks, including: • changes in tax laws, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • potential difficulties in protecting our intellectual property; • changes in foreign currency rates; • restrictions, or taxes, on transfers of funds between entities or facilities in different countries; and • changes in a given country’s political or economic conditions. As a result of one or more of these risks, our operating costs could increase substantially, our flexibility in operating our business could be impaired, our taxes could increase, and our sales could be adversely affected. Any of these items could have an adverse affect on our financial condition or results of operations. We depend on our key personnel to succeed. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued contributions of our key management, technical, sales and marketing personnel, many of whom are highly skilled and difficult to replace. This dependence is enhanced with our acquisition of Chipidea, as our ability to successfully operate this business in the future will depend significantly on our ability to retain key Chipidea management and employees. We cannot assure that we will retain our key officers and employees. Competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with significant experience in the semiconductor, analog, mixed signal and processor design industries, remains intense. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future could make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective project milestones and product introductions which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries with low statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or regulations or the interpretation of tax laws or regulations. We operate in countries other than the United States and occasionally face inquiries and examinations regarding tax matters in these countries. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may be subject to litigation and other legal claims that could adversely affect our financial results. From time to time, we are subject to litigation and other legal claims incidental to our business. In addition, it is standard practice for us to include some form of indemnification of our licensees in our core and architecture license agreements, and from time to time we are engaged in claims by our licensees with respect to these obligations. It is possible that we could suffer unfavorable outcomes from litigation or other legal claims, including those made with respect to indemnification obligations, that are currently pending or that may arise in the future. Any such unfavorable outcome could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We may be subject to claims of infringement. Significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industry. As we grow our business and expand into new markets that other companies are developing in, the risk that our technology may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others increases. We cannot be certain that third parties will not make a claim of infringement against us, our licensees, or our licensees’ customers in connection with use of our technology. Any claims, even those without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation and/or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. These royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms to us or at all. A successful claim of infringement against us or one of our licensees in connection with its use of our technology could adversely affect our business. From time to time, we receive communications from third parties asserting patent or other rights allegedly covering our products and technologies. Based upon our evaluation, we may take no action or we may seek to 16 obtain a license, redesign an accused product or technology, initiate a formal proceeding with the appropriate agency (e.g., the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office) and/or initiate litigation. There can be no assurance in any given case that a license will be available on terms we consider reasonable or that litigation can be avoided if we desire to do so. If litigation does ensue, the adverse third party will likely seek damages (potentially including treble damages) and may seek an injunction against the sale of our products that incorporate allegedly infringed intellectual property or against the operation of our business as presently conducted, which could result in our having to stop the sale of some of our products or to increase the costs of selling some of our products. Such lawsuits could also damage our reputation. The award of damages, including material royalty payments, or the entry of an injunction against the sale of some or all of our products, could have a material adverse affect on us. Even if we were to initiate litigation, such action could be extremely expensive and time-consuming and could have a material adverse effect on us. We cannot assure you that litigation related to our intellectual property rights or the intellectual property rights of others can always be avoided or successfully concluded. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our intellectual property may be misappropriated or expire, and we may be unable to obtain or enforce intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, including confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements, copyrights, patents, trademarks, and common-law rights, such as trade secrets, to protect our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that any of the patents or other intellectual property rights that we own or use will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others or be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. As part of our business strategy, we license our technology in multiple geographies including in countries whose laws do not provide as much protection for our intellectual property as the laws of the United States and where we may not be able to enforce our rights. In addition, intellectual property rights which we have obtained in particular geographies may and do expire from time to time. As a result, we cannot be certain that we will be able to prevent other parties from designing and marketing unauthorized MIPS compatible products that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire the same or substantially equivalent technologies as ours, or that others will not use information contained in our expired patents to successfully compete against us. Moreover, cross licensing arrangements, in which we license certain of our patents but do not generally transfer know-how or other proprietary information, may facilitate the ability of cross-licensees, either alone or in conjunction with others, to develop competitive products and designs. We also cannot assure you that any of our patent applications to protect our intellectual property will be approved, and patents that have issued do expire over time. Recent judicial decisions and proposed legislation in the United States may increase the cost of obtaining patents, limit the ability to adequately protect our proprietary technology, and have a negative impact on the enforceability of our patents. In addition, effective trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. If we are unable to protect, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights, our technology may be used without the payment of license fees and royalties, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our operating results and increase the likelihood of costly litigation. We have recorded long-lived assets, and our results of operations would be adversely affected if their value becomes impaired. Although we took a substantial charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 for the impairment of goodwill and acquired intangible assets associated with the Chipidea acquisition and prior acquisitions, we continue to carry substantial amounts of acquired intangible assets and goodwill. If we complete additional acquisitions in the future, our acquired intangible asset amortization expenses could further increase, and we may be required to record additional amounts of goodwill. In addition, we have made investments in certain private companies which could become impaired if the operating results of those companies change adversely. We evaluate our long-lived assets, including acquired intangible assets, goodwill and investments in private companies for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable from its estimated future cash flows. 17 In the future, if we make a further determination that our long-lived assets are impaired, we will have to recognize additional charges for the impairment. We cannot be sure that we will not be required to record additional long-lived asset impairment charges in the future. Our determination of fair value of long-lived assets relies on management’s assumptions of our future revenues, operating costs, and other relevant factors. If management’s estimates of future operating results change or if there are changes to other assumptions such as the discount rate applied to future cash flows, the estimate of the fair value of our reporting units could change significantly, which could result in additional goodwill impairment charges. We cannot be assured that our recent restructurings will sufficiently reduce our expenses relative to future revenue and may have to implement additional restructuring plans in order to reduce our operating costs. We have implemented restructuring plans in the past to reduce our operating costs, including plans announced in January and August 2008. We may not realize fully the anticipated benefits of the restructuring plans, which may lead to additional future restructurings to align our expenses with our anticipated revenue. If we are required to do so, we likely would incur additional amounts of material restructuring charges. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 