ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSOur past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance because actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. In addition, historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.Factors that might cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements discussed elsewhere in this report, as well as affect our ability to achieve our financial and other goals, include, but are not limited to, the following:1. The success of our business depends in large part on our ability to identify fashion trends as well as to react to changing customer demand in a timely manner. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing customer demands and fashion trends in a timely manner. The specialty retail apparel business fluctuates according to changes in customer preferences directed by trends and fashions. If we miscalculate our customers’ product preferences or the demand for our products, we may be faced with excess inventory. Historically, this has resulted in excess fabric for some products and markdowns and/or write-offs of raw materials as well as finished goods, which has impaired our profitability, and may do so in the future. Similarly, any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing customer demands and fashion trends will adversely affect our business. In addition, from time to time, we may pursue new concepts, and if the new concepts are not successful, our business could be harmed.2. The success of our business depends in large part on our ability to maintain our brand. Our ability to maintain our brand image and reputation is integral to our business as well as the implementation of strategies to expand it. Maintaining, promoting and growing our brand will depend largely on the success of our design, merchandising and marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high-quality client experience. In addition, while our brand is mature, our success depends on our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers to shop our brand. Our business would be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives for our brand. In addition, failure to achieve consistent, positive performance or the receipt of any negative publicity could adversely impact our brand and the brand loyalty of our customers, which would adversely impact our business.3. We face increasing product costs from our manufacturing partners, which could result in margin erosion. Increases in our product costs, such as raw materials and labor, may result in margin erosion. Recently, worldwide prices for raw materials that we use in our products have increased. Additionally, clothing manufacturers in China, where a significant percentage of our apparel products are manufactured, are experiencing increased costs due to labor shortages and the fluctuation of the Chinese Yuan in relation to the U.S. dollar, and these increased costs are often passed on to us. If we are unable to successfully mitigate a significant portion of such product cost increases, our business may be harmed.4. We rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture all of our products. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to find manufacturing facilities that perform acceptably. We do not own any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend on third parties to manufacture our products. In addition, we place all of our orders for production by purchase order and do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturers. If we fail to maintain favorable relationships with our manufacturers, our business could be materially and adversely affected.We cannot assure you that third-party manufacturers (1) will not supply similar products to our competitors, (2) will not stop supplying products to us completely or (3) will supply products in a timely manner. Untimely receipt of products may result in lower than anticipated sales and markdowns which would have a negative impact on earnings. Furthermore, we have received in the past, and may receive in the future, shipments of products from manufacturers that fail to conform to our quality control standards. In such event, unless we are able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, we may lose sales.5. If an independent manufacturer violates labor or other laws, or is accused of violating any such laws, or if their labor practices diverge from those generally accepted as ethical, it could harm our business and brand image. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to find and contract with independent manufactures which conduct their businesses using ethical or legal labor practices. While we maintain a policy to monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers by having an independent firm inspect these manufacturing sites, and all manufacturers are contractually required to comply with such labor practices, we cannot assure the compliance of these manufacturers. In addition, we cannot control the public’s perceptions of such manufacturers or their practices, even if they are compliant with law but are viewed in a negative light by the public. Because manufacturers act in their own interests, they may act in a manner that results in negative public perceptions of us. Moreover, in certain circumstances, we may be subject to liability or negative publicity that could adversely affect our brand and our business as a result of actions taken by these manufacturers.96. If we are unable to obtain raw materials for our products, our business could be materially adversely affected. We place all of our orders for raw materials by purchase order and do not have any long-term contracts with any supplier. If we fail to maintain favorable relationships with our suppliers or are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of quality raw materials on commercially reasonable terms, it could harm our business.In addition, certain of our third-party manufacturers store our raw materials. In the event our inventory was damaged or destroyed and we were unable to obtain replacement raw materials, our earnings and our business could be materially and adversely impacted.7. We face significant competition in the retail and apparel industry, which could harm our business. The retail and apparel industries are highly competitive and are characterized by low barriers to entry. We expect competition in our markets to increase. The primary competitive factors in our markets are: brand name recognition and appeal, sourcing, product styling, quality, presentation and pricing, timeliness of product development and delivery, store ambiance, customer service and convenience. We compete with traditional department stores, specialty store retailers, lower price point retailers, business to consumer websites, off-price retailers and direct marketers for, among other things, raw materials, market share, retail space, finished goods, sourcing and personnel. Because many of these competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial, distribution and marketing resources than we do or maintain comparatively lower cost of operations, we may lack the resources to effectively compete with them. If we fail to remain competitive in any way, it could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to address the challenges of declining store traffic in a highly promotional, low growth environment, our business will be negatively affected.8. General economic conditions, including increases in energy and commodity prices, that are largely out of our control may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The demand for our products is influenced by national and local economic factors that may affect consumer spending or buying habits. Factors that could adversely affect the demand for our products include recessionary economic cycles, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, deflation, increases in commodity prices, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws. A decline in economic conditions could also result in reduced traffic in our stores or limitations on the prices we can charge for our products, either of which could adversely affect our business. We can provide no assurance that demand for our products will not be adversely affected by national or local economic conditions, thereby harming our business.In addition, economic factors such as those listed above and increased transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, and changes in other laws and regulations may increase our cost of sales and our operating, selling, general and administrative expenses. Any such increase would also negatively impact our business, including our financial results.9. Because Manny Mashouf beneficially owns a substantial portion of the outstanding shares, other shareholders may not be able to influence the direction the company takes. As of August 30, 2014, Manny Mashouf, our Chairman of the Board, beneficially owned approximately 55% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, he can control the election of directors and the outcome of all issues submitted to the shareholders. This may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire shares, may discourage acquisition bids, and could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay for shares of common stock. This concentration of stock ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company.10. We cannot assure that future store openings will be successful and new store openings may impact existing stores. We expect to open approximately 4 stores for bebe and 2 bebe outlet stores in fiscal 2015, while our international licensee operated point-of-sale locations are expected to remain unchanged. We cannot provide assurance that the stores we plan to open in fiscal 2015, or any other stores that we might open in the future, will be successful or that our overall results will improve as a result of opening these stores.The success of a future store depends on our ability to effectively obtain real estate that meets our criteria, including traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, average sales per square foot, lease economics, demographics and other factors. In addition, continued consolidation in the commercial retail real estate market could affect our ability to successfully negotiate favorable rental terms for our stores in the future. Should significant consolidation continue, a large proportion of our store base could be concentrated with one or a few entities that could then be in a position to dictate unfavorable terms to us due to their significant negotiating leverage. If we are unable to negotiate favorable lease terms with these entities, this could affect our ability to profitably operate our stores, which would adversely impact our business.In addition, many of our stores are located in shopping malls and other retail centers that benefit from the ability of “anchor” retail tenants, generally large department stores, and other attractions, to generate sufficient levels of consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. Any decline in the volume of consumer traffic at shopping centers, whether because of the economic slowdown, a 10decline in the popularity of shopping centers, the closing of anchor stores or otherwise, could result in reduced sales at our stores and excess inventory. We may have to respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, new store openings have the potential to cannibalize the net sales and profitability of other existing stores.11. We may be forced to close stores or write-down store assets that are not able to achieve planned financial performance, which may force us to record losses in future quarters. The results achieved by our stores may not be indicative of long-term performance or the potential performance of stores in other locations. The failure of stores to achieve acceptable results could result in additional store asset impairment charges, which could adversely affect our business.In addition, in the past, we have had to close stores as a result of poor performance. For example, in the fiscal year 2014, we closed 37 stores, including 2b stores which are part of discontinued operations, and during fiscal 2015, we anticipate closing up to 10 bebe stores and 2 bebe outlet stores. Closure of the 2b stores resulted in charges of approximately $1.9 million. We also estimate that we will incur approximately $6.4 million in lease obligation costs related to the closure of 2b stores. During fiscal year 2014, we have recorded impairment charges of approximately $7.0 million relating to under-performing stores. Closing stores because of poor performance could have a material adverse effect on our business, and such impairment and other charges have an adverse impact on our financial results.12. Our sales, margins and operating results are subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations. Our business varies with general seasonal trends that are characteristic of the retail and apparel industries, such as the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales. As a result, our stores typically generate a higher percentage of our annual net sales and profitability in our second fiscal quarter which includes the holiday selling season, compared to other quarters.In addition, our quarterly comparable store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past, and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect comparable store sales, including fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions. Our ability to deliver strong comparable store sales results and margins depends in large part on accurately forecasting demand and fashion trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our customer base, managing inventory effectively, and optimizing store performance by closing under-performing stores. Such fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.13. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees in order to support our existing businesses and future expansion. From time to time we actively recruit qualified candidates to fill key executive positions within our company. There is substantial competition for experienced personnel, which we expect will continue. We compete for experienced personnel with companies who may have greater financial resources than we do. During fiscal 2014, we experienced significant turnover of our executive management team as part of a restructure. We are also exposed to employment practice litigation due to the large number of employees and high turnover of our sales associates. If we fail to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel, it could harm our business and limit our ability to expand.14. We rely on information technology to help manage our operations and our e-commerce store, the disruption of which could adversely impact our business. We rely on various information systems to help manage our operations and regularly assess the cost-benefit analysis associated with making additional investments to upgrade, enhance or replace such systems. If at any time we experience any disruptions affecting our information systems we could experience a material adverse impact on our business.In addition, we operate an e-commerce store at www.bebe.com to sell our merchandise. Our on-line operations are subject to numerous risks, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third-party computer software providers and system failures. If at any time we experience any disruptions affecting our e-commerce store we could experience a material adverse impact on our business. The e-commerce operations also involve other risks that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations including but not limited to diversion of sales from our other stores, rapid technological change, liability for on-line content, credit card fraud and loss of sensitive data. We cannot assure that our e-commerce store will continue to achieve sales and profitability growth or even remain at its current level.15. We are subject to cyber-security risks and may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks and to respond to cyber incidents. Our business involves the storage and transmission of customers’ personal information, consumer preferences and credit card information. We also use mobile devices, social networking and other on-line activities to connect with our customers. If we experience a significant data security breach or fail to detect and appropriately respond to a significant data security breach, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation, and our business could be adversely affected. For example, if the portion of our network that handles payment card data is breached, it is possible that payment card and client information could be stolen. Such a breach might cause our customers to lose 11confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue usage of our club bebe loyalty program, or stop shopping with us altogether and potential significant cost.The loss of confidence from a significant data security breach involving team members could hurt our reputation, cause team member recruiting and retention challenges, increase our labor costs and adversely affect our business and financial results.16. Our business could be adversely impacted by unfavorable international political conditions. Our sales and operating results are, and will continue to be, affected by international social, political, legal and economic conditions. In particular, our business could be adversely impacted by instability or changes resulting in the disruption of trade with the countries in which our contractors, suppliers or customers are located, significant fluctuations in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies or restrictions on the transfer of funds, or additional trade restrictions imposed by the United States and other foreign governments. We can provide no assurance that our business will not be adversely affected by such international events.In addition, trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes and customs restrictions could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us and adversely affect our business. In addition, we purchase a substantial amount of our raw materials from China and our business and operating results may be affected by changes in the political, social or economic environment in China.17. Our ability to conduct business could be negatively impacted by the effects of natural disasters, war, terrorism, public health concerns or other catastrophes. We currently operate a corporate office in Brisbane, California, a distribution facility in Benicia, California, a design studio in Los Angeles, California, and a satellite office in New York, New York. Any serious disruption at these facilities whether due to construction, relocation, fire, flood, earthquake, terrorist acts or otherwise could harm our business. Natural disasters, extreme weather and public health concerns, including severe infectious diseases, could impact our ability to open and run our corporate offices, distribution center, stores and other operations in affected areas and/or negatively impact our foreign sourcing offices and the operations of our vendors. In addition, our ability to continue to operate our business without significant interruption in the event of a disaster or other disruption depends, in part, on the ability of our information systems to operate in accordance with our disaster recovery and business continuity plans. Lower client traffic due to the effect of natural disasters or extreme weather, security concerns, war or the threat of war and public health concerns could result in decreased sales that could have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, our sales results were negatively impacted by extreme weather throughout the third quarter of the current fiscal year. In addition, threat of terrorist attacks or actual terrorist events in the United States and world-wide could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, disrupt the production, shipment or receipt of our merchandise or lead to lower client traffic. Our ability to mitigate the adverse impact of these events depends, in part, upon the effectiveness of our disaster preparedness and response planning as well as business continuity planning. However, we cannot be certain that our plans will be adequate or implemented properly in the event of an actual disaster or other catastrophic situation. In addition, although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us.18. If we are not able to protect our intellectual property our business may be harmed. Although we take actions to protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights we cannot assure you that we will be successful or that others will not imitate our products or infringe upon our intellectual property rights we cannot assure you that we will be successful. In addition, we cannot assure that others will not resist or seek to block the sale of our products as infringements of their trademark and proprietary rights.We are seeking to register our trademarks domestically and internationally. Obstacles may exist that may prevent us from obtaining a trademark for the bebe, BEBE SPORT and bbsp names or related names. We may not be able to register certain trademarks, purchase the right or obtain a license to use these names or related names on commercially reasonable terms. If we fail to obtain trademark, ownership or license the requisite rights, it would limit our ability to expand our business under the bebe brand.In some jurisdictions, despite successful registration of our trademarks, third parties may allege infringement and bring actions against us. In addition, if our licensees fail to use our intellectual property correctly, the reputation and value associated with our trademarks may be diluted. Furthermore, if we do not demonstrate use of our trademarks, our trademark rights may lapse over time.In addition, we face the potential of receiving claims that the technology we use or license infringes on another’s proprietary rights. In certain circumstances, we may be subject to having to defend ourselves from such claims and/or be subject to unanticipated license fees or the necessity to transition away from technology we are using or abandon such use altogether.1219. Our business may be negatively impacted by any failure to comply with regulatory requirements. As a public company, we are subject to numerous regulatory requirements, including those imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market. In addition, we are subject to numerous domestic and foreign laws and regulations affecting our business, including those related to labor, employment, worker health and safety, competition, privacy, consumer protection, credit cards, import/export and anti-corruption, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the Telephone Consumer Protection Act. Our employees, subcontractors, vendors and suppliers could take actions that violate these requirements and/or our compliance policies and procedures, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and on the market price of our common stock. Regulatory developments regarding the use of “conflict minerals,” certain minerals originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, could affect the sourcing and availability of raw materials used by suppliers and subject us to costs associated with the regulations, including for the diligence pertaining to the presence of any conflict minerals used in our products, possible changes to products, processes or sources of our inputs, and reporting requirements.20. A decline in value of our investments in auction rate securities or as a result of a change in our ability to hold our investments in auction rate securities may impact our financial condition . We hold a variety of interest bearing auction rate securities, or ARS, comprised of federally insured student loan backed securities and insured municipal authority bonds. These ARS investments are intended to provide liquidity via an auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at predetermined calendar intervals, allowing investors to either roll over their holdings or gain immediate liquidity by selling such interests at par. The uncertainties in the credit markets that began in February 2008 have affected our holdings in ARS investments and the majority of auctions for our investments in these securities have continued to fail to settle on their respective settlement dates. Consequently, $15.6 million of our ARS are not currently liquid and do not mature before 2031. Of this $15.6 million, $3.6 million is subject to a temporary impairment charge. We will not be able to access these funds until a future auction of these investments is successful or the securities are purchased or redeemed outside of the auction process, or repayment at maturity. Maturity dates for these ARS investments range from 2031 to 2033, with principal distributions occurring on certain securities prior to maturity.The valuation of our investment portfolio is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Factors that may impact its valuation include changes to credit ratings of the securities as well as to the underlying assets supporting those securities, rates of default of the underlying assets, underlying collateral value, discount rates and ongoing strength and quality of market credit and liquidity. If the current market conditions deteriorate further, or the anticipated recovery in market values does not occur, we may be required to record additional losses in other comprehensive income or losses in net income in future quarters.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.