Item 1A. Risk Factors — “Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet estimate.” Many state regulatory agencies also currently require monitoring systems for the collection and control of certain landfill gas. • The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (OSHA). OSHA authorizes the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor to promulgate occupational safety and health standards. A number of these standards, including standards for notices of hazardous chemicals and the handling of asbestos, apply to our facilities and operations. State and Local Regulation. Each state in which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liabilities for such matters. States also have adopted regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and closure of landfills and transfer stations. Some counties, municipalities and other local governments have adopted similar laws and regulations. Our facilities and operations are likely to be subject to these types of requirements. In addition, our solid waste collection and landfill operations may be affected by the trend in many states toward requiring the development of solid waste reduction and recycling programs. For example, several states have enacted laws that require counties or municipalities to adopt comprehensive plans to reduce, through solid waste planning, composting, recycling or other programs, the volume of solid waste deposited in 13 Table of Contents landfills. Additionally, laws and regulations restricting the disposal of certain waste in solid waste landfills, including yard waste, newspapers, beverage containers, unshredded tires, lead-acid batteries, electronic wastes and household appliances, have been promulgated in several states and are being considered in others. Legislative and regulatory measures to mandate or encourage waste reduction at the source and waste recycling also have been or are under consideration by the U.S. Congress and the EPA. To construct, operate and expand a landfill, we must obtain one or more construction or operating permits, as well as zoning and land use approvals. These permits and approvals may be difficult and time-consuming to obtain and to operate in compliance with, are often opposed by neighboring landowners and citizens’ groups, may be subject to periodic renewal, and are subject to denial, modification, non-renewal and revocation by the issuing agency. In connection with our acquisition of existing landfills, we may be required to expend considerable time, effort and money to bring the acquired facilities into compliance with applicable requirements and to obtain the permits and approvals necessary to increase their capacity. Other Regulations. Many of our facilities own and operate underground storage tanks that are generally used to store petroleum-based products. These tanks are generally subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that mandate their periodic testing, upgrading, closure and removal, and that, in the event of leaks, require that polluted groundwater and soils be remediated. We believe that all of our underground storage tanks currently meet all applicable regulations. If underground storage tanks we own or operate leak, we could be liable for response costs and, if the leakage migrates onto the property of others, we could be liable for damages to third parties. We are unaware of facts indicating that issues of compliance with regulations related to underground storage tanks will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. With regard to our solid waste transportation operations, we are subject to the jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board and are regulated by the Federal Highway Administration, Office of Motor Carriers, and by regulatory agencies in states that regulate such matters. Various states and local government authorities have enacted or promulgated, or are considering enacting or promulgating, laws and regulations that would restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county, or other jurisdiction lines. In 1978, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that a law that restricts the importation of out-of-state solid waste was unconstitutional; however, states have attempted to distinguish proposed laws from those involved in and implicated by that ruling. In 1994, the Supreme Court ruled that a flow control law, which attempted to restrict solid waste from leaving its place of generation, imposed an impermissible burden upon interstate commerce, and, therefore, was unconstitutional. In 2007, the Supreme Court upheld the right of a local government to direct the flow of solid waste to a publicly owned waste facility. A number of county and other local jurisdictions have enacted ordinances or other regulations restricting the free movement of solid waste across jurisdictional boundaries. Other governments may enact similar regulations in the future. These regulations may, in some cases, cause a decline in volumes of waste delivered to our landfills or transfer stations and may increase our costs of disposal, thereby adversely affecting our operations. Liabilities Established for Landfill and Environmental Costs. We have established liabilities for landfill and environmental costs, which include landfill site final capping, closure and post-closure costs. We periodically reassess such costs based on various methods and assumptions regarding landfill airspace and the technical requirements of Subtitle D of RCRA, and we adjust our rates used to expense final capping, closure and post-closure costs accordingly. Based on current information and regulatory requirements, we believe that our liabilities recorded for such landfill and environmental expenditures are adequate. However, environmental laws may change, and we cannot assure you that our recorded liabilities will be adequate to cover requirements under existing or new environmental laws and regulations, future changes or interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or adverse environmental conditions previously unknown to us. Liability Insurance and Bonding The nature of our business exposes us to the risk of liabilities arising out of our operations, including possible damages to the environment. Such potential liabilities could involve, for example, claims for remediation costs, personal injury, property damage and damage to the environment in cases where we may be held 14 Table of Contents responsible for the escape of harmful materials; claims of employees, customers or third parties for personal injury or property damage occurring in the course of our operations; or claims alleging negligence or other wrongdoing in the planning or performance of work. We could also be subject to fines and civil and criminal penalties in connection with alleged violations of regulatory requirements. Because of the nature and scope of the possible environmental damages, liabilities imposed in environmental litigation can be significant. Our solid waste operations have third party environmental liability insurance with limits in excess of those required by permit regulations, subject to certain limitations and exclusions. However, we cannot assure you that such environmental liability insurance would be adequate, in scope or amount, in the event of a major loss, nor can we assure you that we would continue to carry excess environmental liability insurance should market conditions in the insurance industry make such coverage costs prohibitive. We have general liability, vehicle liability, employment practices liability, pollution liability, directors and officers’ liability, workers’ compensation and employer’s liability coverage, as well as umbrella liability policies to provide excess coverage over the underlying limits contained in these primary policies. We also carry property insurance. Although we try to operate safely and prudently and we have, subject to limitations and exclusions, substantial liability insurance, we cannot assure you that we will not be exposed to uninsured liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our insurance programs for workers’ compensation, general liability, vehicle liability and employee-related health care benefits are effectively self-insured. Claims in excess of self-insurance levels are insured subject to the excess policy limits and exclusions. Accruals are based on claims filed and actuarial estimates of claims development and claims incurred but not reported. Due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we have experienced, and may experience in the future, increased self-insurance retention levels and increased premiums. As we assume more risk for self-insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our self-insurance reserves and expense. In the normal course of business, we post performance bonds, insurance policies, letters of credit, or cash or marketable securities deposits in connection with municipal residential collection contracts, the operation, closure or post-closure of landfills, environmental remediation, environmental permits, and business licenses and permits as a financial guarantee of our performance. To date, we have satisfied financial responsibility requirements by making cash or marketable securities deposits or by obtaining bank letters of credit, insurance policies or surety bonds. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 31,000 full-time employees, approximately 27% of whom were covered by collective bargaining agreements. From time to time, our operating locations may experience union organizing efforts. We have not historically experienced any significant work stoppages. We currently have no disputes or bargaining circumstances that we believe could cause significant disruptions in our business. Our management believes that we have good relations with our employees. Availability of Reports and Other Information Our corporate website is http://www.republicservices.com. We make available on this website, free of charge, access to our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A and amendments to those materials filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. We make such materials available as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically submit them to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our corporate website also contains our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics and Charters of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Audit Committee and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. In addition, the SEC website is http://www.sec.gov. The SEC makes available on this website, free of charge, reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the SEC. Information on our website or the SEC website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements under Item 5.05 of 15 Table of Contents Form 8-K and applicable New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules regarding amendments to or waivers of our Code of Ethics by posting this information on our website at www.republicservices.com. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking information about us that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for “forward-looking statements” provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as “expect,” “will,” “may,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “estimate,” “project,” “intend,” “should,” “can,” “likely,” “could” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include statements about the expected benefits of the merger, our plans, strategies and prospects. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. These statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of our management and are subject to risk and uncertainties, including the risks set forth below in these risk factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. In light of these risks, uncertainties, assumptions and factors, the results anticipated by the forward-looking statements discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not occur. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, we undertake no obligation to update or publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. We have substantial indebtedness, which may limit our financial flexibility. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $7.4 billion in principal value of debt and capital leases outstanding. This amount of indebtedness and our debt service requirements may limit our financial flexibility to access additional capital and make capital expenditures and other investments in our business, to withstand economic downturns and interest rate increases, to plan for or react to changes in our business and our industry, and to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants of our debt instruments. Further, our ability to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in our debt instruments may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events that are beyond our control. If we do not comply with these covenants and restrictions, we may be required to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing dividends, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of our existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. The downturn in the U.S. economy may continue to have an adverse impact on our operating results. A weak economy generally results in decreases in the volumes of waste generated. In 2009, weakness in the U.S. economy had a negative effect on our revenue, operating results and operating cash flows. The current and previous economic slowdowns have negatively impacted the portion of our collection business servicing the manufacturing and construction industries and our proceeds from sales of recycled commodities. As a result of the global economic crisis, we may experience the negative effects of increased competitive pricing pressure and customer turnover as well. We cannot assure you that worsening economic conditions or a prolonged or recurring recession will not have a significant adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, we cannot assure you that an improvement in economic conditions will result in an immediate, or any, improvement in our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The downturn in the U.S. economy may expose us to credit risk for amounts due from governmental agencies, large national accounts and others. The weak U.S. economy has reduced the amount of taxes collected by various governmental agencies. We provide services to a number of these agencies including numerous municipalities. These governmental agencies may suffer financial difficulties resulting from a decrease in tax revenue and may ultimately be 16 Table of Contents unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. In addition, the weak economy may cause other customers, including our large national accounts, to suffer financial difficulties and ultimately to be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. This could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The downturn in the U.S. economy and in the financial markets could expose us to counter-party risk associated with our derivatives. To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in various commodities and interest rates, we have entered into a number of derivative agreements. These derivative agreements require us or the counter-party to such agreements to make payments to the other party if the price of certain commodities or interest rates vary from a specified amount. A continued downturn in the U.S. economy or in the financial markets could adversely impact the financial stability of the counter-parties with which we do business, potentially limiting their ability to fulfill their obligations under our derivative agreements. This could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The waste industry is highly competitive and includes competitors that may have greater financial and operational resources, flexibility to reduce prices and other competitive advantages that could make it difficult for us to compete effectively. We principally compete with large national waste management companies, municipalities and numerous regional and local companies for collection and disposal accounts. Competition for collection accounts is primarily based on price and the quality of services. Competition for disposal business is primarily based on disposal costs, geographic location and quality of operations. Some of our competitors may have greater financial and operational resources than us. Many counties and municipalities that operate their own waste collection and disposal facilities have the benefits of tax revenue or tax-exempt financing. Our ability to obtain solid waste volume for our landfills may also be limited by the fact that some major collection companies also own or operate landfills to which they send their waste. In markets in which we do not own or operate a landfill, our collection operations may operate at a disadvantage to fully integrated competitors. As a result of these factors, we may have difficulty competing effectively from time to time or in certain markets. If we were to lower prices to address these competitive issues, it could negatively impact our revenue growth and profitability. Price increases may not be adequate to offset the impact of increased costs and may cause us to lose volume. We seek to secure price increases necessary to offset increased costs (including fuel and environmental costs), to improve operating margins and to obtain adequate returns on our substantial investments in assets such as our landfills. From time to time, our competitors may reduce their prices in an effort to expand their market share. Contractual, general economic or market-specific conditions may also limit our ability to raise prices. As a result, we may be unable to offset increases in costs, improve our operating margins and obtain adequate investment returns through price increases. We may also lose volume to lower-cost competitors. Increases in the cost of fuel or petrochemicals will increase our operating expenses, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to recover fuel or oil cost increases from our customers. We depend on fuel to run our collection and transfer trucks and other equipment used for collection, transfer, and disposal. We buy fuel in the open market. Fuel prices are unpredictable and can fluctuate significantly based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil and gas producers, supply and demand for oil and gas, war, terrorism and unrest in oil-producing countries, and regional production patterns. We may not be able to offset such volatility through fuel surcharges. For example, our fuel costs were $349.8 million in 2009, representing 7.2% of our cost of operations compared to $235.3 million in 2008, representing 9.7% of our cost of operations. This decrease in fuel costs as a percent of our cost of operations primarily reflects a decrease in the price of fuel. 17 Table of Contents In order to manage our exposure to volatility in fuel prices, we have entered into multiple swap agreements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties if the price of fuel varies from a specified amount. However, we do not hedge our entire fuel usage. During 2009, only 6.4% of our fuel purchases were hedged. Over the last several years, regulations have been adopted mandating the reduction of vehicle tail pipe emissions and, in October 2009, the EPA indicated it will establish the first U.S. standards for greenhouse gas emissions from automobiles. The regulations could affect the type of fuel our trucks use and could materially increase the cost and consumption of our fuel. Our operations also require the use of products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. An increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. We are also susceptible to increases in indirect fuel surcharges from our vendors. Fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities that we sell to customers may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We process recyclable materials such as paper, cardboard, plastics, aluminum and other metals for sale to third parties. Our results of operations may be affected by changing prices or market requirements for recyclable materials. The resale and purchase prices of, and market demand for, recyclable materials can be volatile due to changes in economic conditions and numerous other factors beyond our control. These fluctuations may affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Adverse weather conditions may limit our operations and increase the costs of collection and disposal. Our collection and landfill operations could be adversely impacted by extended periods of inclement weather, or by increased severity of weather and climate extremes resulting in the future from climate change, any of which could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), interfere with collection and landfill operations, delay the development of landfill capacity or reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers. In addition, adverse weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect our operating results in the affected regions during those periods. We currently have matters pending with the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”), which could result in large cash expenditures and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows. We are currently under examination by the IRS with regard to Allied’s federal income tax returns for tax years 2007 and 2008, and Allied’s 2000 through 2006 federal income tax returns are at appeals. Republic is under audit for its 2007 and 2008 federal income tax returns, and under examination for its 2008 federal income tax return. During its examination of Allied’s 2002 tax year, the IRS asserted that a 2002 redemption of four partnership interests in waste-to-energy businesses should have been recharacterized as disguised sale transactions. This issue is currently before the Appeals Division of the IRS. The Company believes its position is supported by relevant technical authorities and strong business purpose and we intend to vigorously defend our position on this matter. The potential tax and interest through December 31, 2009 (to the extent unpaid) have been fully reserved in our consolidated balance sheet. A disallowance would not materially affect our consolidated results of operations; however, a deficiency payment would adversely impact our cash flow in the period the payment was made. The accrual of additional interest charges through the time this matter is resolved will affect our consolidated results of operations. In addition, the successful assertion by the IRS of penalty and penalty-related interest in connection with this matter could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, during its examination of Allied’s 2000 through 2003 tax years, the IRS proposed that certain landfill costs be allocated to the collection and control of methane gas that is naturally emitted from landfills. The IRS’ position is that the methane gas emitted by a landfill constitutes a joint product resulting from landfill operations and, therefore, associated costs should not be expensed until the methane gas is sold or otherwise disposed. We believe we have several meritorious defenses, including the fact that methane gas is 18 Table of Contents not actively produced for sale by us but rather arises naturally in the context of providing disposal services. Therefore, we believe that the resolution of this issue will not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. For additional information on these matters, see Note 10, Income Taxes, to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other matters may also arise in the course of tax audits that could adversely impact our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may be unable to execute our financial strategy. Our ability to execute our financial strategy depends on our ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our senior debt. The credit rating process is contingent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our investment grade ratings in the future. Our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms may be adversely affected should we fail to maintain investment grade ratings. Our financial strategy is also dependent on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our existing business, fund internal growth, acquire other solid waste businesses, pay dividends, reduce indebtedness and minimize borrowings, and take other actions to enhance shareholder value. We cannot assure you that: we will be successful in executing our broad-based pricing program; we will generate sufficient cash flow to execute our financial strategy; we will be able to pay cash dividends at our present rate, that we will be able to increase the amount of such dividends, or that we will be able to reinstitute our share repurchase program. A downgrade in our bond ratings could adversely affect our liquidity by increasing the cost of debt and financial assurance instruments. While downgrades of our bond ratings may not have an immediate impact on our cost of debt or liquidity, they may impact our cost of debt and liquidity over the near to medium term. If the rating agencies downgrade our debt, this may increase the interest rate we must pay to issue new debt, and it may even make it prohibitively expensive for us to issue new debt. If our debt ratings are downgraded, future access to financial assurance markets at a reasonable cost, or at all, also may be adversely impacted. The solid waste industry is a capital-intensive industry and the amount we spend on capital expenditures may exceed current expectations, which could require us to obtain additional funding for our operations or impair our ability to grow our business. Our ability to remain competitive and to grow and expand our operations largely depends on our cash flow from operations and access to capital. If our capital efficiency programs are unable to offset the impact of inflation and business growth, it may be necessary to increase the amount we spend. Additionally, if we make acquisitions or further expand our operations, the amount we expend on capital, capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation expenditures will increase. Our cash needs also will increase if the expenditures for capping, closure, post-closure and remediation activities increase above our current estimates, which may occur over a long period due to changes in federal, state or local government requirements and other factors beyond our control. Increases in expenditures would negatively impact our cash flows. Over the last several years, regulations have been adopted mandating the reduction of vehicle tail pipe emissions. These regulations have caused some increases in the costs of the collection vehicles we buy. The EPA recently has indicated it intends to adopt further regulations addressing greenhouse gas emissions from automobiles. As a result, we could experience an increase in capital costs. This also could cause an increase in vehicle operating costs or a reduction in operating efficiency. We may reduce the number of vehicles we purchase until manufacturers adopt the new standards to increase efficiency. 19 Table of Contents We may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. We cannot assure you that we will successfully obtain or maintain the permits we require to operate our business because permits to operate non-hazardous solid waste landfills and to expand the permitted capacity of existing landfills have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. Permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. These permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. Local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. Responding to these challenges has, at times, increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities. In addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new facilities, maintaining permits for our facilities or expanding existing facilities. Our failure to obtain the required permits to operate our non-hazardous solid waste landfills could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we may have to dispose collected waste at landfills operated by our competitors or haul the waste long distances at a higher cost to one of our landfills, either of which could significantly increase our waste disposal costs. The waste industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and existing or future regulations may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures. If we inadequately accrue for landfill capping, closure and post-closure costs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. A landfill must be closed and capped, and post-closure maintenance commenced, once the permitted capacity of the landfill is reached and additional capacity is not authorized. We have significant financial obligations relating to capping, closure and post-closure costs at our existing owned or operated landfills, and will have material financial obligations with respect to any future owned or operated landfills. We establish accruals for the estimated costs associated with capping, closure and post-closure financial obligations. We could underestimate such accruals, and our financial obligations for capping, closure or post-closure costs could exceed the amount accrued or amounts otherwise receivable pursuant to trust funds established for this purpose. Such a shortfall could result in significant unanticipated charges to income. Additionally, if a landfill is required to be closed earlier than expected or its remaining airspace is reduced for any other reason, the accruals for capping, closure and post-closure could be required to be accelerated, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We cannot assure you that we will continue to operate our landfills at current volumes due to the use of alternatives to landfill disposal caused by state requirements or voluntary initiatives. Most of the states in which we operate landfills require counties and municipalities to formulate comprehensive plans to reduce the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills through waste planning, composting and recycling, or other programs. Some state and local governments mandate waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of wastes, such as yard waste, at landfills. Although such actions are useful in protecting our environment, these actions, as well as voluntary private initiatives by customers to reduce waste or seek disposal alternatives, have and may in the future reduce the volume of waste going to landfills in certain areas. If this occurs, we cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our landfills at their current volumes or charge current prices for landfill disposal services due to the decrease in demand for such services. 20 Table of Contents The possibility of landfill and transfer station site development projects, expansion projects or pending acquisitions not being completed or certain other events could result in a material charge to income. We capitalize certain expenditures relating to development, expansion and other projects. If a facility or operation is permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, or a development or expansion project is not completed or is determined to be impaired, we will charge any unamortized capitalized expenditures to income relating to such facility or project that we are unable to recover through sale, transfer or otherwise. In future periods, we may incur charges against earnings in accordance with this policy, or other events may cause impairments. Such charges could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to costly environmental regulations and flow-control regulations that may affect our operating margins, restrict our operations and subject us to additional liability. Complying with laws and regulations governing the use, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and materials, air quality, water quality and the remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances is costly. Laws and regulations often require us to enhance or replace our equipment and to modify landfill operations or initiate final closure of a landfill. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement price increases sufficient to offset the costs of complying with these laws and regulations. In addition, environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase expenditures for capping, closure and post-closure, and environmental and remediation activities at solid waste facilities and obligate us to spend sums in addition to those presently accrued for such purposes. Our collection, transfer, and landfill operations are, and may in the future continue to be, affected by state or local laws or regulations that restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county or other jurisdictional lines. Such laws and regulations could negatively affect our operations, resulting in declines in landfill volumes and increased costs of alternate disposal. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental regulations, we incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties who may allege we are in violation of our permits and applicable environmental laws and regulations, or who assert claims alleging environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. As a result, we may be required to pay fines or implement corrective measures, or we may have our permits and licenses modified or revoked. A significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license, or the imposition of a significant fine could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We establish accruals for our estimates of the costs associated with our environmental obligations. We could underestimate such accruals and remediation costs could exceed amounts accrued. Such shortfalls could result in significant unanticipated charges to income. Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet estimate. Efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases (GHGs), to ameliorate the effect of climate change, continue to advance on the federal, regional, and state level. Our landfill operations emit methane, identified as a GHG. In June 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill that would regulate GHGs comprehensively. While the centerpiece of that bill would be a GHG emission allowance cap-and-trade system, landfills would not be compelled to hold allowances for their GHG emissions. Rather, they would be subject to certain further emission controls to be determined through administrative rule-making. Senate passage of counterpart legislation, and whether such legislation would treat landfills in the same manner, is uncertain. Should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it to impose costs on our operations, the materiality of which we cannot predict. Absent comprehensive federal legislation to control GHG emissions, EPA is moving ahead administratively under its existing Clean Air Act authority. In October 2009, EPA published a Proposed Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule (“PSD tailoring rule”). The proposed rule would set new thresholds for GHG emissions that define when Clean Air Act permits would be required and 21 Table of Contents would “tailor” these programs to limit which facilities would be required to obtain permits. EPA’s legal authority to “tailor” this rule in the manner it proposed has been challenged. If finalized as proposed, many of our landfills would be subject to the PSD tailoring rule, which could require permit amendments and additional emission controls. In December 2009, EPA finalized its finding that six GHGs endanger public health. While EPA made its finding in the context of regulating air emissions from motor vehicles, other Clean Air Act provisions appear to compel EPA to make comparable findings for stationary sources, such as landfills. We cannot predict the requirements or effective date of stationary source rules that might apply to landfills as a result of this endangerment finding and, accordingly, we cannot assure you that further developments in this area will not have a material effect on our landfill operations or on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may have potential environmental liabilities that are not covered by our insurance. Changes in insurance markets also may impact our financial results. We may incur liabilities for the deterioration of the environment as a result of our operations. We maintain high deductibles for our environmental liability insurance coverage. If we were to incur substantial liability for environmental damage, our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such liability. This could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Also, due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we may experience future increases in self-insurance levels as a result of increased retention levels and increased premiums. As we assume more risk for self-insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our self-insurance reserves and expense. Despite our efforts, we may incur additional hazardous substances liability in excess of amounts presently known and accrued. We are a potentially responsible party at many sites under CERCLA, which provides for the remediation of contaminated facilities and imposes strict, joint and several liability for the cost of remediation on current owners and operators of a facility at which there has been a release or a threatened release of a “hazardous substance,” on parties who were site owners and operators at the time hazardous substances were disposed of, and on persons who arrange for the disposal of such substances at the facility (i.e., generators of the waste and transporters who selected the disposal site). Hundreds of substances are defined as “hazardous” under CERCLA and their presence, even in minute amounts, can result in substantial liability. Notwithstanding our efforts to comply with applicable regulations and to avoid transporting and receiving hazardous substances, we may have additional liability under CERCLA or similar laws in excess of our current reserves because such substances may be present in waste collected by us or disposed of in our landfills, or in waste collected, transported or disposed of in the past by companies we have acquired. Actual costs for these liabilities could be significantly greater than amounts presently accrued for these purposes, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. We are, and from time to time become, involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business. Many of these matters raise difficult and complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties and complexities. The timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings is uncertain. Additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 22 Table of Contents We may experience difficulties completing the integration of Allied’s business, and we may incur unexpected expenses in connection with that integration. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger with Allied will depend significantly on whether we can continue to integrate Allied’s business in an efficient and effective manner. The ongoing integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be fully realized. We may not be able to accomplish the integration process smoothly, successfully or on a timely basis. Any inability of our management to successfully and timely integrate the operations of the two companies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not realize the anticipated synergies and related benefits from the merger with Allied fully or within the timing anticipated. We believe our merger with Allied has been and will continue to be beneficial to our stockholders as a result of the actual and anticipated synergies resulting from the combined operations. While we are currently ahead of our original timeline, we may not be able to achieve the anticipated operating and cost synergies or the long-term strategic benefits of the merger fully or within the timing anticipated. For example, elimination of duplicative costs may not be fully achieved or may take longer than anticipated. For at least the first year after an acquisition, and possibly longer, the benefits from the acquisition will be offset by the costs incurred in integrating the businesses and operations. The inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated synergies or other benefits of the merger, or our encountering unexpected costs or delays in the integration process (which may delay the timing of such synergies or other benefits), could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be unable to manage our growth effectively. Our growth strategy places significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources. To continue our growth, we may need to add administrative and other personnel, and will need to make additional investments in operations and systems. We cannot assure you that we will be able to find and train qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or expand our operations and systems to the extent, and in the time, required. We may be unable to execute our acquisition growth strategy. Our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and acquire desirable acquisition candidates as well as our ability to successfully consolidate acquired operations into our business. The consolidation of our operations with those of acquired companies may present significant challenges to our management. In addition, competition among our competitors for acquisition candidates may prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. As such, we cannot assure you that: • desirable acquisition candidates exist or will be identified; • we will be able to acquire any of the candidates identified; • we will effectively consolidate companies we acquire; or • any acquisitions will be profitable or accretive to our earnings. If any of the aforementioned factors force us to alter our growth strategy, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. Businesses we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities. In pursuing our acquisition strategy, our due diligence investigations of the acquisition candidates may fail to discover certain undisclosed liabilities of the acquisition candidates. If we acquire a company having undisclosed liabilities such as environmental, remediation or contractual, as a successor owner we may be responsible for such undisclosed liabilities. We expect to try to minimize our exposure to such liabilities by 23 Table of Contents conducting due diligence, by obtaining indemnification from each of the sellers of the acquired companies, by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price as security for the indemnification and by acquiring only specified assets. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain indemnification or that any indemnification obtained will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any undisclosed liabilities arising from our acquisitions. Our consolidated financial statements are based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and necessarily include amounts based on estimates and assumptions made by management. Actual results could differ from these amounts. Significant items requiring management to make subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain include the carrying value of long-lived assets, the depletion and amortization of landfill development costs, accruals for final capping, closure and post-closure costs, valuation allowances for accounts receivable and deferred tax assets, liabilities for potential litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities for environmental remediation, employee benefit and pension plans, deferred taxes, uncertain tax positions and self-insurance. We cannot assure you that the liabilities recorded for landfill and environmental costs will be adequate to cover the requirements of existing environmental regulations, future changes to or interpretations of existing regulations, or the identification of adverse environmental conditions previously unknown to management. The introduction of new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our results of operations. Complying with new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations in future periods. We may be subject to workforce influences, including work stoppages, which could increase our operating costs and disrupt our operations. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 27% of our workforce was represented by various local labor unions. If our unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and an increase in our operating costs, which could have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if a greater percentage of our workforce becomes unionized, our business and financial results could be materially and adversely impacted due to the potential for increased operating costs. Our obligation to fund multi-employer pension plans to which we contribute may have an adverse impact on us. We contribute to at least 25 multi-employer pension plans covering at least 17% of our current employees. We do not administer these plans and generally are not represented on the boards of trustees of these plans. The Pension Protection Act enacted in 2006 (the PPA) requires under-funded pension plans to improve their funding ratios. Based on the information available to us, we believe that some of the multi-employer plans to which we contribute are either “critical” or “endangered” as those terms are defined in the PPA. We cannot determine at this time the amount of additional funding, if any, we may be required to make to these plans and, therefore, have not recorded any related liabilities. However, plan assessments could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows for a given period. Furthermore, under current law, upon the termination of a multi-employer pension plan, or in the event of a withdrawal by us (which we consider from time to time) or a mass withdrawal of contributing employers (each, a “Withdrawal Event”), we would be required to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the plan’s unfunded vested liabilities. We cannot assure you that there will not be a Withdrawal Event with respect to any of the multi-employer pension plans to which we contribute or that, in the event of such a Withdrawal Event, the amounts we would be 24 Table of Contents required to contribute would not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The costs of providing for pension benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in pension fund values and fluctuating actuarial assumptions, and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. We sponsor a defined benefit pension plan which is funded with trustee assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities. Our costs for providing such benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in the market value of plan assets. Our pension expenses and related funding requirements are also subject to various actuarial calculations and assumptions, which may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, interest rates and other factors. A significant increase in our pension obligations and funding requirements could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. Our future success depends on the continued contributions of several key employees and officers. The loss of the services of key employees and officers, whether such loss is through resignation or other causes, or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 