ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Business Risks We caution the reader that the following business risks and those risks described elsewhere in this report and in our other Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, filings, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expectations stated in our forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Industry Changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies could limit the sources and amounts of our revenues, increase our costs of doing business, decrease our profitability and materially and adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to extensive regulation in the United States, primarily at the federal level, including regulation by the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, by the Department of Labor under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or ERISA, as well as regulation by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., or NASD, and state regulators. The mutual funds managed by Gabelli Funds, LLC and Gabelli Advisers, Inc. are registered with the SEC as investment companies under the Investment Company Act. The Investment Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on investment advisors, including record-keeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. The Investment Company Act imposes similar obligations, as well as additional detailed operational requirements, on registered investment companies and investment advisors. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, censure, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our registration as an investment advisor or broker-dealer. Industry regulations are designed to protect our clients and investors in our funds and other third parties who deal with us and to ensure the integrity of the financial markets. They are not designed to protect our stockholders. Changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies could limit the sources and amounts of our revenues, increase our costs of doing business, decrease our profitability and materially and adversely affect our business. In response to scandals in the financial services industry regarding late trading, market timing and selective disclosure of portfolio information, various legislative and regulatory proposals are pending in or before, or have been adopted by, the U.S. Congress, the legislatures in states in which we conduct operations and the various regulatory agencies that supervise our operations, including the SEC. These proposals, to the extent enacted or adopted, could have a substantial impact on the regulation and operation of registered funds, investment advisors and broker-dealers and could adversely affect our assets under management, revenues and net income. Additionally, the SEC, the NASD and other regulators, as well as Congress, are investigating certain practices within our industry. These investigations could lead to further legislative and regulatory proposals that, if enacted or adopted, could adversely affect our business. To the extent we are forced to compete on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure. The investment management business is highly competitive and has relatively low barriers to entry. To the extent we are forced to compete on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure. Although our investment management fees vary from product to product, historically we have competed primarily on the performance of our products and not on the level of our investment management fees relative to those of our competitors. In recent years, however, there has been a trend toward lower fees in the investment management industry. In order to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to continue to provide clients with investment returns and service that make investors willing to pay our fees. In addition, the board of directors of each mutual fund managed by Gabelli Funds, LLC and Gabelli Advisers, Inc. must make certain findings as to the reasonableness of its fees. We cannot be assured that we will succeed in providing investment returns and service that will allow us to maintain our current fee structure. Fee reductions on existing or future new business could have an adverse effect on our profit margins and results of operations. 29 We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from contracts that may be terminated on short notice. A substantial majority of all of our revenues are derived from investment management agreements and distribution arrangements. Investment management agreements and distribution arrangements with the Mutual Funds are terminable without penalty on 60 days' notice (subject to certain additional procedural requirements in the case of termination by a Mutual Fund) and must be specifically approved at least annually, as required by law. Such annual renewal requires, among other things, approval by the disinterested members of each Mutual Fund's board of directors or trustees. Investment advisory agreements with the Separate Accounts are typically terminable by the client without penalty on 30 days' notice or less. Any failure to renew or termination of a significant number of these agreements or arrangements would have a material adverse effect on us. Investors in the open-end funds can redeem their investments in these funds at any time without prior notice, which could adversely affect our earnings. Open-end fund investors may redeem their investments in those funds at any time without prior notice. Investors may reduce the aggregate amount of assets under management for any number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates and financial market performance. In a declining stock market, the pace of mutual fund redemptions could accelerate. Poor performance relative to other asset management firms tends to result in decreased purchases of mutual fund shares and increased redemptions of mutual fund shares. The redemption of investments in mutual funds managed by Gabelli Funds, LLC or Gabelli Advisers, Inc. would adversely affect our revenues, which are substantially dependent upon the assets under management in our funds. If redemptions of investments in mutual funds caused our revenues to decline, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Regulatory developments designed to increase oversight of hedge funds may adversely affect our business. The SEC has adopted a rule that requires registration of many hedge fund managers. Registration under the rule requires hedge fund managers to adopt certain compliance controls in order to ensure compliance with applicable securities laws and permits increased oversight of hedge fund managers by the SEC. Any regulations applicable to hedge funds that may be adopted pursuant to this rule could have an impact on our operations and may adversely affect our hedge fund business and decrease our future income. A decline in the prices of securities would lead to a decline in our assets under management, revenues and earnings. Substantially all of our revenues are determined by the amount of our assets under management. Under our investment advisory contracts with our clients, the investment advisory fees we receive are typically based on the market value of assets under management. In addition, we receive asset-based distribution and/or service fees with respect to the open-end funds managed by Gabelli Funds, LLC or Gabelli Advisers, Inc. over time pursuant to distribution plans adopted under provisions of Rule 12b-1 under the Investment Company Act. Rule 12b-1 fees typically are based on the market value of assets under management and represented approximately 7.7% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 8.2% and 7.4% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004, respectively. Accordingly, a decline in the prices of securities generally may cause our revenues and net income to decline by either causing the value of our assets under management to decrease, which would result in lower investment advisory and Rule 12b-1 fees, or causing our clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments they perceive to offer greater opportunity or lower risk, which would also result in lower fees. The securities markets are highly volatile, and securities prices may increase or decrease for many reasons, including economic and political events and acts of terrorism beyond our control. If a decline in securities prices caused our revenues to decline, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. 30 Catastrophic and unpredictable events could have a material adverse effect on our business. A terrorist attack, war, power failure, cyber-attack, natural disaster or other catastrophic or unpredictable event could adversely affect our future revenues, expenses and earnings by: interrupting our normal business operations; sustaining employee casualties, including loss of our key executives; requiring substantial expenditures and expenses to repair, replace and restore normal business operations; and reducing investor confidence. We have a disaster recovery plan to address certain contingencies but we cannot be assured that this plan will be sufficient in responding or ameliorating the effects of all disaster scenarios. If our employees or vendors we rely upon for support in a catastrophic event are unable to respond adequately or in a timely manner, we may lose clients resulting in a decrease in assets under management with a material adverse effect on revenues and net income. Risks Related to Our Business Control by Mr. Gabelli of a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock may give rise to conflicts of interests. Since our initial public offering in 1999, Mr. Gabelli, through his majority ownership of GGCP has beneficially owned all of our outstanding class B common stock, representing approximately over 95% of the combined voting power of all classes of our voting stock. As long as Mr. Gabelli indirectly beneficially owns a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock, he will have the ability to elect all of the members of our Board of Directors and thereby control our management and affairs, including determinations with respect to acquisitions, dispositions, borrowings, issuances of common stock or other securities, and the declaration and payment of dividends on the common stock. In addition, Mr. Gabelli will be able to determine the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders for approval and will be able to cause or prevent a change in control of our company. As a result of Mr. Gabelli's control, none of our agreements with Mr. Gabelli and other companies controlled by him have been arrived at through "arm's-length" negotiations, although we believe that the parties endeavor to implement market-based terms. There can be no assurance that we would not have received more favorable terms from an unaffiliated party. In order to minimize conflicts and potential competition with our investment management business, in 1999 and as part of our initial public offering, Mr. Gabelli entered into a written agreement to limit his activities outside of GBL. Mr. Gabelli has undertaken that so long as he is associated with GBL or for a period of five years from our initial public offering, whichever is longer, he will not provide investment management services for compensation other than in his capacity as an officer or employee of GBL except for (a) those investment funds and accounts managed by Mr. Gabelli outside the company under performance fee arrangements, but only to the extent that any such investment fund or account consists solely of one or more of the persons who were investors as of the date of the consummation of the initial public offering or such additional investors to the extent that all revenues attributable to such additional investors are paid to GBL, and (b) successor funds and accounts which serve no investors other than those in the funds and accounts referred to in (a) or those investors' successors, heirs, donees or immediate families, which funds and accounts operate according to an investment style similar to such other accounts or funds, which style we did not use at the time of our initial public offering, and which are subject to performance fee arrangements. To the extent that such activities are not prohibited under this agreement, Mr. Gabelli intends to continue devoting time to activities outside GBL, including managing his own assets and his family's assets, managing or controlling companies in other industries and managing assets for other investors through the permissible accounts, which are the funds and accounts managed outside GBL that are permitted under the agreement between us and Mr. Gabelli (these assets were approximately $71.3 million in February 1999 and approximately $98.3 million as the end of 2005). These activities may present conflicts of interest or compete with the company. Our Certificate of Incorporation expressly provides in general that Mr. Gabelli, members of his immediate family who are officers or directors of GBL and entities controlled by such persons have an obligation to present corporate opportunities to us and resolve conflicts of interest through one of the processes described in the Certificate of Incorporation, which include independent director or independent shareholder approval. 31 We will not derive any income from activities outside GBL by Mr. Gabelli (except as described above) or members of his immediate family who are officers or directors of the company and may not be able to take advantage of business and investment opportunities that could later prove to be beneficial to us and our shareholders, either because such opportunities were not company opportunities at the time they arose or because we did not pursue them. Where a conflict of interest involves a transaction between Mr. Gabelli or members of his immediate family who are officers or directors of GBL or their affiliates and the company, there can be no assurance that we would not receive more favorable terms if it were dealing with an unaffiliated party, although we will seek to achieve market-based terms in all such transactions. We depend on Mario J. Gabelli and other key personnel. We are dependent on the efforts of Mr. Gabelli, our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and the primary portfolio manager for a significant majority of our assets under management. The loss of Mr. Gabelli's services would have a material adverse effect on us. In addition to Mr. Gabelli, our future success depends to a substantial degree on our ability to retain and attract other qualified personnel to conduct our investment management business. The market for qualified portfolio managers is extremely competitive and has grown more so in recent periods as the investment management industry has experienced growth. We anticipate that it will be necessary for us to add portfolio managers and investment analysts as we further diversify our investment products and strategies. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. In addition, our investment professionals and senior marketing personnel have direct contact with our Separate Account clients, which can lead to strong client relationships. The loss of these personnel could jeopardize our relationships with certain Separate Account clients, and result in the loss of such accounts. The loss of key management professionals or the inability to recruit and retain sufficient portfolio managers and marketing personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Potential adverse effects on our performance prospects from a decline in the performance of the securities markets. Our results of operations are affected by many economic factors, including the performance of the securities markets. During the 1990s, unusually favorable and sustained performance of the U.S. securities markets, and the U.S. equity market, in particular, attracted substantial inflows of new investments in these markets and has contributed to significant market appreciation which has, in turn, led to an increase in our assets under management and revenues. At December 31, 2005, approximately 97% of our assets under management were invested in portfolios consisting primarily of equity securities. More recently, the securities markets in general have experienced significant volatility, with declines in value experienced during the years 2001 and 2002. Any decline in the securities markets, in general, and the equity markets, in particular, could reduce our assets under management and consequently reduce our revenues. In addition, any such decline in the equity markets, failure of these markets to sustain their prior levels of growth, or continued short-term volatility in these markets could result in investors withdrawing from the equity markets or decreasing their rate of investment, either of which would be likely to adversely affect us. From time to time, a relatively high proportion of the assets we manage may be concentrated in particular industry sectors. A general decline in the performance of securities in those industry sectors could have an adverse effect on our assets under management and revenues. Possibility of losses associated with proprietary investment activities. We may from time to time make or maintain large proprietary investment positions in securities. Market fluctuations and other factors may result in substantial losses in our proprietary accounts which could reduce our ability or willingness to make new investments or impair our credit ratings. 32 Future investment performance could reduce revenues and other income. Success in the investment management and mutual fund businesses is dependent on investment performance as well as distribution and client servicing. Good performance generally stimulates sales of our investment products and tends to keep withdrawals and redemptions low, which generates higher management fees (which are based on the amount of assets under management). Conversely, relatively poor performance tends to result in decreased sales, increased withdrawals and redemptions in the case of the open-end Mutual Funds, and in the loss of Separate Accounts, with corresponding decreases in revenues to us. Many analysts of the mutual fund industry believe that investment performance is the most important factor for the growth of no-load Mutual Funds, such as those we offer. Failure of our investment products to perform well could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on us. Loss of significant Separate Accounts could affect our revenues. We had approximately 1,800 Separate Accounts as of December 31, 2005, of which the ten largest accounts generated approximately 23% of our total revenues during the year ended December 31, 2005. Loss of these accounts for any reason would have an adverse effect on our revenues. Notwithstanding performance, we have from time to time lost large Separate Accounts as a result of corporate mergers and restructurings, and we could continue to lose accounts under these or other circumstances. Our sources of revenue are subject to termination on short notice. A substantial majority of all of our revenues are derived from investment management agreements and distribution arrangements. Investment management agreements and distribution arrangements with the Mutual Funds are terminable without penalty on 60 days' notice (subject to certain additional procedural requirements in the case of termination by a Mutual Fund) and must be specifically approved at least annually, as required by law. Such annual renewal requires, among other things, approval by the disinterested members of each Mutual Fund's board of directors or trustees. Investment advisory agreements with the Separate Accounts are typically terminable by the client without penalty on 30 days' notice or less. Any failure to renew or termination of a significant number of these agreements or arrangements would have a material adverse effect on us. We rely on third-party distribution programs. We have since 1996 experienced significant growth in sales of our open-end Mutual Funds through Third-Party Distribution Programs, which are programs sponsored by third-party intermediaries that offer their mutual fund customers a variety of competing products and administrative services. Most of the sales growth from our Third-Party Distribution Programs is from programs with no transaction fees payable by the customer, which we refer to as NTF Programs. Approximately $1.5 billion of our assets under management in the open-end Mutual Funds as of December 31, 2005 were obtained through NTF Programs. The cost of participating in Third-Party Distribution Programs is higher than our direct distribution costs, and it is anticipated that the cost of Third-Party Distribution Programs will increase in the future. Any increase would be likely to have an adverse effect on our profit margins and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Third-Party Distribution Programs will continue to distribute the Mutual Funds. At December 31, 2005, approximately 93.0% of the NTF Program net assets in the Gabelli and Westwood families of funds are attributable to two NTF Programs. The decision by these Third-Party Distribution Programs to discontinue distribution of the Mutual Funds, or a decision by us to withdraw one or more of the Mutual Funds from the programs, could have an adverse effect on our growth of assets under management. Possibility of losses associated with underwriting, trading and market-making activities. Our underwriting, trading and market-making activities are primarily conducted through our subsidiary, Gabelli & Company, Inc., both as principal and agent. Such activities subject our capital to significant risks of loss. The risks of loss include those resulting from ownership of securities, extension of credit, leverage, liquidity, counterparty failure to meet commitments, client fraud, employee errors, misconduct and fraud (including unauthorized transactions by traders), failures in connection with the processing of securities transactions and litigation. We have procedures and internal controls to address such risks but there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will prevent losses from occurring. 33 We may have liability as a general partner or otherwise with respect to our alternative investment products. Certain of our subsidiaries act as general partner for investment partnerships, including arbitrage, event-driven long/short, sector focused and merchant banking limited partnerships. As a general partner of these partnerships, we may be held liable for the partnerships' liabilities in excess of their ability to pay such liabilities. In addition, in certain circumstances, we may be liable as a control person for the acts of our investment partnerships. As of December 31, 2005, our assets under management included approximately $634 million in investment partnerships. A substantial adverse judgment or other liability with respect to our investment partnerships could have a material adverse effect on us. Operational risks may disrupt our businesses, result in regulatory action against us or limit our growth. We face operational risk arising from errors made in the execution, confirmation or settlement of transactions or from transactions not being properly recorded, evaluated or accounted for. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, transactions across markets in an efficient and accurate manner. Consequently, we rely heavily on our financial, accounting and other data processing systems. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. Dependence on information systems. We operate in an industry that is highly dependent on its information systems and technology. We outsource a significant portion of our information systems operations to third parties who are responsible for providing the management, maintenance and updating of such systems. There can be no assurance, however, that our information systems and technology will continue to be able to accommodate our growth, or that the cost of maintaining such outsourcing arrangements will not increase from its current level. Such a failure to accommodate growth, or an increase in costs related to these information systems, could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be able to refinance or have the funds necessary to repurchase our existing indebtedness. On August 10, 2001, we and certain of our affiliates entered into a note purchase agreement with Cascade Investment, L.L.C., pursuant to which Cascade purchased $100 million in principal amount of a convertible promissory note. Pursuant to the terms of the note, Cascade may require us, or upon a change in control or Mr. Gabelli ceasing to provide our predominant executive leadership, to repurchase the note (i.e., put option) at par plus accrued and unpaid interest on the note. In March 2005, we announced an agreement with Cascade to amend the terms of the note. The new terms extend the exercise date of Cascade's put option to September 15, 2006, reduce the principal of the convertible note to $50 million, effective April 1, 2005, and remove limitations on the issuance of additional debt. If Cascade exercises its right under the note to require us to repurchase the note, we may not be able to obtain new financing on similar terms to the note and may not have sufficient funds, or we may not be able to arrange financing on acceptable terms, to pay the repurchase price for the note. If we could not obtain sufficient cash to repurchase the note, we would be in default on our obligation under the note purchase agreement. Our 5.22% senior notes, consisting of approximately $82.3 million of principal, are due on February 17, 2007. We may not be able to obtain new financing on similar terms to the note and may not have sufficient funds, or we may not be able to arrange financing on acceptable terms, to pay the repurchase price for the note. 34 Our credit ratings affect our borrowing costs. Our borrowing costs and our access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. A reduction in our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets. We face exposure to litigation within our business. The volume of litigation against financial services firms and the amount of damages claimed has increased over the past several years. The types of claims that we may face are varied. For example, we may face claims against us for purchasing securities that are inconsistent with a client's investment objectives or guidelines, in connection with the operation of the Mutual Funds or arising from an employment dispute. The risk of litigation is difficult to assess or quantify, and may occur years after the activities or events at issue. Even if we prevail in a legal action brought against us, the costs alone of defending against the action could have a material adverse effect on us. Compliance failures and changes in regulation could adversely affect us. Our investment management activities are subject to client guidelines and our Mutual Fund business involves compliance with numerous investment, asset valuation, distribution and tax requirements. A failure to adhere to these guidelines or satisfy these requirements could result in losses which could be recovered by the client from us in certain circumstances. Although we have installed procedures and utilize the services of experienced administrators, accountants and lawyers to assist us in adhering to these guidelines and satisfying these requirements, and maintain insurance to protect ourselves in the case of client losses, there can be no assurance that such precautions or insurance will protect us from potential liabilities. Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation in the United States, including by the SEC and the NASD. We are also subject to the laws of non-U.S. jurisdictions and non-U.S. regulatory agencies or bodies. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our registration or any of our subsidiaries as an investment adviser or broker-dealer. Changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies could have a material adverse effect on us. Our reputation is critical to our success. Our reputation is critical to maintaining and developing relationships with our clients, Mutual Fund shareholders and third-party intermediaries. In recent years, there have been a number of well publicized cases involving fraud, conflicts of interest or other misconduct by individuals in the financial services industry. Misconduct by our staff, or even unsubstantiated allegations, could result not only in direct financial harm but also harm to our reputation, causing injury to the value of our brands and our ability to retain or attract assets under management. In addition, in certain circumstances, misconduct on the part of our clients or other parties could damage our reputation. Harm to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on us. We face strong competition from numerous and sometimes larger companies. We compete with numerous investment management companies, stock brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks, savings and loan associations and other financial institutions. Continuing consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors with greater financial resources and broader distribution channels than our own. Additionally, competing securities dealers whom we rely upon to distribute our mutual funds also sell their own proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our investment products. To the extent that existing or potential customers, including securities dealers, decide to invest in or distribute the products of our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenues and net income could decline. 35 Fee pressures could reduce our profit margins. There has been a trend toward lower fees in some segments of the investment management industry. In order for us to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to provide clients with investment returns and service that will encourage them to be willing to pay such fees. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current fee structure. Fee reductions on existing or future new business could have an adverse impact on our profit margins and results of operations. Risks Related to the Company The disparity in the voting rights among the classes of shares may have a potential adverse effect on the price of our class A common stock. The holders of class A common stock and class B common stock have identical rights except that (i) holders of class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of class B common stock are entitled to ten votes per share on all matters to be voted on by shareholders in general, and (ii) holders of class A common stock are not eligible to vote on matters relating exclusively to class B common stock and vice versa. The differential in voting rights and the ability of our company to issue additional class B common stock could adversely affect the value of the class A common stock to the extent the investors, or any potential future purchaser of our company, view the superior voting rights of the class B common stock to have value. Future sales of our class A common stock in the public market or sales or distributions of our class B commons stock could lower our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute our stockholders ownership in us. We may sell additional shares of class A common stock in subsequent public offerings. We also may issue additional shares of class A common stock or convertible debt securities. As of December 31, 2005, we had 6,414,517 outstanding shares of class A common stock. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales or distributions of class B common stock owned by GGCP will have on the market price of the class A common stock prevailing from time to time. Sales or distributions of substantial amounts of class A or class B common stock , or the perception that such sales or distributions could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price for the class A common stock. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 36 