ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings with the SEC in evaluating our business. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impact our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our operating results may be affected.Risks Relating to Our Business The loss of one or more of our major customers could result in a material loss of revenues; financial difficulties for our major customers could have a significant impact on us.We derived approximately 25% of our consolidated net sales from our top five customers for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2013. We do not enter into long-term sales contracts with our major customers, relying instead on product performance, long-standing relationships, and on our position in the marketplace. As a result, we face the risk that one or more of these or other customers may significantly decrease their business with us or terminate their relationship with us as a result of competitive forces, financial difficulties or other reasons, which could result in significant levels of excess inventory, a material decrease in our sales, or material impact on our operating results. Further, a large percentage of our gross accounts receivables are typically from our largest wholesale customers. For example, approximately 75% of our gross accounts receivable at December 28, 2013 were from our ten largest wholesale customers, with four of these customers having individual receivable balances in excess of 10% of gross accounts receivable. Our reserves for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make payments may prove not to be sufficient if any of our major wholesale customers were unable to meet outstanding obligations to us or if their financial condition or credit position were to deteriorate, which could materially adversely affect our operating results.The acceptance of our products in the marketplace is affected by consumers’ tastes and preferences, along with fashion trends.We believe that continued success depends on our ability to provide a compelling value proposition for our consumers in the Company's distribution channels. There can be no assurance that the demand for our products will not decline, or that we will be able to successfully and timely evaluate and adapt our products to changes in consumers' tastes and preferences or fashion trends. If consumers' tastes and preferences are not aligned with our product offerings, demand for our products may decline, promotional pricing may be required to move seasonal merchandise, and our gross margins and results of operations could be adversely affected. The value of our brand, and our sales, could be diminished if we are associated with negative publicity, including due to actions by our vendors, independent manufacturers and licensees, over whom we have limited control. Although we maintain policies with our vendors, independent manufacturers and licensees that promote ethical business practices and our employees, agents, and third-party compliance auditors periodically visit and monitor the operations of our vendors, independent manufacturers, and licensees, we do not control these vendors, independent manufacturers, licensees, or their labor practices. A violation of our vendor policies, licensee agreements, labor laws, or other laws by these vendors, independent manufacturers, or licensees could damage our brand image. As a result, negative publicity regarding our Company, brands or products, including licensed products, could adversely affect our reputation and sales. Further, while the Company takes steps to ensure the reputation of its brand is maintained through its license agreements, there can be no guarantee that the Company's brand image will not be negatively impacted through its association with products or actions of licensees. In addition, we are subject to certain rules as a public company, such as the conflict minerals rules promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, that require disclosure of certain activities notwithstanding their compliance with the substantive provisions of applicable law. If we are required to make such disclosures, it is possible that our reputation could be harmed.Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brand, weaken our competitive position, and adversely affect our results. We currently rely on a combination of trademark, unfair competition, and copyright laws, as well as licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. The steps taken by us or by our licensees to protect our proprietary rights 7may not be adequate to prevent infringement of our trademarks or proprietary rights by others. In addition, intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights and where third parties may have rights to conflicting marks, and it may be more difficult for us to successfully challenge the use of our proprietary rights by other parties in those countries. If we fail to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, the value of our brand could be diminished and our competitive position may suffer. Further, third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand our business geographically, and any such claim could be expensive and time consuming to defend, regardless of its merit. Successful infringement claims against us could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from selling some of our products, which could have an adverse effect on our results. We may incur substantial costs as a result of investigations or other proceedings related to previously disclosed investigations. As previously reported, beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, the SEC and the United States Attorney's Office began conducting investigations, with which the Company cooperated, related to customer margin support provided by the Company, including undisclosed margin support commitments and related matters. In December 2010, the Company and the SEC entered into a non-prosecution agreement pursuant to which the SEC agreed not to charge the Company with any violations of the federal securities laws, commence any enforcement action against the Company, or require the Company to pay any financial penalties in connection with the SEC's investigation of customer margin support provided by the Company, conditioned upon the Company's continued cooperation with the SEC's investigation and with any related proceedings. The Company has incurred and may continue to incur substantial expenses for legal services due to the SEC and United States Attorney's Office investigations and any related proceedings. These matters may continue to divert management's time and attention away from operations. The Company also expects to bear additional costs pursuant to its advancement and indemnification obligations to directors and officers under our organizational documents in connection with proceedings related to these matters. Our insurance may not provide coverage to offset such costs. The Company's and its vendors' databases containing personal information of our retail store and eCommerce customers could be breached, which could subject us to adverse publicity, litigation, and expenses. In addition, if we are unable to comply with security standards created by the banks and payment card industry, our operations could be adversely affected.We rely on the security of our networks, databases, systems and processes and, in certain circumstances, those of third parties, such as vendors, to protect our proprietary information and information about our customers. If unauthorized parties gain access to these networks or databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete, or modify our private and sensitive third-party information. In addition, employees may intentionally or inadvertently cause data or security breaches that result in unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. In such circumstances, we could be held liable to our customers or other parties or be subject to regulatory or other actions for breaching privacy law or failing to adequately protect such information. This could result in costly investigations and litigation, civil or criminal penalties, operational changes, and negative publicity that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and reputation. Further, if we are unable to comply with the security standards, established by banks and payment card industry, we may be subject to fines, restrictions, and expulsion from card acceptance programs, which could adversely affect our retail operations.Increases in production costs and deflationary pressures on our selling prices may adversely affect our results. The Company's product costs are subject to fluctuations in costs such as manufacturing, cotton, labor, fuel, and transportation. In recent years, we have experienced increased costs of cotton, labor, fuel, and transportation, and have also had higher costs for foreign sourced products as a result of the devaluation of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies. We anticipate increased product costs in 2014 due to higher labor costs for our foreign manufacturers. While we raised our selling prices on many of our products over the past two years, we have been unable to fully absorb the cost increases and our profitability has been adversely impacted. In recent years, the Company experienced deflationary pressure on its selling prices, in part driven by intense price competition in the young children's apparel industry. If future product cost increases are more than anticipated, or if we are unable to offset such cost increases through selling price increases or otherwise, our profitability could be adversely affected. Future deflationary pressures on our selling prices could also adversely affect our profitability.Our business is sensitive to overall levels of consumer spending, particularly in the young children's apparel segment.Consumers' demand for young children's apparel, specifically brand name apparel products, is impacted by the overall level of consumer spending. Discretionary consumer spending is impacted by employment levels, weather, gasoline and utility costs, 8business conditions, availability of consumer credit, tax rates, interest rates, levels of consumer indebtedness, and overall levels of consumer confidence. Recent and further reductions, or lower-than-expected growth, in the level of discretionary spending may have a material adverse effect on the Company's sales and results of operations. We source substantially all of our products through foreign production arrangements. Our dependence on foreign supply sources could result in disruptions to our operations in the event of political instability, unfavorable economic conditions, international events, or new foreign regulations, and such disruptions may increase our cost of goods sold and decrease gross profit.We source substantially all of our products through a network of vendors primarily in Asia, principally, coordinated by our sourcing agents and directly through our Hong Kong sourcing office. The following could disrupt our foreign supply chain, increase our cost of goods sold, decrease our gross profit, or impact our ability to get products to our customers:•financial instability of one or more of our major vendors;•political instability or other international events resulting in the disruption of trade in foreign countries from which we source our products;•interruptions in the supply of raw materials, including cotton, fabric, and trim items;•increases in the cost of labor in our sourcing locations;•the imposition of new regulations relating to imports, duties, taxes, and other charges on imports;•the occurrence of a natural disaster, unusual weather conditions, or an epidemic in foreign countries from which we source our products;•changes in the United States customs procedures concerning the importation of apparel products;•unforeseen delays in customs clearance of any goods;•disruptions in the global transportation network such as a port strike, capacity withholding, world trade restrictions, or war;•the application of foreign intellectual property laws;•the ability of our vendors to secure sufficient credit to finance the manufacturing process including the acquisition of raw materials;•potential social compliance concerns resulting from our use of international vendors, independent manufacturers and licensees, over whom we have limited control;•compliance with disclosure rules regarding the identification and reporting on the use of “conflict minerals” sourced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo in our products;•exchange rate fluctuations between the Company's and/or its subsidiaries' functional currency and the currencies paid to foreign contractors; and•other events beyond our control that could interrupt our supply chain and delay receipt of our products into the United States.We currently source most of our products through a single port. Labor disruptions at that port or otherwise along our supply chain may adversely affect our relationships with customers, reputation with consumers, and results of operations.Our business depends on our ability to source and distribute products in a timely manner. Labor disputes at independent factories where our goods are produced, the shipping port we use, or our transportation carriers create significant risks for our business, particularly if these disputes result in work slowdowns, lockouts, strikes, or other disruptions during our peak 9manufacturing and importing times. The existing contract between the port through which we source most of our products and International Longshore and Warehouse Union is scheduled to expire on July 1, 2014. This may result in slow-downs, disruptions, or a strike if a new agreement is not reached by such date, or even before that date. While we have contingency plans in place, in the event that slow-downs, disruptions or a strike occurs in connection with such contract expiration or otherwise, it may have a material adverse effect on our relationships with our customers and our business, potentially resulting in canceled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation, and reduced revenues and earnings.We source substantially all of our products through a network of vendors. We have limited control over these vendors and we may experience delays, product recalls, or loss of revenues if our products do not meet our quality standards. Our vendors may not continue to provide products that are consistent with our standards. We have occasionally received, and may in the future continue to receive, shipments of product that fail to conform to our quality control standards. A failure in our quality control program may result in diminished product quality, which may result in increased order cancellations and returns, decreased consumer demand for our products, or product recalls, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Because we do not control our vendors, products that fail to meet our standards, or other unauthorized products, could end up in the marketplace without our knowledge. This could materially harm our brand and our reputation in the marketplace.We may experience delays, product recalls, or loss of revenues if our products do not meet regulatory requirements.Our products are subject to regulation of and regulatory standards set by various governmental authorities around the world, including the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission and Health Canada, with respect to quality and safety. These regulations and standards may change from time to time. Our inability, or that of our vendors, to comply on a timely basis with regulatory requirements could result in significant fines or penalties, which could adversely affect our reputation and sales. Issues with the compliance of merchandise we sell with these regulations and standards, regardless of our culpability, or customer concerns about such issues, could result in damage to our reputation, lost sales, uninsured product liability claims or losses, merchandise recalls, and increased costs.The loss of a sourcing agent could negatively impact our ability to timely deliver our inventory supply and disrupt our business, which may adversely affect our operating results. Currently, one sourcing agent manages approximately 70% of our inventory purchases. Although we believe that other buying agents could be retained, or we could procure some of the inventory directly, the loss of this buying agent could delay our ability to timely receive inventory supply and disrupt our business, which could result in a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, we have recently increased the amount of our inventory that we source directly and plan to continue to further increase such amounts. We have limited experience in directly sourcing inventory purchases from foreign vendors and we may experience difficulty in the transition, which could disrupt our business, increase our costs, and have a material adverse effect on our operating results.We operate in a highly competitive market and the size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, resulting in a loss of market share and, as a result, a decrease in revenue and gross profit. The baby and young children's apparel market is highly competitive. Both branded and private label manufacturers compete in the baby and young children's apparel market. Our primary competitors in our wholesale businesses include private label product offerings and Disney and Gerber. Our primary competitors in the retail store channel include, in alphabetical order, Disney, Gap, Gymboree, Old Navy, and The Children's Place. Because of the fragmented nature of the industry, we also compete with many other manufacturers and retailers. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and larger customer bases than we have. As a result, these competitors may be able to: •adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly;•take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities more readily;•devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products; and•adopt more aggressive pricing strategies than we can. 10The Company's retail success and future growth is dependent upon identifying locations and negotiating appropriate lease terms for retail stores.The Company's retail stores are located in leased retail locations across the United States and Canada. Successful operation of a retail store depends, in part, on the overall ability of the retail location to attract a consumer base sufficient to make store sales volume profitable. If the Company is unable to identify new retail locations with consumer traffic sufficient to support a profitable sales level, retail growth may be limited. Further, if existing stores do not maintain a sufficient customer base that provides a reasonable sales volume or the Company is unable to negotiate appropriate lease terms for the retail stores, there could be a material adverse impact on the Company's sales, gross margin, and results of operations.Profitability and our reputation and relationships could be negatively impacted if we do not adequately forecast the demand for our products and, as a result, create significant levels of excess inventory or insufficient levels of inventory.If the Company does not adequately forecast demand for its products and purchases inventory to support an inaccurate forecast, the Company could experience increased costs and lower selling prices due to the need to dispose of excess inventory. In addition, if we forecast demand for our products that is lower than actual demand, we may experience insufficient levels of inventory, which could result in damage to our relationships with customers and our reputation with consumers.We may not achieve sales growth plans, cost savings, and other assumptions that support the carrying value of our intangible assets.As of December 28, 2013, the Company had goodwill of $136.6 million for Carter's and goodwill of $49.5 million for Bonnie Togs, and tradename assets of $220.2 million for the Carter's brand, and $85.5 million for the OshKosh brand on its consolidated balance sheet. The carrying value of these assets is subject to annual impairment reviews as of the last day of each fiscal year or more frequently, if deemed necessary, due to any significant events or changes in circumstances. Estimated future cash flows used in these impairment reviews could be negatively impacted if we do not achieve our sales plans, planned cost savings, and other assumptions that support the carrying value of these intangible assets, which could result in impairment of the remaining asset values. Any impairment would adversely affect our results of operations.We have substantial debt, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to obtain financingin the future and to react to changes in our business.As of December 28, 2013, we had approximately $586 million aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding (excluding approximately $9.5 million of outstanding letters of credit), and approximately $179.5 million of undrawn availability under our senior secured revolving credit facility after giving effect to $9.5 million of letters of credit issued under our senior secured revolving credit facility. Our substantial debt could have important consequences. Because of our substantial debt:•our ability to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including the notes, may be adversely affected;•we may be more vulnerable to adverse economic and general industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of The William Carter Company's ("TWCC") borrowings are at variable rates of interest;•we may be unable to make strategic acquisitions or be required to make non-strategic divestitures;•our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or general corporate or other purposes may be limited;•a significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use that cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities;•it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our creditors, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such debt; 11•we may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest rates and who, as a result, may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns or to finance capital expenditures or acquisitions;•our costs of borrowing may increase;•we may be unable to refinance our debt on terms as favorable as our existing debt or at all; and•our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and our ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited, or we may be prevented from carrying out capital spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy and efforts to improve the operating margins of our businesses.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to fund our day-to-day operations or to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations and other cash requirements, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to sell assets or operations, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, such alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our secured revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the senior notes restrict our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such dispositions and also restrict our and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our obligations. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, holders of the secured revolving credit facility could terminate their commitments to loan money and accelerate the maturity of borrowings thereunder, our secured lenders could foreclose against the assets securing such borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.The terms of our secured revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the senior notes contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact our management’s flexibility or our financial and operational flexibility to operate our business.Our secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants that, among other things, restrict TWCC and certain of its subsidiaries’ ability to: •incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness;•issue disqualified stock and preferred stock;•pay dividends or make distributions or other restricted payments;•redeem or repurchase capital stock; 12•prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt;•make loans and investments (including joint ventures);•incur liens;•make dividends, loans or asset transfers from TWCC’s subsidiaries;•sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries;•consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of TWCC’s assets to, another person;•designate subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries;•enter into sale and leaseback transactions;•enter into transactions with affiliates; and•enter into new lines of business.In addition, our secured revolving credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that it will meet them.The indenture governing the senior notes contains certain restrictive covenants that, among other things, restrict us and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to:•incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness;•pay dividends or make distributions or other restricted payments;•make loans and investments (including joint ventures);•incur liens;•sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries;•create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to TWCC or TWCC's subsidiaries that are guarantors of the senior notes from certain subsidiaries that are not guarantors of the senior notes;•consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of TWCC’s assets to, another person;•designate subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and•enter into transactions with affiliates.The restrictions in the indenture that govern the senior notes or under our secured revolving credit facilities may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests, and may make it difficult for us to execute our business strategy successfully or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility.A breach of the covenants under the indenture that governs the senior notes or under the secured revolving credit facility could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such default may allow the holders to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under the secured revolving credit facility would permit the lenders under the secured revolving credit facility to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. 13If our operating performance declines, we may need to seek waivers from the holders of our indebtedness to avoid being in default under the instruments governing such indebtedness. If we breach our covenants under our indebtedness, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the holders of such indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all. If this occurs, we would be in default under such indebtedness, the holders of such indebtedness and other lenders could exercise their rights as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our senior secured revolving credit facility, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. In the event our lenders or holders of senior notes accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we cannot assure that we would have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness.The Company's success is dependent upon retaining key individuals within the organization to execute the Company's strategic plan.The Company's ability to attract and retain qualified executive management, marketing, merchandising, design, sourcing, operations, and support function staffing is key to the Company's success. If the Company were unable to attract and retain qualified individuals in these areas, an adverse impact on the Company's growth and results of operations may result. Our inability to retain personnel as a result of our recent office consolidation or otherwise could cause us to experience business disruption due to a loss of historical knowledge and a lack of business continuity and may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.Failure to implement needed upgrades to our information technology systems could adversely affect our business.As our business grows in size, complexity, and geography, we expect our information technology infrastructure to be in regular need of enhancement and upgrades. Failure to upgrade as needed or complications encountered in upgrading systems could cause disruptions that may adversely affect our business results or operations. Further, additional investment needed to upgrade and expand our information technology infrastructure could require significant investment of additional resources and capital.We may not effectively transition our distribution functions to our new Braselton, Georgia facility. If we encounter problems with our distribution facilities, our ability to deliver our products to the market could be adversely affected and expected efficiencies may not be realized.If we are unsuccessful in timely or effectively transitioning our distribution functions to this facility, we may not achieve planned efficiency improvements and may not have sufficient distribution capacity, which could cause sales to decline and costs to increase and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our new distribution facilities in Braselton, Georgia are expected to be more complex to operate than our current facilities and we may face difficulty in hiring and training needed personnel. Our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales, and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends on the proper operation of this facility. Disruptions could adversely affect our results of operations. We may be unsuccessful in expanding into international markets.We do not have significant experience operating in markets outside of the United States and Canada. Consumer demand, behavior, tastes, and purchasing trends may differ in international markets and, as a result, sales of our products may not be successful or meet our expectations, or the margins on those sales may not be in line with those we currently anticipate. We may encounter differences in business culture and the legal environment that may make working with commercial partners and hiring and retaining an adequate employee base more challenging. We may also face difficulties integrating foreign business operations with our current operations. Any of these challenges could hinder our success in new markets. Our entry into new markets may have upfront investment costs that may not be accompanied by sufficient revenues to achieve typical or expected operational and financial performance and such costs may be greater than expected. We cannot be sure that we can successfully complete any planned expansion or that new international business will be profitable or meet our expectations. If our international expansion plans are unsuccessful, our results could be materially adversely affected.Our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks.Our ability to conduct business in new and existing international markets is subject to legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks. These include: 14•the burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations, including trade and labor restrictions; •compliance with U.S. and other country laws relating to foreign operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business; •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and •new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets. We are also subject to general political and economic risks in connection with our international operations, including: • political instability and terrorist attacks; • differences in business culture; • different laws governing relationships with employees and business partners; • changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and • general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets.We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the U.S. or foreign countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have, if any, on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social or economic policies, and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future or may require us to exit a particular market or significantly modify our current business practices. The Company's future success and growth through expansion of its international operations could be adversely affected by violations of the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar world-wide anti-bribery laws.The United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and similar world-wide anti-bribery laws prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-United States officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The Company's policies mandate compliance with anti-bribery laws. The Company cannot provide assurance that our internal control policies and procedures, or those of our vendors, will protect from reckless or criminal acts committed by the Company's employees, agents, or vendors. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt the business and result in a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.The Company is subject to various claims and pending or threatened lawsuits, and, as a result, may incur substantial costs that adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.The Company is subject to various claims and pending or threatened lawsuits in the course of its business. In the event we are required or determine to pay amounts in connection with any such lawsuits, such amounts could be significant and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Failure to continue to pay quarterly cash dividends to our shareholders could cause the market price for our common stock to decline. The Company has initiated a quarterly cash dividend and has declared and paid cash dividends of $0.16 per share to holders of record as of May 31, 2013, September 3, 2013 and November 29, 2013. Provisions in our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes could have the effect of restricting our ability to pay future cash dividends on, or make future repurchases of, our common stock. Additionally, future declarations of quarterly cash dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors based on a number of factors, including the Company's future financial performance and other investment priorities. Any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash dividends could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 15ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone. 16