Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations are subject to many risks that could adversely affect our future financial condition and performance and, therefore, the market value of our Common Stock. The risk factors applicable to us are the following: Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These write-downs, initially of asset-backed securities but spreading to other securities and loans, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business and results of operations. Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. Recently, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, 21 Table of Contents which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will stabilize the U.S. financial system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the "EESA"). The legislation was the result of a proposal by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to the U.S. Congress in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury will have the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Department of Treasury announced a program under the EESA pursuant to which it would make senior preferred stock investments in participating financial institutions (the "TARP Capital Purchase Program"). On October 14, 2008, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation announced the development of a guarantee program under the systemic risk exception to the Federal Deposit Act ("FDA") pursuant to which the FDIC would offer a guarantee of certain financial institution indebtedness in exchange for an insurance premium to be paid to the FDIC by issuing financial institutions (the "FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program"). More recently, on February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the "ARRA") was signed into law, which amends certain provisions of the EESA and contains a wide array of provisions aimed at stimulating the U.S. economy. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA and ARRA and their implementing regulations, the FDIC programs, or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, the ARRA, the FDIC, or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The impact on us of recently enacted legislation, in particular the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and their implementing regulations, and actions by the FDIC, cannot be predicted at this time. The programs established or to be established under the EESA, ARRA and Troubled Asset Relief Program may have adverse effects upon us. We may face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific programs may subject us to additional restrictions. Similarly, programs established by the FDIC under the systemic risk exception of the FDA, whether we 22 Table of Contents participate or not, may have an adverse effect on us. Participation in the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program likely will require the payment of additional insurance premiums to the FDIC. We may be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The affects of participating or not participating in any such programs, and the extent of our participation in such programs cannot reliably be determined at this time. Our mortgage banking revenue is sensitive to changes in economic conditions, decreased economic activity, a slowdown in the housing market or higher interest rates and may adversely impact our profits. Our mortgage banking segment is a significant portion of our consolidated business and maintaining our revenue stream in this segment is dependent upon our ability to originate loans and sell them to investors. Loan production levels are sensitive to changes in economic conditions and recently have suffered from a slowdown in the local housing market and tightening credit conditions. Any sustained period of decreased activity caused by further housing price pressure, loan underwriting restrictions or higher interest rates would adversely affect our mortgage originations and, consequently, reduce our income from mortgage banking activities. As a result, these conditions would also adversely affect our net income. Deteriorating economic conditions may also cause home buyers to default on their mortgages. In certain of these cases where we have originated loans and sold them to investors, we may be required to repurchase loans or provide a financial settlement to investors if it is proven that the borrower failed to provide full and accurate information on or related to their loan application or for which appraisals have not been acceptable or when the loan was not underwritten in accordance with the loan program specified by the loan investor. Such repurchases or settlements would also adversely affect our net income. George Mason, as part of the service it provides to its managed companies, purchases the loans managed companies originate at the time of origination. These loans are then sold by George Mason to investors. George Mason has agreements with its managed companies requiring that, for any loans that were originated by a managed company and for which investors have requested George Mason to repurchase due to the borrowers failure to provide full and accurate information on or related to their loan application or for which appraisals have not been acceptable or when the loan was not underwritten in accordance with the loan program specified by the loan investor, the managed company be responsible for buying back the loan. In the event that the managed company's financial condition deteriorates and it is unable to fund the repurchase of such loans, George Mason may have to provide the funds to repurchase these loans from investors. We have goodwill and other intangibles that may become impaired, and thus result in a charge against earnings. At December 31, 2008, we had $10.1 million and $2.7 million of goodwill related to the George Mason and Wilson/Bennett acquisitions, respectively. In addition, we have identified and recorded other intangible assets, such as customer relationships and trade names, as of the acquisition dates of both George Mason and Wilson/Bennett. The carrying amounts of these intangibles at December 31, 2008 was $940,000 at George Mason and $149,000 at Wilson/Bennett. Goodwill and other intangibles are tested for impairment on an annual basis or when facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. As noted above, our mortgage banking segment is sensitive to changes in economic conditions, decreased economic activity, a slowdown in the housing market and higher interest rates. During the third quarter of 2008, we performed our annual evaluation of the goodwill associated with our acquisition of George Mason. Goodwill of $12.9 million was recognized as a result of this acquisition. 23 Table of Contents We employed the services of a valuation consultant to assist us with the goodwill evaluation. The analysis included certain valuation techniques, including a discounted cash flow approach. Following the acquisition, George Mason delivered excellent financial results and returns on our investment. Recent and ongoing challenges in the regional residential real estate market have negatively impacted the cash flows expected to be generated by George Mason in the near term. The valuation analysis indicated that the goodwill was impaired and we recorded a noncash impairment charge of $2.8 million in the mortgage banking segment. In addition to directly impacting our revenues and net income, these conditions, if sustained, may result in an additional impairment charge related to the goodwill and other intangibles at George Mason if we determine the carrying value of the goodwill and other intangible assets is greater than their fair value. At Wilson/Bennett, we recorded an impairment loss totaling $2.9 million pretax, and $1.9 million after tax, during the quarter ended September 30, 2006. This was due to the loss of several significant clients as a result of the unexpected retirement of John W. Fisher, Wilson/Bennett's founder, Chief Executive Officer and President. After that announcement, these clients terminated their asset management contracts, triggering the impairment evaluation. In 2007, we performed the required annual test for impairment of goodwill, and our analysis showed the current carrying value of goodwill to be less than the fair value. However, we cannot fully predict future balances of assets under management, and future declines in assets managed by Wilson/Bennett as a result of additional losses in its client base or the lack of success in attracting and maintaining new clients could again result in an impairment condition and adversely impact earnings in future periods. We may recognize impairment charges in the future as operating and economic conditions change. We may be adversely affected by economic conditions in our market area. We are headquartered in Northern Virginia, and our market is the greater Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. Because our lending and deposit-gathering activities are concentrated in this market, we will be affected by the general economic conditions in the greater Washington area, which may, among other factors, be impacted by the level of federal government spending. Changes in the economy, and government spending in particular, may influence the growth rate of our loans and deposits, the quality of the loan portfolio and loan and deposit pricing. A significant decline in general economic condition caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors, would impact these local economic conditions and the demand for banking products and services generally, and could negatively affect our financial condition and performance. We may not be able to successfully manage our growth or implement our growth strategies, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. During the last five years, we have experienced significant growth, and a key aspect of our business strategy is our continued growth and expansion. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to: •open new branch offices or acquire existing branches or other financial institutions; •attract deposits to those locations and cross-sell new and existing depositors additional products and services; and •identify attractive loan and investment opportunities. We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy if we are unable to identify attractive markets, locations or opportunities to expand. Our ability to successfully manage our growth will also depend upon our ability to maintain capital levels sufficient to support this growth, maintain 24 Table of Contents effective cost controls and adequate asset quality such that earnings are not adversely impacted to a material degree. As we continue to implement our growth strategy by opening new branches or acquiring branches or other banks, we expect to incur increased personnel, occupancy and other operating expenses. In the case of new branches, we must absorb those higher expenses while we begin to generate new deposits, and there is a further time lag involved in redeploying new deposits into attractively priced loans and other higher yielding earning assets. Thus, our plans to branch aggressively could depress our earnings in the short run, even if we efficiently execute our branching strategy. We rely heavily on our management team and the unexpected loss of any of those personnel could adversely affect our operations; we depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We are a customer-focused and relationship-driven organization. We expect our future growth to be driven in a large part by the relationships maintained with our customers by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bernard H. Clineburg, and our other executive and senior lending officers. We have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Clineburg and six other executive officers. The existence of such agreements, however, does not necessarily assure us that we will be able to continue to retain their services. The unexpected loss of Mr. Clineburg or other key employees could have a significant adverse effect on our business and possibly result in reduced revenues and earnings. We maintain bank owned life insurance policies on all of our corporate executives. The implementation of our business strategy will also require us to continue to attract, hire, motivate and retain skilled personnel to develop new customer relationships, as well as develop new financial products and services. Many experienced banking professionals employed by our competitors are covered by agreements not to compete or solicit their existing customers if they were to leave their current employment. These agreements make the recruitment of these professionals more difficult. While we have been recently successful in acquiring what we consider to be talented banking professionals, the market for talented people is competitive and we may not continue to be successful in attracting, hiring, motivating or retaining experienced banking professionals. We may incur losses if we are unable to successfully manage interest rate risk. Our future profitability will substantially depend upon our ability to maintain or increase the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates will affect our operating performance and financial condition. The shape of the yield curve can also impact net interest income. Changing rates will impact how fast our mortgage loans and mortgage backed securities will have the principal repaid. Rate changes can also impact the behavior of our depositors, especially depositors in non-maturity deposits such as demand, interest checking, savings and money market accounts. While we attempt to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, we are unable to eliminate it as it is an inherent part of our business. Our net interest spread will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and industry-specific conditions and economic conditions generally. We may be adversely impacted by changes in the condition of financial markets. We are directly and indirectly affected by changes in market conditions. Market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. Market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and activities including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, and derivatives. Just a few of the market conditions that may shift from time to time, thereby exposing us to market risk, include fluctuations in interest and currency exchange 25 Table of Contents rates, equity and futures prices, and price deterioration or changes in value due to changes in market perception or actual credit quality of issuers. Accordingly, depending on the instruments or activities impacted, market risks can have adverse effects on our results of operations and our overall financial condition. Recently, the subprime mortgage market dislocation has also impacted the ratings of certain monoline insurance providers which, in turn, has affected the pricing of certain municipal securities and the liquidity of the short term public finance markets. We have some exposure to monolines and, as a result, are continuing to monitor this exposure as the markets evolve. We have investments in pooled trust preferred securities, totaling $8.0 million at December 31, 2008. The collateral underlying these structured securities are instruments issued by financial institutions or insurers. We own the A-3 tranches in each issue. Each of these bonds are rated by more than one rating agency. Two of the securities have composite ratings of AAA. One of the securities has a composite rating of AA, and one has a composite rating of A+. These ratings are consistent with the grades from other rating agencies. There is minimal observable trading activity for these types of securities. We have estimated the fair value of the securities through the use of internal calculations and through information provided by external pricing services. Given the level of subordination below our A-3 tranches and the actual and expected performance of the underlying collateral, we expect to receive all contractual interest and principal payments and concluded that these securities are not other-than-temporarily impaired. These securities are classified as held-to-maturity. Our concentration in loans secured by real estate may increase our future credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Approximately 86% of our loans are secured by real estate, both residential and commercial, substantially all of which are located in our market area. A major change in the region's real estate market, resulting in a deterioration in real estate values, or in the local or national economy, including changes caused by raising interest rates, could adversely affect our customers' ability to pay these loans, which in turn could adversely impact us. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are inherent in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by carefully underwriting and monitoring our extensions of credit. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur in the future. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and analysis of the loan portfolio, management determines the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses by considering such factors as general and industry-specific market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and financial performance of our loan customers relative to their financial obligations to us. The amount of future losses is impacted by changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control. Actual losses may exceed our current estimates. Rapidly growing loan portfolios are, by their nature, unseasoned. Estimating loan loss allowances for an unseasoned portfolio is more difficult than with seasoned portfolios, and may be more susceptible to changes in estimates and to losses exceeding estimates. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot fully predict such losses or assert that our loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Future loan losses that are greater than current estimates could have a material impact on our future financial performance. 26 Table of Contents Banking regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize additional loan charge-offs, based on credit judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in the amount of our allowance or loans charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking and financial services industry. We face vigorous competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, savings banks, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other types of financial institutions for deposits, loans and other financial services in our market area. A number of these banks and other financial institutions are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, as well as larger lending limits and branch systems, and offer a wider array of banking services. Many of our nonbank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. As a result, these nonbank competitors have advantages over us in providing certain services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins and our market share and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our businesses and earnings are impacted by governmental, fiscal and monetary policy. We are affected by domestic monetary policy. For example, the Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States and its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending, investing and capital raising activities and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. The actions of the Federal Reserve Board also can materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, such as loans and debt securities, and its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Our businesses and earnings also are affected by the fiscal or other policies that are adopted by various regulatory authorities of the United States. Changes in fiscal or monetary policy are beyond our control and hard to predict. Our profitability and the value of any equity investment in us may suffer because of rapid and unpredictable changes in the highly regulated environment in which we operate. We are subject to extensive supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies at the federal and state levels. Recently enacted, proposed and future banking and other legislation and regulations have had, and will continue to have, or may have a significant impact on the financial services industry. These regulations, which are generally intended to protect depositors and not our shareholders, and the interpretation and application of them by federal and state regulators, are beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably, and can be expected to influence our earnings and growth. Our success depends on our continued ability to maintain compliance with these regulations. Many of these regulations increase our costs and thus place other financial institutions that may not be subject to similar regulation in stronger, more favorable competitive positions. If we need additional capital in the future to continue our growth, we may not be able to obtain it on terms that are favorable. This could negatively affect our performance and the value of our common stock. Our business strategy calls for continued growth. We anticipate that we will be able to support this growth through the generation of additional deposits at existing and new branch locations, as well as expanded loan and other investment opportunities. However, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to support our continued growth and to maintain desired capital levels. Our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities or the placement of financial instruments that 27 Table of Contents qualify as regulatory capital will depend primarily upon our financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the amounts or on terms satisfactory to us. Our growth may be constrained if we are unable to raise additional capital as needed. We have extended off-balance sheet commitments to borrowers which expose us to credit and interest rate risk. We enter into certain off-balance sheet arrangements in the normal course of business to meet the financing needs of our customers. These off-balance sheet arrangements include commitments to extend credit, standby letters of credit and guarantees which would impact our liquidity and capital resources to the extent customers accept or use these commitments. These instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit and interest rate risk in excess of the amount recognized in the balance sheet. Our exposure to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the other party to the financial instrument for commitments to extend credit and standby letters of credit and guarantees written is represented by the contractual or notional amount of those instruments. We use the same credit policies in making commitments and conditional obligations as we do for on-balance-sheet instruments. We have operational risk that could impact our ability to provide services to our customers. We have potential operational risk exposure throughout our organization. Integral to our performance is the continued effectiveness and efficiency of our technical systems, operational infrastructure, relationships with third parties and key individuals involved in our ongoing activities. Failure by any or all of these resources subjects us to risks that may vary in size, scale and scope. This includes but is not limited to operational or technical failures, unlawful tampering with our information technology infrastructure, terrorist activities, ineffectiveness or exposure due to interruption in third party support, as well as the loss of key individuals or failure on the part of the key individuals to perform properly. We may be parties to certain legal proceedings that may impact our earnings. We face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial impact or cause significant reputational risk to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 