Item 1A. Risk Factors Negative or uncertain global economic conditions could result in a decrease in our sales and revenue and an increase in our operating costs, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Negative or uncertain global economic conditions could cause many of our direct and indirect customers to delay or reduce their purchases of our products and systems containing our products. In addition, many of our customers in each of the OEM, distribution and retail channels rely on credit financing in order to purchase our products. If negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers’ access to credit, product orders in these channels may decrease, which could result in lower revenue. Likewise, if our suppliers face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products. These actions could result in reductions in our revenue, increased price competition and increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If industry demand slows significantly as a result of negative or uncertain global economic conditions or otherwise, we may have to take steps to align our cost structure with demand, which could result in impairment charges and have a negative impact on our operating results. If demand slows significantly as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions or otherwise, we may need to execute restructuring activities to realign our cost structure with softening demand. The occurrence of restructuring activities could result in impairment charges and other expenses, which could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. Negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that we could suffer unrecoverable losses on our customers’ accounts receivable, which would adversely affect our financial results. We extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers. In addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition, we traditionally seek to mitigate our credit risk by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our accounts receivable balances; however, as a result of the recent uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable. We could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails and is unable to pay us. 17 Table of Contents Additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that if a customer whose accounts receivable we have insured fails, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss. A significant loss of an accounts receivable that we cannot recover through credit insurance would have a negative impact on our financial results. If our long-lived assets or goodwill become impaired, it may adversely affect our operating results. Negative or uncertain global economic conditions could result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows such that they are insufficient, indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired. If we are required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements because an impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill is determined, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Declines in average selling prices (“ASPs”) in the hard drive industry could adversely affect our operating results. Historically, the hard drive industry has experienced declining ASPs. Our ASPs tend to decline when competitors lower prices as a result of decreased costs or to absorb excess capacity, liquidate excess inventories, restructure or attempt to gain market share. Our ASPs also decline when there is a shift in the mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products increase relative to those of higher priced products. When ASPs in the hard drive industry decline, our ASPs are also likely to decline, which adversely affects our operating results. If we fail to anticipate or timely respond to changes in the markets for hard drives, our operating results could be adversely affected. The PC industry, which comprises a substantial portion of our revenue, is experiencing a shift in demand from 3.5-inch to 2.5-inch form factor disk drives. As a result, the market for 2.5-inch form factor drives is becoming increasingly dominated by large brand OEM customers. These OEM customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale. If we are not successful in responding to these changes in the market for smaller form factor drives, our business may suffer. In addition, during past economic downturns, as well as over the past few years, the consumer market for computers has shifted significantly towards lower priced systems, and we therefore expect this trend to continue in light of current global economic conditions. If we are not able to continue to offer a competitively priced hard drive for the low-cost PC market, our share of that market will likely fall, which could harm our operating results. The market for hard drives is also fragmenting into a variety of devices and products. Many industry analysts expect, as do we, that as content increasingly converts to digital technology from the older analog technology, the technology of computers and consumer electronics will continue to converge, and hard drives may be found in many products other than computers, such as various CE devices. However, there has also been a recent rapid growth in CE devices that do not contain a hard drive (such as tablet computers and smartphones). If device-makers are successful in achieving customer acceptance of these devices as a replacement for traditional computing applications that contain hard drives, or if we are not successful in adapting our product offerings to include alternative storage solutions that address these devices, then demand for our products may decrease, which could adversely affect our operating results. Moreover, some devices such as personal video recorders and digital video recorders, or some new PC operating systems which allow greater consumer choice in levels of functionality and therefore greater market differentiation, may require attributes not currently offered in our products, resulting in a need to develop new interfaces, form factors, technical specifications or product features, increasing our overall operational expense without corresponding incremental revenue at this stage. If we are not successful in continuing to deploy our hard drive technology and expertise to develop new products for emerging markets such as the CE market, or if we are required to incur significant costs in developing such products, it may harm our operating results. Our prices and margins are subject to declines due to unpredictable end-user demand and oversupply of hard drives. Demand for our hard drives depends on the demand for systems manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. The demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect 18 Table of Contents on the demand for hard drives in any given period. As a result, the hard drive market has experienced periods of excess capacity which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories and intense price competition. If intense price competition occurs, we may be forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which could result in lower revenue and gross margins. Our failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results or operating efficiencies. The data storage industry faces difficulties in accurately forecasting market and customer demand for its products. Accurately forecasting demand has become increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers in light of the volatility in global economic conditions. The variety and volume of products we manufacture is based in part on these forecasts. If our forecasts exceed actual market demand, or if market demand decreases significantly from our forecasts, then we could experience periods of product oversupply and price decreases, which could impact our financial performance. If our forecasts do not meet actual market demand, or if market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts or beyond our ability to add manufacturing capacity, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, which could result in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. Although we receive forecasts from our customers, they are not generally obligated to purchase the forecasted amounts. Sales volumes in the distribution and retail channels are volatile and harder to predict than sales to our OEM or ODM customers. We consider these forecasts in determining our component needs and our inventory requirements. If we fail to accurately forecast our customers’ product demands, we may have inadequate or excess inventory of our products or components, which could adversely affect our operating results. In order to efficiently and timely meet the demands of many of our OEM customers, we position our products in multiple strategic locations based on the amounts forecasted by such customers. If an OEM customer’s actual product demands decrease significantly from its forecast, then we may incur additional costs in relocating the products that have not been purchased by the OEM. This could result in a delay in our product sales and an increase in our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. Our entry into additional storage markets increases the complexity of our business, and if we are unable to successfully adapt our business processes as required by these new markets, we will be at a competitive disadvantage and our ability to grow will be adversely affected. As we expand our product line to sell into additional storage markets, the overall complexity of our business increases at an accelerated rate and we must make necessary adaptations to our business model to address these complexities. For example, as we have previously disclosed, we entered the traditional enterprise market in November 2009. In addition to requiring significant capital expenditures, our entry into the traditional enterprise market adds complexity to our business that requires us to effectively adapt our business and management processes to address the unique challenges and different requirements of the traditional enterprise market, while maintaining a competitive operating cost model. If we fail to gain market acceptance in the traditional enterprise storage market, we will remain at a competitive disadvantage to the companies that succeed in this market and our ability to continue our growth will be negatively affected. Our customers’ demand for storage capacity may not continue to grow at current industry estimates, which may lower the prices our customers are willing to pay for new products or put us at a disadvantage to competing technologies. Our customers’ demand for storage capacity may not continue to grow at current industry estimates as a result of developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital rights management, the emergence of processes such as cloud computing, data deduplication and storage virtualization, or otherwise. These factors could lead to our customers’ storage capacity needs being satisfied at lower prices with lower capacity hard drives or solid-state storage products that we do not offer, thereby decreasing our revenue or putting us at a disadvantage to competing storage technologies. As a result, even with increasing aggregate demand for storage capacity, our ASPs could decline, which could adversely affect our operating results. 19 Table of Contents Expansion into new hard drive markets may cause our capital expenditures to increase, and if we do not successfully expand into new markets, our business may suffer. To remain a significant supplier of hard drives, we will need to offer a broad range of hard drive products to our customers. We currently offer a variety of 3.5-inch or 2.5-inch hard drives for the desktop, mobile, enterprise, CE and external storage markets. However, demand for hard drives may shift to products in form factors or with interfaces that our competitors offer but which we do not. Expansion into other hard drive markets and resulting increases in manufacturing capacity requirements may require us to make substantial additional investments in part because our operations are largely vertically integrated now that we manufacture heads and magnetic media for use in many of the hard drives we manufacture. If we fail to successfully expand into new hard drive markets with products that we do not currently offer, we may lose business to our competitors who offer these products. If we fail to successfully manage our new product development or new market expansion, or if we fail to anticipate the issues associated with such development or expansion, our business may suffer. While we continue to develop new products and look to expand into new markets, the success of our new product introductions depends on a number of factors, including our ability to anticipate and manage a variety of issues associated with these new products and new markets, such as: • difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp; • market acceptance; • effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand; and • quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new product introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. Further, we need to identify how any of the new markets into which we are expanding may have different characteristics from the markets in which we currently exist and properly address these differences. These characteristics may include: • demand volume requirements; • demand seasonality; • product generation development rates; • customer concentrations; • warranty expectations and product return policies; and • cost, performance and compatibility requirements. Our business may suffer if we fail to successfully anticipate and manage these issues associated with our product development and market expansion. For example, our branded products are designed to attach to and interoperate with a wide variety of PC and CE devices, and therefore their functionality relies on the manufacturer of such devices, or the associated operating systems, enabling the manufacturer’s devices to operate with our branded products. If our branded products are not compatible with a wide variety of devices, or if device manufacturers design their devices so that our branded products cannot operate with them, and we cannot quickly and efficiently adapt our branded products to address these compatibility issues, our business could suffer. Expanding into new markets exposes our business to different seasonal demand cycles, which in turn could adversely affect our operating results. The CE and retail markets have different seasonal pricing and volume demand cycles as compared to the PC market. By expanding into these markets, we became exposed to seasonal fluctuations that are different from, and in addition to, those of the PC market. For example, because the primary customer for our branded products are individual consumers, this market has historically experienced a dramatic increase in demand during the winter holiday season. If we do not 20 Table of Contents properly adjust our supply to these new demand cycles, we risk having excess inventory during periods of low demand and insufficient inventory during periods of high demand, which could adversely affect our operating results. Selling to the retail market is an important part of our business, and if consumer spending decreases, or if we fail to maintain and grow our market share or gain market acceptance of our branded products, our operating results could suffer. Selling branded products is an important part of our business, and as our branded products revenue increases as a portion of our overall revenue, our success in the retail market becomes increasingly important to our operating results. If consumer spending decreases as a result of the recent uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, our operating results could suffer because of the increased importance of our branded products business. We sell our branded products directly to a select group of major retailers, such as computer superstores and CE stores, and authorize sales through distributors to other retailers and online resellers. Our current retail customer base is primarily in the U.S., Canada and Europe. We are facing increased competition from other companies for shelf space at a small number of major retailers that have strong buying power and pricing leverage. If we are unable to maintain effective working relationships with major retailers and online resellers, or if we fail to successfully expand into multiple channels, our competitive position in the branded product market may suffer and our operating results may be adversely affected. Our success in the retail market also depends on our ability to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation. Adverse publicity, whether or not justified, or allegations of product quality issues, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish our reputation and cause our customers to choose products offered by our competitors. In addition, the proliferation of new methods of mass communication facilitated by the Internet makes it easier for false or unfounded allegations to adversely affect our brand image and reputation. If customers no longer maintain a preference for WD®-brand products, our operating results may be adversely affected. Additionally, we face strong competition in maintaining and trying to grow our market share in the retail market, particularly because of the relatively low barriers to entry in this market. For example, several additional hard drive manufacturers have recently disclosed plans to expand into the external storage market. As these companies attempt to gain market share, we may have difficulty in maintaining or growing our market share and there may be increased downward pressure on pricing. There can be no assurance that any new products we introduce into the retail market will gain market acceptance, and if they do not, our operating results could suffer. Loss of market share with or by a key customer, or consolidation among our customer base, could harm our operating results. During the year ended July 2, 2010, a large percentage of our revenue, 53%, came from sales to our top 10 customers. These customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, which often results in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. Even if we successfully qualify a product with a customer, the customer is not generally obligated to purchase any minimum volume of products from us and may be able to cancel an order or terminate its relationship with us at any time. Our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. If we lose a key customer, if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key customer suffers financial hardship, our operating results would likely be harmed. Additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, if, as a result of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our products to a particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. Consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could harm our operating results. 21 Table of Contents Current or future competitors may gain a technology advantage or develop an advantageous cost structure that we cannot match. It may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or process technology, which may allow them to offer products or services that have a significant advantage over the products and services that we offer. Advantages could be in capacity, performance, reliability, serviceability, or other attributes. We may be at a competitive disadvantage to any companies that are able to gain these advantages. Further industry consolidation could provide competitive advantages to our competitors. The hard drive industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years. Consolidation by our competitors may enhance their capacity, abilities and resources and lower their cost structure, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage. Additionally, continued industry consolidation may lead to uncertainty in areas such as component availability, which could negatively impact our cost structure. Sales in the distribution channel are important to our business, and if we fail to maintain brand preference with our distributors or if distribution markets for hard drives weaken, our operating results could suffer. Our distribution customers typically sell to small computer manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers. We face significant competition in this channel as a result of limited product qualification programs and a significant focus on price and availability of product. If we fail to remain competitive in terms of our technology, quality, service and support, our distribution customers may favor our competitors, and our operating results could suffer. Additionally, if the distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing PC growth rate, technology transitions or a significant change in consumer buying preference, or if we experience significant price declines due to oversupply in the distribution channel, then our operating results would be adversely affected. The hard drive industry is highly competitive and can be characterized by significant shifts in market share among the major competitors. The price of hard drives has fallen over time due to increases in supply, cost reductions, technological advances and price reductions by competitors seeking to liquidate excess inventories or attempting to gain market share. In addition, rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. These factors, taken together, may result in significant shifts in market share among the industry’s major participants. In addition, product recalls can lead to a loss of market share, which could adversely affect our operating results. Some of our competitors with diversified business units outside the hard drive industry may over extended periods of time sell hard drives at prices that we cannot profitably match. Some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their revenue from business units outside the hard drive industry. Because they do not depend solely on sales of hard drives to achieve profitability, they may sell hard drives at lower prices and operate their hard drive business unit at a loss over an extended period of time while still remaining profitable overall. In addition, if these competitors can increase sales of non-hard drive products to the same customers, they may benefit from selling their hard drives at lower prices. Our operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully compete with the pricing by these companies. If we fail to qualify our products with our customers or if product life cycles lengthen, it may have a significant adverse impact on our sales and margins. We regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers. Once a product is accepted for qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification process can result in delayed or reduced product sales, reduced product margins caused by having to continue to offer a more costly current generation product, or lost sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced. The effect of missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited number of high volume OEMs, which continue to consolidate their share of the storage markets. Likewise, if product life cycles lengthen, we may have a significantly longer period to wait before we have an 22 Table of Contents opportunity to qualify a new product with a customer, which could reduce our profits because we expect declining gross margins on our current generation products as a result of competitive pressures. We are subject to risks related to product defects, which could result in product recalls or epidemic failures and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated. We warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to five years. We test our hard drives in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. However, there can be no assurance that our testing will reveal defects in our products, which may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. Accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. Product recalls can be expensive to implement and, if a product recall occurs during the product’s warranty period, we may be required to replace the defective product. Moreover, there is a risk that product defects may trigger an epidemic failure clause in a customer agreement. If an epidemic failure occurs, we may be required to replace or refund the value of the defective product and to cover certain other costs associated with the consequences of the epidemic failure. In addition, a product recall or epidemic failure may damage our reputation or customer relationships, and may cause us to lose market share with our customers, including our OEM and ODM customers. Our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than us. We record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. We may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products, whether as a result of a product recall, epidemic failure or otherwise. If these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. A competitive cost structure is critical to our operating results, and increased costs may adversely affect our operating margin. A competitive cost structure for our products, including critical components, labor and overhead, is critical to the success of our business, and our operating results depend on our ability to maintain competitive cost structures on new and established products. If our competitors are able to achieve a lower cost structure that we are unable to match, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors. Shortages of commodity materials or commodity components, price volatility, or use by other industries of materials and components used in the hard drive industry, may negatively impact our operating results. Increases in the cost for certain commodity materials or commodity components may increase our costs of manufacturing and transporting hard drives and key components. Shortages of commodity components such as DRAM and NAND flash, or commodity materials such as glass substrates, stainless steel, aluminum, nickel, neodymium, ruthenium or platinum, may increase our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate these increased costs. Furthermore, if other high volume industries increase their demand for materials or components such as these, our costs may further increase, which could have an adverse effect on our operating margins. In addition, shortages in other commodity components and materials used in our customers’ products could result in a decrease in demand for our products, which would negatively impact our operating results. The volatility in the cost of oil also affects our transportation costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to pass these increased costs through to our customers. If we fail to maintain effective relationships with our major component suppliers, our supply of critical components may be at risk and our profitability could suffer. While we make most of our own heads and magnetic media for some of our product families, we do, according to our sourcing strategy, purchase some percentage of our required heads and magnetic media from our external supply base. In addition, we purchase a majority of our other components, including all mechanical and electronic components, from our external supply base. For certain components, we use multiple suppliers that deploy different technology or processes, and we must successfully integrate components from these suppliers in our products. Accordingly, we must maintain effective relationships with our supply base to source our component needs, develop compatible technology, and maintain continuity of supply at reasonable costs. If we fail to maintain effective relationships with our supply base, or if we fail to 23 Table of Contents integrate components from our suppliers effectively, this may adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver the best products to our customers and our profitability could suffer. For example, in August 2003, we settled litigation with a supplier who previously was the sole source of read channel devices for our hard drives. As a result of the disputes that gave rise to the litigation, our profitability was at risk until another supplier’s read channel devices could be designed into our products. Similar disputes with other strategic component suppliers could adversely affect our operating results. Violation of applicable laws, including labor or environmental laws, and certain other practices by our suppliers could harm our business. We expect our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as “suppliers”) to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including labor and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct. While our internal operating guidelines promote ethical business practices, we do not control our suppliers or their labor or environmental practices. The violation of labor, environmental or other laws by any of our suppliers, or divergence of a supplier’s business practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the U.S., could harm our business by: • interrupting or otherwise disrupting the shipment of our product components; • damaging our reputation; • forcing us to find alternate component sources; • reducing demand for our products (for example, through a consumer boycott); or • exposing us to potential liability for our supplier’s wrongdoings. Dependence on a limited number of qualified suppliers of components and manufacturing equipment could lead to delays, lost revenue or increased costs. Our future operating results may depend substantially on our suppliers’ ability to timely qualify their components in our programs, and their ability to supply us with these components in sufficient volumes to meet our production requirements. A number of the components that we use are available from only a single or limited number of qualified suppliers, and may be used across multiple product lines. In addition, some of the components (or component types) used in our products are used in other devices, such as mobile telephones and digital cameras. If there is a significant simultaneous upswing in demand for such a component (or component type) from several high volume industries resulting in a supply reduction, if a component is otherwise in short supply, or if a supplier fails to qualify or has a quality issue with a component, we may experience delays or increased costs in obtaining that component. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of materials used in the manufacture of magnetic components, or other necessary components, we may experience production delays which could cause us loss of revenue. If a component becomes unavailable, we could suffer significant loss of revenue. In addition, certain equipment and consumables we use in our manufacturing or testing processes are available only from a limited number of suppliers. Some of this equipment and consumables use materials that at times could be in short supply. If these materials are not available, or are not available in the quantities we require for our manufacturing and testing processes, our ability to manufacture our products could be impacted, and we could suffer significant loss of revenue. Each of the following could also significantly harm our operating results: • an unwillingness of a supplier to supply such components or equipment to us; • consolidation of key suppliers; • failure of a key supplier’s business process; • a key supplier’s or sub-supplier’s inability to access credit necessary to operate its business; or • failure of a key supplier to remain in business, to remain an independent merchant supplier, or to adjust to market conditions. 24 Table of Contents Contractual commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying increased charges and cash advances for such components or may cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory. To reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying components, which may subject us to cancellation charges if we cancel orders as a result of technology transitions or changes in our component needs. In addition, we may from time to time enter into contractual commitments with component suppliers in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those components and enable us to purchase such components at favorable prices. Some of these commitments may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier; however, these commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such components. Furthermore, as a result of the current global economic conditions, our ability to forecast our requirements for these components has become increasingly difficult, therefore increasing the risk that our contractual commitments may not meet our actual supply requirements, which could cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory and adversely affect our operating results and increase our operating costs. Failure by certain suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture components, technology or production equipment for our products may adversely affect our operations. We rely on suppliers for various component parts that we integrate into our hard drives but do not manufacture ourselves, such as semiconductors, motors, flex circuits and suspensions. Likewise, we rely on suppliers for certain technology and equipment necessary for advanced development technology for future products. Some of these components, and most of this technology and production equipment, must be specifically designed to be compatible for use in our products or for developing and manufacturing our future products, and are only available from a limited number of suppliers, some of with whom we are sole sourced. We are therefore dependent on these suppliers to be able and willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop components that can be successfully integrated with our products, and technology and production equipment that can be used to develop and manufacture our next-generation products efficiently. The failure of these suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture components that can be integrated into our products or technology and production equipment that can be used to develop or manufacture next generation products may cause us to experience inability or delay in our manufacturing and shipment of hard drive products, our expansion into new technology and markets, or our ability to remain competitive with alternative storage technologies, therefore adversely affecting our business and financial results. There are certain additional capital expenditure costs and asset utilization risks to our business associated with our strategy to vertically integrate our operations. Our vertical integration of head and magnetic media manufacturing resulted in a fundamental change in our operating structure, as we now manufacture heads and magnetic media for use in many of the hard drives we manufacture. Consequently, we make more capital investments and carry a higher percentage of fixed costs than we would if we were not vertically integrated. If the overall level of production decreases for any reason, and we are unable to reduce our fixed costs to match sales, our head or magnetic media manufacturing assets may face under-utilization that may impact our operating results. We are therefore subject to additional risks related to overall asset utilization, including the need to operate at high levels of utilization to drive competitive costs and the need for assured supply of components that we do not manufacture ourselves. In addition, we may incur additional risks, including: • failure to continue to leverage the integration of our magnetic media technology with our head technology; • insufficient third party sources to satisfy our needs if we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of heads or magnetic media; • third party head or magnetic media suppliers may not continue to do business with us or may not do business with us on the same terms and conditions we have previously enjoyed; • claims that our manufacturing of heads or magnetic media may infringe certain intellectual property rights of other companies; and 25 Table of Contents • difficulties locating in a timely manner suitable manufacturing equipment for our head or magnetic media manufacturing processes and replacement parts for such equipment. If we do not adequately address the challenges related to our head or magnetic media manufacturing operations, our ongoing operations could be disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our revenue or profit margins and negatively impacting our operating results. If we are unable to timely and cost-effectively develop heads and magnetic media with leading technology and overall quality, our ability to sell our products may be significantly diminished, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. Under our business plan, we are developing and manufacturing a substantial portion of the heads and magnetic media used in the hard drive products we manufacture. Consequently, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of head and magnetic media technologies developed by other manufacturers. Technology transition for head and magnetic media designs is critical to increasing our volume production of heads and magnetic media. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in timely and cost-effectively developing and manufacturing heads or magnetic media for products using future technologies. We also may not effectively transition our head or magnetic media design and technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using the technologies necessary to satisfy our customers’ product needs, or we may encounter quality problems with the heads or magnetic media we manufacture. In addition, we may not have access to external sources of supply without incurring substantial costs which would negatively impact our business and financial results. Changes in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial results. If product life cycles lengthen, we may need to develop new technologies or programs to reduce our costs on any particular product to maintain competitive pricing for that product. If product life cycles shorten, it may result in an increase in our overall expenses and a decrease in our gross margins, both of which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, shortening of product life cycles also makes it more difficult to recover the cost of product development before the product becomes obsolete. Our failure to recover the cost of product development in the future could adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to make the technical innovations necessary to continue to increase areal density, we may fail to remain competitive. New products in the hard drive market typically require higher areal densities than previous product generations, posing formidable technical and manufacturing challenges. Higher areal densities require existing head and magnetic media technology to be improved or new technologies developed to accommodate more data on a single disk. In addition, our introduction of new products during a technology transition increases the likelihood of unexpected quality concerns. Our failure to bring high quality new products to market on time and at acceptable costs may put us at a competitive disadvantage to companies that achieve these results. We make significant investments in research and development, and unsuccessful investments could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Over the past several years, our business strategy has been to derive a competitive advantage by moving from being a follower of new technologies to being a leader in the innovation and development of new technologies. This strategy requires us to make significant investments in research and development. There can be no assurance that these investments will result in viable technologies or products, or if these investments do result in viable technologies or products, that they will be profitable or accepted by the market. Significant investments in unsuccessful research and development efforts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A fundamental change in recording technology could result in significant increases in our operating expenses and could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental change in technology, any manufacturer that fails to successfully and timely adjust its designs and processes to accommodate the new technology fails to remain competitive. There are some technologies, such as current-perpendicular-to-plane giant magnetoresistance, shingle magnetic 26 Table of Contents recording, energy assisted magnetic recording, patterned magnetic media, advanced signal processing, advanced format technology and other similar potentially breakthrough technologies, that will represent revolutionary recording technologies if they can be implemented by a competitor on a commercially viable basis ahead of the industry, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. As a result of these technology shifts, we could incur substantial costs in developing new technologies, such as heads, magnetic media, and tools to remain competitive. If we fail to successfully implement these new technologies, or if we are significantly slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able to offer products with capacities that our customers desire. For example, new recording technology requires changes in the manufacturing process of heads and magnetic media, which may cause longer production times and reduce the overall availability of magnetic media in the industry. Additionally, the new technology requires a greater degree of integration between heads and magnetic media which may lengthen our time of development of hard drives using this technology. Furthermore, as we attempt to develop and implement new technologies, we may become more dependent on suppliers to ensure our access to components, technology and production equipment that accommodate the new technology. For example, advanced wafer and magnetic media manufacturing technologies have historically been developed for use in the semiconductor industry prior to the hard drive industry. However, successful implementation of the use of patterned magnetic media with hard drive magnetic media currently presents a significant technical challenge facing the hard drive industry but not the semiconductor industry. Therefore, our suppliers may not be willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop manufacturing equipment for patterned magnetic media prior to a need for the equipment in the semiconductor industry. We believe that if new technologies, such as energy assisted magnetic recording, are not successfully implemented in the hard drive industry, then alternative storage technologies like solid-state storage may more rapidly overtake hard drives as the preferred storage solution for higher capacity storage needs. This result would put us at a competitive disadvantage and negatively impact our operating results. The difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost reduction. Storage capacity of the hard drive, as manufactured by us, is determined by the number of disks and each disk’s areal density. Areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk. Generally, the higher the areal density, the more information can be stored on a single platter. Historically, we have been able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through increases in areal density. Increases in areal density mean that the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost. However, because increasing areal density has become more difficult in the hard drive industry, such increases may require increases in component costs, and other opportunities to reduce costs may not continue at historical rates. Additionally, increases in areal density may require us to make further capital expenditures on items such as new testing equipment needed as a result of an increased number of GB per platter. Our inability to achieve cost reductions could adversely affect our operating results. If we do not properly manage the technology transitions of our products, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected. The storage markets in which we offer our products continuously undergo technology transitions which we must anticipate and adapt our products to address in a timely manner. For example, serial interfaces normally go through cycles in which their maximum speeds double. We must effectively manage the transition of the features of our products to address these faster interface speeds in a timely manner in order to remain competitive and cost effective. If we fail to successfully and timely manage the transition to faster interface speeds, we may be at a competitive disadvantage to other companies that have successfully adapted their products in a timely manner and our operating results may suffer. If we fail to develop and introduce new hard drives that are competitive against alternative storage technologies, our business may suffer. Our success depends in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in order to keep pace with competing technologies. Alternative storage technologies like solid-state storage and flash memory technology have successfully served digital entertainment markets for products such as digital cameras, MP3 players, USB flash drives and mobile phones that require a relatively low amount of storage capacity that cannot be economically 27 Table of Contents serviced using hard drive technology. Typically, storage needs for higher capacity and performance, with lower cost-per-gigabyte, have been better served by hard drives. However, advances in semiconductor technology have resulted in solid-state storage emerging as a technology that is competitive with hard drives for niche high performance needs in advanced digital computing markets such as enterprise servers and storage, in spite of the associated challenges in the attributes of cost, capacity and reliability. Solid-state storage, which incorporates semiconductor media, is produced by large semiconductor companies who can then sell their storage products at lower prices while still remaining profitable overall. This can help them improve their market share at the expense of the competition. In addition, these semiconductor companies may choose to supply companies like us with semiconductor media at prices that make it difficult, if not impossible, for us to compete with them on a profitable basis. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in anticipating and developing new products for the desktop, mobile, enterprise, CE and external storage markets in response to solid-state storage, as well as other competing technologies. If our hard drive technology fails to offer higher capacity, performance and reliability with lower cost-per-gigabyte than solid-state storage for the desktop, mobile, enterprise, CE and external storage markets, we will be at a competitive disadvantage to companies using semiconductor technology to serve these markets and our business will suffer. Spending to improve our technology and develop new technology to remain competitive may negatively impact our financial results. In attempting to remain competitive, we may need to increase our capital expenditures and expenses above our historical run-rate model in order to attempt to improve our existing technology and develop new technology. Increased investments in technology could cause our cost structure to fall out of alignment with demand for our products which would have a negative impact on our financial results. Our manufacturing operations are concentrated in a small number of large, purpose-built facilities, which subjects us to substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at any of these facilities are disrupted. As a result of our cost structure and strategy of vertical integration, we conduct our manufacturing operations at large, high volume, purpose-built facilities. For example, approximately 80% of our requirement for heads is satisfied by wafers fabricated in our Fremont, California facility. Also, we manufacture the majority of our substrates for magnetic media in our Johor, Malaysia facility, and we finish a majority of our magnetic media in our facilities in Penang, Malaysia and Tuas, Singapore. A majority of our high volume hard drive manufacturing operations are conducted in two facilities in Thailand, with the balance conducted in our Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia facility. The manufacturing facilities of many of our suppliers are also in Asia near our facilities. A fire, flood, earthquake, tsunami or other disaster, condition or event such as political instability, civil unrest or a power outage that adversely affects any of these facilities would significantly affect our ability to manufacture hard drives, which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results. Similarly, a localized health risk affecting our employees at these facilities or the staff of our suppliers, such as the spread of the Influenza A (H1N1) or a new pandemic influenza, could impair the total volume of hard drives that we are able to manufacture, which would result in substantial harm to our operating results. Our operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to optimize the overall quality, time-to-market and time-to-volume of new and established products. To achieve consistent success with our customers, we must balance several key attributes such as time-to-market, time-to-volume, quality, cost, service, price and a broad product portfolio. Our operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to: • maintain overall quality of products in new and established programs; • produce sufficient quantities of products at the capacities our customers demand while managing the integration of new and established technologies; • develop and qualify new products that have changes in overall specifications or features that our customers may require for their business needs; • obtain commitments from our customers to qualify new products, redesigns of current products, or new components in our existing products; 28 Table of Contents • obtain customer qualification of these products on a timely basis by meeting all of our customers’ needs for performance, quality and features; • maintain an adequate supply of components required to manufacture our products; or • maintain the manufacturing capability to quickly change our product mix between different capacities, form factors and spin speeds in response to changes in customers’ product demands. Manufacturing outside the U.S. and marketing our products globally subjects us to numerous risks. We are subject to risks associated with our global manufacturing operations and global marketing efforts, including: • obtaining requisite U.S. and foreign governmental permits and approvals; • currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions; • political instability and civil unrest; • limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods of price declines; • higher freight rates; • labor problems; • trade restrictions or higher tariffs; • copyright levies or similar fees or taxes imposed in European and other countries; • exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations; • increasing labor and overhead costs; and • loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. Terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results. The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and insurance markets and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. Additionally, it is uncertain what impact the reactions to such acts by various governmental agencies and security regulators worldwide will have on shipping costs. Acts of terrorism, either domestically or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability. To the extent this results in disruption or delays of our manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Sudden disruptions to the availability of freight lanes could have an impact on our operations. We generally ship our products to our customers, and receive shipments from our suppliers, via air or ocean freight. The sudden unavailability or disruption of cargo operations or freight lanes, such as due to labor difficulties or disputes, severe weather patterns or other natural disasters, or political instability or civil unrest, could impact our operating results by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver our products. We are vulnerable to system failures or attacks, which could harm our business. We are heavily dependent on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to operate our factories, sell our products, fulfill orders, manage inventory and bill, collect and make payments. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. Our business is also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by third parties as well as employees. Despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our business, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents If we fail to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, investment opportunities or other significant transactions, it may adversely affect our future results. As part of our growth strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of, investment opportunities in or other significant transactions with companies that are complementary to our business. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify attractive acquisition or investment opportunities, successfully complete the transaction, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as integration of the acquired company or employees. We may not be able to identify or complete appealing acquisition or investment opportunities given the intense competition for these transactions. Even if we identify and complete suitable corporate transactions, we may not be able to successfully address any integration challenges in a timely manner, or at all. If we fail to successfully integrate an acquisition, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, and our future results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to retain or hire key staff and skilled employees our business results may suffer. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key staff and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. Global competition for skilled employees in the data storage industry is intense and, as we attempt to move to a position of technology leadership in the storage industry, our business success becomes increasingly dependent on our ability to retain our key staff and skilled employees as well as attract, integrate and retain new skilled employees. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price and the overall markets may adversely affect our ability to retain key staff or skilled employees who have received equity compensation. Additionally, because a substantial portion of our key employees’ compensation is placed “at risk” and linked to the performance of our business, when our operating results are negatively impacted by global economic conditions, we are at a competitive disadvantage for retaining and hiring key staff and skilled employees versus other companies that pay a relatively higher fixed salary. If we are unable to retain our existing key staff or skilled employees, or hire and integrate new key staff or skilled employees, or if we fail to implement succession plans for our key staff, our operating results would likely be harmed. The nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk of significant litigation. The data storage industry has been characterized by significant litigation. This includes litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. We may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. We evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to time. If claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology. Such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly. In addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. We may also be liable for any past infringement. If there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. It could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. Any of these results would increase our costs and harm our operating results. Our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors. Our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non-patentable intellectual property such as our process technology. If a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology despite the safeguards we have in place, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. Also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do U.S. laws. In addition to patent protection of intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. We rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. 30 Table of Contents However, any of our registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which might harm our operating results. The costs of compliance with state, federal and international legal and regulatory requirements, such as environmental, labor, trade and tax regulations, and customers’ standards of corporate citizenship could cause an increase in our operating costs. We may be or become subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing our environmental, labor, trade and tax practices. These laws and regulations, particularly those applicable to our international operations, are or may be complex, extensive and subject to change. We will need to ensure that we and our component suppliers timely comply with such laws and regulations, which may result in an increase in our operating costs. For example, the European Union (“EU”) has enacted the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”) directive, which prohibits the use of certain substances in electronic equipment, and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) directive, which obligates parties that place electrical and electronic equipment onto the market in the EU to put a clearly identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to EU member countries regarding distribution of the equipment, and provide a mechanism to take back and properly dispose of the equipment. Similar legislation may be enacted in other locations where we manufacture or sell our products. In addition, climate change legislation in the U.S. is a significant topic of discussion and may generate federal or other regulatory responses in the near future. If we or our component suppliers fail to timely comply with applicable legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products or we may face increased operating costs as a result of taxes, fines or penalties, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In connection with our compliance with such environmental laws and regulations, as well as our compliance with industry environmental initiatives, the standards of business conduct required by some of our customers, and our commitment to sound corporate citizenship in all aspects of our business, we could incur substantial compliance and operating costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. In addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliant with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation and corporate brand which could cause our financial condition or operating results to suffer. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations may negatively affect our operating results. Because we manufacture and sell our products abroad, our revenue, margins, operating costs and cash flows are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated. Conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially U.S. dollar denominated. Additionally, we negotiate and procure some of our component requirements in U.S. dollars from Japanese and other non-U.S. based vendors. If the U.S. dollar continues to weaken against other foreign currencies, some of our component suppliers may increase the price they charge for their components in order to maintain an equivalent profit margin. If this occurs, it would have a negative impact on our operating results. Prices for our products are substantially U.S. dollar denominated, even when sold to customers that are located outside the U.S. Therefore, as a substantial portion of our sales are from countries outside the U.S., fluctuations in currency exchanges rates, most notably the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other foreign currencies, contribute to variations in sales of products in impacted jurisdictions and could adversely impact demand and revenue growth. In addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside the U.S. We have attempted to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term, foreign exchange contracts. However, these contracts do not cover our full exposure and can be canceled by the counterparty if currency controls are put in place. Currently, we hedge the Thai Baht, Malaysian Ringgit, Euro and British Pound Sterling with foreign exchange contracts. 31 Table of Contents Increases in our customers’ credit risk could result in credit losses and an increase in our operating costs. Some of our OEM customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as ODMs, that provide manufacturing services to our OEM customers. Because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct OEM customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. Our agreements with our OEM customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. Additionally, as we attempt to expand our OEM and distribution channel sales into emerging economies such as Brazil, Russia, India and China, the customers with the most success in these regions may have relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately assess the associated credit risks. Any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. Inaccurate projections of demand for our product can cause large fluctuations in our quarterly results. We often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter. In addition, our quarterly projections and results may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including: • the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers; • our product mix; • changes in the prices of our products; • manufacturing delays or interruptions; • acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products; • variations in the cost of and lead times for components for our products; • limited availability of components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; • competition and consolidation in the data storage industry; • seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for PCs often due to technological advances; and • availability and rates of transportation. Rapidly changing conditions in the hard drive industry make it difficult to predict actual results. We have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting. The highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. These changes have impacted our financial results in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Key estimates and assumptions for us include: • price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors; • inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of cost or market value (net realizable value); • reserves for doubtful accounts; • accruals for product returns; • accruals for warranty costs related to product defects; • accruals for litigation and other contingencies; • liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits; and • expensing of stock-based compensation. 32 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile. Factors such as the following may significantly affect the market price of our common stock: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; • new products introduced by us or our competitors; • periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry consolidation; • developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; • conditions and trends in the hard drive, computer, data and content management, storage and communication industries; • contraction in our operating results or growth rates that are lower than our previous high growth-rate periods; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts relating specifically to us or the hard drive industry in general; and • macroeconomic conditions that affect the market generally. In addition, general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. These fluctuations often appear to be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. Securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. A number of such suits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and management’s attention. Current economic conditions have caused us difficulty in adequately protecting our increased cash and cash equivalents from financial institution failures. The uncertain global economic conditions and volatile investment markets have caused us to hold more cash and cash equivalents than we would hold under normal circumstances. Since there has been an overall increase in demand for low-risk, U.S. government backed securities with a limited supply in the financial marketplace, we face increased difficulty in adequately protecting our increased cash and cash equivalents from possible sudden and unforeseeable failures by banks and other financial institutions. A failure of any of these financial institutions in which deposits exceed FDIC limits could have an adverse impact on our financial position. If our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial results or our stock price may be adversely affected. Our most recent evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of July 2, 2010, in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. We believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place for future periods; however, if our internal control over financial reporting is found to be ineffective or if we identify a material weakness or significant deficiency in our financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which may adversely affect our financial results or our stock price. From time to time we may become subject to income tax audits or similar proceedings, and as a result we may incur additional costs and expenses or owe additional taxes, interest and penalties that may negatively impact our operating results. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, and our determination of our tax liability is subject to review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. For example, as we have previously disclosed, we are under examination of certain of our fiscal years by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”). 33 Table of Contents Although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, the outcomes and timing of these audits are subject to significant uncertainty and could result in our having to pay amounts to the applicable tax authority in order to resolve examination of our tax positions, which could result in an increase or decrease of our current estimate of unrecognized tax benefits and may negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, net income or cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 