Risk Factors We are dependent on the continued outsourcing of research and development by the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries. We are dependent upon the ability and willingness of the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies to continue to spend on research and development and to outsource the services that we provide. We are therefore subject to risks, uncertainties and trends that affect companies in these industries. We have benefited to date from the tendency of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies to outsource clinical research projects. Any downturn in these industries or reduction in spending or outsourcing could adversely affect our business. For example, if these companies expanded upon their in-house clinical or development capabilities, they would be less likely to utilize our services. In addition, if governmental regulations were changed, they could affect the ability of our clients to operate profitably, which may lead to a decrease in research spending and therefore this could have a material adverse effect on our business. The current economic and financial downturn may have a material adverse effect on our results. Many of the world’s largest economies and financial institutions are facing extreme financial difficulty, including a decline in asset prices, liquidity problems and limited availability of credit. It is still uncertain how long this downturn will last. Such difficult economic times may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations, financial condition and ability to raise capital. Increased deliberation by clients of contract proposals may impact our ability to win sufficient new business awards, which may result in decreased revenues. Current and prospective clients have become increasingly deliberate when making decisions on whether to use our services. While requests for proposals continue to be circulated, clients are taking longer in their decisions to award clinical research projects. An inability to attract sufficient new business awards could have a material effect on our revenues, backlog and result of operations. We depend on a limited number of clients and a loss of or significant decrease in business from them could affect our business. We have in the past and may in the future derive a significant portion of our net revenue from a relatively limited number of major projects or clients. During the years ended December 31, 2009, December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, 27%, 29% and 30% respectively of our net revenues were derived from our top five clients. No one client contributed more than 10% of net revenues during the years ended December 31, 2009, December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007. The loss of, or a significant decrease in business from one or more of these key clients could result in a material adverse effect. We compete against many companies and research institutions that may be larger or more efficient than we are. This may preclude us from being given the opportunity to bid, or may prevent us from being able to competitively bid on and win new contracts. The market for Contract Research Organizations (“CROs”) is highly competitive. We primarily compete against in-house departments of pharmaceutical companies and other CROs including Covance Inc., i3 Research (United Health Group Incorporated), Kendle International Inc., Omnicare Inc., PAREXEL International Corporation, Pharmaceutical Product Development Inc., PharmaNet Development Group Inc., PRA International Inc. and Quintiles Transnational Corporation. Some of these competitors have substantially greater capital, research and development capabilities and human resources than we do. As a result, they may be selected as preferred vendors of our clients or potential clients for all projects or for significant projects, or they may be able to price projects more competitively than us. Any of these factors may prevent us from ge tting the opportunity to bid on new projects or prevent us from being competitive in bidding on new contracts. 5 Our quarterly results are dependent upon a number of factors and can fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our results of operations in any quarter can fluctuate depending upon, among other things, the number and scope of ongoing client projects, the commencement, postponement, variation and cancellation or termination of projects in the quarter, the mix of revenue, cost overruns, employee hiring and other factors. Our net revenue in any period is directly related to the number of employees and the percentage of these employees who were working on projects and billed to the client during that period. We may be unable to compensate for periods of underutilization during one part of a fiscal period by augmenting revenues during another part of that period. We believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results. If our clients discontinue using our services, or cancel or discontinue projects, our revenue will be adversely affected and we may not receive their business in the future or may not be able to attract new clients. Our clients may discontinue using our services completely or cancel some projects either without notice or upon short notice. The termination or delay of a large contract or of multiple contracts could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Historically, clients have cancelled or discontinued projects and may in the future cancel their contracts with us for reasons including: ● the failure of products being tested to satisfy safety or efficacy requirements; ● unexpected or undesired clinical results of the product; ● a decision that a particular study is no longer necessary; ● poor project performance, quality concerns, insufficient patient enrollment or investigator recruitment; or ● production problems resulting in shortages of the drug. If we lose clients, we may not be able to attract new ones, and if we lose individual projects, we may not be able to replace them. Approximately 55% of our net revenue is earned from long-term fixed-fee contracts. We would lose money in performing these contracts if the costs of performance exceed the fixed fees for these projects. Approximately 55% of our net revenue is earned from long-term fixed fee contracts. Revenues on these contracts are agreed on contract initiation between the Company and the customer and are based on estimated time inputs to the contract. Factors considered in estimating time requirements include the complexity of the study, the number of geographical sites where trials are to be conducted and the number of patients to be recruited at each site. The Company regularly reviews the estimated hours on each contract to determine if the budget accurately reflects the agreed tasks to be performed taking into account the state of progress at the time of review. The Company further ens ures that changes in scope are appropriately monitored and change orders for additional revenue are promptly negotiated for the additional work. If we were to fail to recognise and negotiate change orders for changes in the resources required or the scope of the work to be performed the Company could lose money if the costs of performance of these contracts exceeded their fixed fees. If we fail to attract or retain qualified staff, our performance may suffer. Our business, future success and ability to expand operations depends upon our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified professional, scientific and technical operating staff. We compete for qualified professionals with other CROs, temporary staffing agencies and the in-house departments of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. Although we have not had any difficulty attracting or retaining qualified staff in the past, there is no guarantee that we will be able to continue to attract a sufficient number of clinical research professionals at an acceptable cost. 6 We are highly dependent on information technology. If our systems fail or are unreliable our operations may be adversely impacted. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology infrastructure and our management information systems. Our information technology infrastructure includes both third party solutions and applications designed and maintained internally. Since our Company operates on multiple platforms, the failure of our information technology infrastructure and/or our management information systems to perform could severely disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operation. In addition, our information technology infrastructure and/or our management information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural or man-made disasters, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or hackers, power loss, or other computer systems, Internet telecommunications or data network failures. Any such interruption could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Failure to comply with the regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other regulatory authorities could result in substantial penalties and/or loss of business. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and other regulatory authorities inspect us from time to time to ensure that we comply with their regulations and guidelines, including environmental and health and safety matters. In addition, we must comply with the applicable regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials in all countries in which we operate. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements we could suffer: ● the termination of any research; ● the disqualification of data; ● the denial of the right to conduct business; ● criminal penalties; and ● other enforcement actions. In December 2009, we received a warning letter from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regarding clinical study management services provided by the company to one of its clients in relation to two studies conducted between 2004 and 2006. These studies related to the development of an antibiotic for the treatment of complicated skin and skin-structure infections. The FDA letter arises from its inspections of the Company’s client and selected clinical sites and follows a similar letter issued to that client. We submitted a response to the FDA on January 13, 2010. We are committed to working cooperatively and expeditiously with the FDA to address the matters raised in the letter. We are unable to predict at this time the financial consequences, if any, of the issues raised by the letter. We may lose business as a result of changes in the regulatory environment. Various regulatory bodies throughout the world may enact legislation which could introduce changes to the regulatory environment for drug development and research. The adoption and implementation of such legislation is difficult to predict and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on third parties for important services. We depend on third parties to provide us with services critical to our business. The failure of any of these third parties to adequately provide the required services could have a material adverse effect on our business. 7 Our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. Our contracts with our clients are sometimes denominated in currencies other than the currency in which we incur expenses related to such contracts. Where expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which contracts are priced, fluctuations in the relative value of those currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. This risk is partially mitigated by clauses in certain of our contracts which allow for price renegotiation with our clients if changes in the relative value of those currencies exceed predetermined tolerances. We regularly review our currency exchange exposure and on occasion hedge a portion of this exposure using forward exchange contracts. In addition, we are also subject to translation exposures as our consolidated financial results are presented in U.S. dollars, while the local results of certain of our subsidiaries are prepared in currencies other than U.S. dollars, including the pound sterling and the euro. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and those other currencies will affect the translation of a subsidiary’s financial results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results. We are subject to political, regulatory and legal risks associated with our international operations. We are one of a small group of organizations with the capability and expertise to conduct clinical trials on a global basis. We believe that this capability to provide our services globally in most major and developing pharmaceutical markets enhances our ability to compete for new business from large multinational pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. We have expanded geographically and operate from 68 locations in 38 countries and intend to continue expanding in regions that have the potential to increase our client base or increase our investigator and patient populations. We expect that revenues earned in emerging markets will continue to account for an increasing portion of our total revenues. However, emerging market operations may present several risks, including civil d isturbances, health concerns, cultural differences such as employment and business practices, volatility in gross domestic product, economic and governmental instability, the potential for nationalization of private assets and the imposition of exchange controls. Changes in the political and regulatory environment in the international markets in which we operate such as price or exchange controls could impact our revenue and profitability, and could lead to penalties, sanctions and reputational damages if we are not compliant with those regulations. Political uncertainty and a lack of institutional continuity in some of the emerging and developing countries in which we operate could affect the orderly operation of markets in these economies. In addition, in countries with a large and complicated structure of government and administration, national, regional, local and other governmental bodies may issue inconsistent decisions and opinions that could increase our cost of regulatory compliance. In addition, the uncertainty of the legal environment in some emerging countries could limit our ability to enforce our rights. In certain emerging and developing countries we enjoy less comprehensive protection for some of our rights, including intellectual property rights, which could undermine our competitive position. Finally, we operate in some countries where national laws may require not only accurate books and records, but also sufficient controls, policies and processes to ensure business is conducted without the influence of bribery and corruption. Given the high level of complexity of these laws, however, there is a risk that some provisions may be inadvertently breached, for example through negligent behavior of individual employees, our failure to comply with certain formal documentation requirements or otherwise. Any violation of these laws or allegations of such violations, whether or not merited, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and could cause the trading price of our ordinary shares and ADSs’ to decline. If any of the above risks or similar risks associated with our international operations were to materialize, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 8 Liability claims brought against us could result in payment of substantial damages to plaintiffs and decrease our profitability. We contract with physicians who serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials to test new drugs on their patients. This testing creates the risk of liability for personal injury to or death of the patients. Although investigators are generally required by law to maintain their own liability insurance, we could be named in lawsuits and incur expenses arising from any professional malpractice actions against the investigators with whom we contract. To date, we have not been subject to any liability claims that are expected to have a material effect on us. Indemnifications provided by our clients against the risk of liability for personal injury to or death of the patients vary from client to client and from trial to trial and may not be sufficient in scope or amount or the providers may not have the financial ability to fulfill their indemnification obligations. Furthermore, we would be liable for our own negligence and that of our employees. In addition, we maintain an appropriate level of worldwide Professional Liability/Error and Omissions Insurance. The amount of coverage we maintain depends upon the nature of the trial. We may in the future be unable to maintain or continue our current insurance coverage on the same or similar terms. If we are liable for a claim that is beyond the level of insurance coverage, we may be responsible for paying all or part of any award. We may lose business opportunities as a result of health care reform and the expansion of managed care organizations. Numerous governments, including the U.S. government and governments outside of the U.S., have undertaken efforts to control growing health care costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and drug companies. If these efforts are successful, pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies may react by spending less on research and development and therefore this could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition to healthcare reform proposals, the expansion of managed care organizations in the healthcare market may result in reduced spending on research and development. Managed care organizations’ efforts to cut costs by limiting expenditures on pharmaceuticals and medical devices could result in pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies spending less on research and development. If this were to occur, we would have fewer business opportunities and our revenues could decrease, possibly materially. We may make acquisitions in the future, which may lead to disruptions to our ongoing business. We have made a number of acquisitions and will continue to review new acquisition opportunities. If we are unable to successfully integrate an acquired company, the acquisition could lead to disruptions to the business. The success of an acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to: ● assimilate the operations and services or products of the acquired company; ● integrate acquired personnel; ● retain and motivate key employees; ● retain customers; and ● minimize the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Acquisitions of foreign companies may also involve additional risks, including assimilating differences in foreign business practices and overcoming language and cultural barriers. In the event that the operations of an acquired business do not meet our performance expectations, we may have to restructure the acquired business or write-off the value of some or all of the assets of the acquired business. 9 We may not be able to successfully develop and market or acquire new services. We may seek to develop and market new services that complement or expand our existing business or expand our service offerings through acquisition. If we are unable to develop new services and/or create demand for those newly developed services, or expand our service offerings through acquisition, our future business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected. Failure to raise sufficient finance may affect our ability to sustain future development of the business. We have financed our operations and growth since inception primarily with cash flows from operations, proceeds from our initial public offering in May 1998, secondary offering in August 2003 and borrowings as applicable. Although we have not had difficulty in raising finance in the past, there is no guarantee that we will be able to raise sufficient capital, at an appropriate cost to the Company, to sustain future development of the business. We rely on our interactive voice response systems to provide accurate information regarding the randomization of patients and the dosage required for patients enrolled in the trials. We develop and maintain computer run interactive voice response systems to automatically manage the randomization of patients in trials, assign the study drug, and adjust the dosage when required for patients enrolled in trials we support. An error in the design, programming or validation of these systems could lead to inappropriate assignment or dosing of patients which could give rise to patient safety issues, invalidation of the trial, liability claims against the Company or all three. We rely on various control measures to mitigate the risk of a serious adverse event resulting from healthy volunteer Phase I trials. We conduct healthy volunteer Phase I trials including first-into-man trials. Due to the experimental nature of these studies, serious adverse events may arise. We mitigate such events by following Good Clinical Practice and ensuring appropriately trained and experienced clinical physicians are managing these trials and that internal Standard Operating Procedures and client protocols are rigorously adhered to. We also ensure that a signed contract is in place with the client in advance of clinical dosing with appropriate indemnifications and insurance coverage. We maintain our own no-faults clinical trial insurance. Following our internal review and submission, an Independent Ethics committee approves the study protocol and appropriate approval is obtained from the relevant regulatory body. 10 