Item 1A. Risk Factors We face a number of risks that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. These include, but are not limited to, the following: • Our business could be harmed by adverse economic, political and market conditions The securities business generally is, by its nature, volatile. It is directly affected by numerous national and international factors that are beyond our control, including, among others, economic and political conditions; market sentiment; the availability of short-term and long-term funding and capital; the level and volatility of interest rates; legislative and regulatory changes; changes in currency and commodity values and inflation. In addition, events such as the terrorist attacks in the United States in 2001 and subsequent U.S. military actions have impacted the U.S. securities markets. Any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced levels of activity in the securities markets generally, or increased market volatility, which could result in lower revenues in both our Global Markets and Asset Management segments. Any reduction in revenues or any loss resulting from the above factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s businesses, financial condition and operating results. • Regulatory and legal uncertainties could harm our business The securities industry in the United States is subject to extensive oversight under federal, state and applicable international laws as well as SRO rules. Broker-dealers are subject to regulations concerning all aspects of their business, including trade practices, best execution practices, capital structure, record retention and the conduct of their officers, supervisors and registered employees. Our operations and profitability may be directly affected by, among other things, additional legislation; changes in rules promulgated by the SEC, the NASD, the FSA and other SROs or regulatory bodies; and changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules. Failure to comply with these laws, rules or regulations could result in, among other things, administrative or court proceedings, censure, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or injunctions or the suspension or disqualification of the broker-dealer or asset manager and/or their officers, supervisors or registered employees. Our ability to comply with applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on our internal system to ensure compliance, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. We are now the subject of regulatory reviews and investigations that may result in disciplinary actions in the future due to claimed noncompliance. In addition, various regulatory and enforcement agencies have been reviewing regulatory reporting obligations and best execution and trading practices as they relate to the brokerage and options industries. These reviews could result in enforcement actions or new regulations which could adversely affect our operations. The SEC, NASD and SROs are constantly proposing, or enacting, new regulations for the marketplace. For example, in June 2005, the SEC adopted rules under its Regulation NMS designed to modernize and strengthen the regulatory structure of the U.S. equity markets. Although many components of Regulation NMS may strengthen our national market system, certain components of the proposal (e.g., the trade-through rule) may have the potential for creating greater harm than good to the marketplace. Moreover, it is possible that Regulation NMS, and its associated rules, could negatively impact our Global Markets business. In regards to our Asset Management business, market disruptions and the dramatic increase in the capital allocated to alternative investment strategies during recent years have led to increased governmental as well as self-regulatory scrutiny of the hedge fund industry in general, and certain legislation proposing greater regulation of the industry periodically is considered or adopted by the U.S. Congress, as well as the Department of Labor, which enforces the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to which Deephaven is subject, and certain U.S. regulatory entities and the governing bodies of non-U.S. jurisdictions. For example, the SEC has enacted new rules that required most investment advisers to hedge funds, including Deephaven, to register as investment advisers by February 1, 2006 which will result in additional responsibilities and obligations on Deephaven’s business. Deephaven became a registered investment advisor in January 2006. It is impossible to 14 Table of Contents predict what, if any, changes in regulation applicable to Deephaven or the funds it manages, the markets in which they trade and invest or the counterparties with whom they do business may be instituted in the future. Any such regulation could negatively impact the profit potential of our Asset Management business. As a result, regulatory actions or proceedings, regulatory legislation and changes in market customs and practices could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. • We are highly dependent on key personnel We are highly dependent on a limited number of key executives. Except for Thomas Joyce, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, who has an employment contract through December 2008, and the Deephaven managers, no other key executive has an employment contract with the Company. Our success will be dependent to a large degree on our ability to retain the services of our existing key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. Competition for such personnel is intense. The loss of the services of any of our key executives or the inability to identify, hire and retain necessary highly qualified executive management in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The Deephaven managers have entered into employment agreements, which became effective on January 1, 2004. These agreements are for three-year terms, the first of which ends on December 31, 2006. The agreements include an option for renewal by the Deephaven managers through 2009 under certain circumstances. In the event that these agreements are not renewed by the Deephaven managers and we lose the services of any of these senior managers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our success also depends, in part, on the highly skilled, and often specialized, individuals we employ. Our ability to attract and retain management, sales, trading and technology professionals is important to our business strategy. The Company strives to provide high quality services that will allow it to establish and maintain long-term relationships with its clients. The Company’s ability to do so depends, in large part, upon the individual employees who represent the Company in its dealings with such clients. There can be no assurance that the Company will not lose such professionals due to increased competition or other factors in the future. The loss of sales, trading or technology professionals, particularly senior professionals with broad industry expertise, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. • Risk of losses associated with our Global Markets and Asset Management businesses We conduct our market-making activities predominantly as principal, which subjects our capital to significant risks. These activities involve the purchase, sale or short sale of securities for our own account and, accordingly, involve risks of price fluctuations and illiquidity, or rapid changes in the liquidity of markets that may limit or restrict our ability to either resell securities we purchase or to repurchase securities we sell in such transactions. From time to time, we may have large position concentrations in securities of a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry, which might result in higher trading losses than would occur if our positions and activities were less concentrated. The success of our market-making activities primarily depends upon our ability to attract order flow, the amount of, and volatility in, our quantitative market-making and program trading portfolios, the performance of our quantitative market-making models, the skill of our trading personnel, general market conditions, effective hedging strategies, the price volatility of specific securities and the availability of capital. To attract order flow, we must be competitive on price, size of securities positions traded, liquidity offerings, order execution speed, technology, reputation and client relationships and service. In our role as a market-maker, we attempt to derive a profit from the difference between the prices at which we buy and sell securities. However, competitive forces often require us to match the quotes other market-makers display and to hold varying amounts of securities in inventory. By having to maintain inventory positions, we are subject to a high degree of risk. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage such risk successfully or that we will not experience significant losses from such activities. All of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 15 Table of Contents The strategies employed by our Asset Management business could result in substantial risk of loss both to investors and to the Company’s corporate investment in the Deephaven Funds. In addition, as the Asset Management business employs leverage as an integral part of its various strategies, the risk of loss and the volatility of the underlying Deephaven Funds’ portfolios are increased. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage such risk successfully or that we will not experience significant losses from such activities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. • Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly We may experience significant variation in our future results of operations. These fluctuations may result from, among other things, introductions of or enhancements to trade execution services by us or our competitors; the value of our securities positions and our ability to manage the risks attendant thereto; the volume of our market-making activities; the dollar value of securities traded; volatility in the securities markets; our market share with institutional and broker-dealer clients; the performance, amount of, and volatility in, our quantitative market-making and program trading portfolios; the performance of our international operations; our ability to manage personnel, overhead and other expenses, including our occupancy expenses under our office leases and expenses and charges relating to legal and regulatory proceedings; the strength of our client relationships; changes in payments for order flow and clearing, execution and regulatory transaction costs; the level of assets under management and fund returns; the addition or loss of executive management and asset management, sales, trading and technology professionals; legislative, legal and regulatory changes; legal and regulatory matters; geopolitical risk; the amount and timing of capital expenditures, acquisitions and divestitures; integration, performance and operation of acquired businesses; the incurrence of costs associated with acquisitions and dispositions; investor sentiment; technological changes and events; seasonality; competition; and market and economic conditions. Such factors may also have an impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives, including, without limitation, increases in our market share and revenue capture in our Global Markets segment, and increases in our fund returns and assets under management in our Asset Management segment. If demand for our services declines in either of our two operating business segments due to any of the above factors, and we are unable to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. There also can be no assurance that we will be able to return to the rates of revenue growth that we have experienced in the past or, that we will be able to improve our operating results. At December 31, 2005, the Company held a corporate investment of approximately $282 million in the Deephaven Funds. A decline in the Deephaven Funds’ returns could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our corporate investment and our operating results. • Our Asset Management business is subject to many risks Our Asset Management business is subject to a variety of risks. These risks include, but are not limited to, the departure of key management, redemptions by investors, volatility of the funds’ returns and regulatory or legislative changes and proceedings. Currently, approximately 50% of the Deephaven Funds’ assets under management are within the Market Neutral Fund which employs market neutral investment strategies intended to focus on the preservation of capital. The general objective of market neutral investment strategies is to seek to capture mispricings or spreads between related capital instruments. Because the primary basis of the Deephaven Funds’ market neutral strategy is capturing mispricings or spreads between related instruments, rather than attempting to predict or follow absolute price movements, the performance of the Market Neutral Fund is intended to be substantially non-correlated with the general debt and equity markets, as well as with a number of other non-traditional investment strategies. However, there will be unhedged credit risk in the convertible arbitrage portfolio and that part of the portfolio will have some correlation to credit spreads. Market neutral trading strategies also involve other substantial risks such as, the disruption in historical pricing relationships and the risk of a tightening of dealer credit, forcing the premature liquidation of positions. The Deephaven Funds also employ single-strategy funds that are not market neutral focused. These single-strategy funds pursue investment strategies which involve substantial risks based on the fact that they are concentrated strategies and could be adversely affected by structural economic and regulatory changes, or general market conditions. The 16 Table of Contents concentrated focus of these strategies may cause their performance to be more volatile and result in the incurrence of greater losses during unprofitable periods as compared to a more diversified approach. Clients of our Asset Management business may generally redeem their investments upon relatively short notice, subject to certain withdrawal restrictions. In a declining market, the pace of these redemptions and withdrawal of assets may accelerate. Poor performance relative to other investment management firms also tends to result in increased redemptions, the loss of accounts, and potentially significant limitations on Deephaven’s ability to raise new assets. In addition, regulatory proceedings can impact the ability to raise funds and may increase redemptions. These redemptions could have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment in the Deephaven Funds and our results of operations. Separately, Deephaven’s business also involves specific categories of trading and operational risk. For example, although Deephaven attempts to hedge positions as part of its trading strategies, there is no assurance that adequate hedging opportunities will exist. Moreover, Deephaven relies to a material degree on its prime brokers to provide leverage, custody, execution and other services, but there is no assurance that the prime brokers will continue to provide the amount of leverage which they have in the past, or on the same terms, or provide any of the other services they currently provide, on a cost-effective basis. Deephaven also faces significant risk from the fact that any of its trading counter-parties could fail, which would likely have the effect of greatly diminishing the value of the assets which are the subject of trades with that counterparty. Finally, if Deephaven does not appropriately structure its use of leverage, the losses the funds incur could be materially exacerbated. • Substantial competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance We derive substantially all of our revenues from Global Markets and Asset Management activities. The market for these services is constantly evolving and intensely competitive, a trend that we expect will continue. We face direct competition in our Global Markets business primarily from global, national and regional broker-dealers, and also alternative trading systems, including other ECNs. Competition is primarily on the basis of our execution standards (including price, liquidity and speed), client relationships, reputation, product and service offerings and technology. A number of our Global Markets competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Some of our competitors offer a wider range of services and financial products than we do and have greater name recognition and a more extensive client base. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly than us to new or evolving opportunities and technologies, market changes, and client requirements and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities and offer more attractive terms to clients. Moreover, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties or may consolidate to enhance their services and products. It is possible that new competitors, or alliances among competitors, may also emerge and they may acquire significant market share. In our Asset Management business we primarily compete with hedge funds and other asset management companies. Competition is based primarily on our reputation, client relationships, the experience and stability of the management team, investment strategies, leverage, risk profile, fee structures and historical fund returns. Many of our competitors may have substantially greater financial resources as well as larger research and trading staffs than those available to Deephaven. These greater resources may be a particularly important competitive advantage given the highly technical, quantitative analysis required by market neutral trading, the strategy in which approximately 50% of the Deephaven Funds’ assets under management are invested. Competitive investment activity by other firms tends to reduce the Deephaven Funds’ opportunity for profit by reducing mispricings in the market as well as the margins available on the mispricings which can still be identified. In addition, the amount of capital committed to alternative investment strategies (i.e., hedge funds) has increased dramatically during recent years. At the same time, market conditions have become significantly more adverse to many of these strategies than they were in previous years. The profit potential of the Deephaven Funds may be materially reduced as a result of the proliferation of alternative investment entities in competition with Deephaven. As a result of the above, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 17 Table of Contents • We could lose significant sources of revenues if we lose any of our major clients At times, a limited number of Global Markets clients have accounted for a significant portion of our equity and institutional order flow, and we expect a large portion of the future demand for our Global Markets trading and market-making services to remain concentrated within a limited number of clients. None of our clients is contractually obligated to utilize us as a market-maker and, accordingly, these clients may direct their trading activities to other market-makers at any time. Some of these clients have purchased market-makers and specialist firms to internalize order flow. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain these major clients or that such clients will maintain or increase their demand for our trading and market-making activities. In 2005, one client accounted for 10.7% of our total U.S. equity dollar value traded in our Global Markets segment. Our Asset Management segment also has a limited number of investors. At December 31, 2005, there was one institution that accounted for 10.1% of the Deephaven Funds’ assets under management. The loss, or a significant reduction, of demand for our services from any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. • Our business is subject to substantial risk from litigation, regulatory investigations and potential securities laws liability Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability. We are exposed to liability under federal and state securities laws, other federal and state laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, the NASD, the Department of Labor, the FSA and other U.S. and non-U.S. SROs and regulatory bodies. We are also subject to the risk of litigation. We, and certain of our past and present officers, directors and employees, have been named as parties in legal actions, regulatory investigations and proceedings, securities arbitrations and administrative claims in the past and have been subject to claims alleging the violation of such laws, rules and regulations, some of which have resulted in the payment of fines and settlements. Moreover, the Company may be required to indemnify past and present officers, directors and employees in regards to these matters. Currently, we are subject to several of these matters as further described in “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 herein. In addition, certain corporate events, such as a reduction in our workforce, could also result in additional litigation or arbitration. As we intend to defend vigorously any such litigation or proceeding, significant legal expenses could be incurred. An adverse resolution of any current or future lawsuits, legal or regulatory proceedings or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. • Acquisitions, strategic investments and strategic relationships involve certain risks Over the last year, we have undertaken several strategic acquisitions, including the completed acquisitions of Direct Trading and Direct Edge and the pending acquisition of Hotspot FX, Inc. We intend to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses and technologies. Acquisitions may entail numerous risks, including difficulties in assessing values for acquired businesses and technologies, difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations and products, diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, assumption of unknown material liabilities of acquired companies, amortization of acquired intangible assets which could reduce future reported earnings, and potential loss of clients or key employees of acquired companies. We may not be able to integrate successfully any operations, personnel, services or products that we have acquired or may acquire in the future. Strategic investments may also entail some of the risks described above. If these investments are unsuccessful, we may need to incur a charge against earnings. We have also established a number of strategic relationships. These relationships and others we may enter into in the future may be important to our business and growth prospects. We may not be able to maintain these relationships or develop new strategic alliances. • Our revenues may be negatively impacted by declines in market volume, price or liquidity Our Global Markets revenues may decrease in the event of a decline in market volume, prices or liquidity. Declines in the volume of securities transactions and in market liquidity generally result in lower revenues from 18 Table of Contents market-making activities. Lower price levels of securities may also result in reduced revenue capture, and thereby reduced revenues from market-making transactions, as well as result in losses from declines in the market value of securities held in inventory. Sudden sharp declines in market values of securities can result in illiquid markets, declines in the market values of securities held in inventory, the failure of buyers and sellers of securities to fulfill their obligations and settle their trades, and increases in claims and litigation. Our Asset Management business could be similarly impacted. Any decline in market volume, price or liquidity or any other of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. • Our revenues may be negatively impacted by factors that adversely affect our trade execution activities and the credit risks associated with our clearing brokers The majority of our revenues are derived from our Global Markets business. We expect this to continue for the foreseeable future. Any factor adversely affecting trading and market-making in general, or our market-making activities in particular, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our future success will depend on continued demand for our trading and market-making services and our ability to respond to regulatory and technological changes, as well as client demands. If demand for our trading and market-making services fails to grow, grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, or declines, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. As a market-maker of OTC and listed equities, the majority of our securities transactions are conducted as principal with broker-dealer and institutional counterparties located in the United States. We clear the majority of our securities transactions through unaffiliated clearing brokers. Under the terms of the agreements between us and our clearing brokers, the clearing brokers have the right to charge us for losses that result from a counterparty’s failure to fulfill its contractual obligations. No assurance can be given that any such counterparty will not default on its obligations, which default could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, at any time, a substantial portion of our assets are held at one or more clearing brokers and, accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to such clearing brokers. One firm clears the majority of our trades and holds the majority of our assets within Global Markets. Consequently, we are reliant on the ability of our clearing brokers to adequately discharge their obligations on a timely basis. We are also dependent on the solvency of such clearing brokers. Any failure by the clearing brokers to adequately discharge their obligations on a timely basis, or failure by a clearing broker to remain solvent, or any event adversely affecting the clearing brokers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. • The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly Our Class A Common Stock, and the U.S. securities markets in general, have experienced significant price fluctuations in recent years. The price of our Class A Common Stock could decrease substantially. In addition, because the market price of our Class A Common Stock tends to fluctuate significantly, we may become the object of securities class action litigation which may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. In addition, our future quarterly operating results may not consistently meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Class A Common Stock. • Capacity constraints, systems failures and delays could harm our business Our business activities are heavily dependent on the integrity and performance of the computer and communications systems supporting them and the services of certain third parties. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. Extraordinary trading volumes or other events could cause our computer systems to operate at an unacceptably low speed or even fail. While we have invested significant amounts of capital in the last few years to upgrade the capacity, reliability and scalability of our systems, there can be no assurance that our systems will be sufficient to handle such extraordinary trading volumes. Many of our systems are, and much of our infrastructure is, designed to accommodate additional growth without redesign 19 Table of Contents or replacement; however, we may need to make significant investments in additional hardware and software to accommodate growth. Failure to make necessary expansions and upgrades to our systems and infrastructure could lead to failures and delays. Such failures and delays could cause substantial losses for our clients and could subject us to claims from our clients for losses, including litigation claiming fraud or negligence. In the past, high trading volume has caused significant delays in executing some trading orders, resulting in some clients’ orders being executed at prices they did not anticipate. From time to time, we have reimbursed our clients for losses incurred in connection with systems failures and delays. Capacity constraints, systems failures and delays may occur again in the future and could cause, among other things, unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients, slower system response times resulting in transactions not being processed as quickly as our clients desire, decreased levels of client service and client satisfaction, and harm to our reputation. If any of these events were to occur, we could suffer a loss of clients or a reduction in the growth of our client base, increased operating expenses, financial losses, additional litigation or other client claims, and regulatory sanctions or additional regulatory burdens. In addition, we have developed business continuity capabilities that can be utilized in the event of a disaster or disruption. Since the timing and impact of disasters and disruptions are unpredictable, we have to be flexible in responding to actual events as they occur. Significant business disruptions can vary in their scope. A disruption might only affect the Company, a building housing the Company, a business district in which the Company is located, a city in which the Company is located or an entire region. Within each of these areas, the severity of the disruption can also vary from minimal to severe. The Company’s business continuity facilities are designed to allow us to substantially continue operations if we are prevented from accessing or utilizing our primary offices for an extended period of time. While the Company has employed significant steps to develop, implement and maintain reasonable business continuity plans, the Company cannot guarantee our systems will absolutely recover after a significant business disruption. If we are prevented from using any of our current trading operations or if our business continuity operations do not work effectively, we may not have complete business continuity. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. • We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other changes The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service announcements, introductions and enhancements and changing client demands. If we are not able to keep up with these rapid changes on a timely and cost-effective basis, we may be at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, the widespread adoption of new internet, networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require us to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure. Any failure by us to anticipate or respond adequately to technological advancements, client requirements or changing industry standards, or any delays in the development, introduction or availability of new services, products or enhancements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 