ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission in evaluating our business. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our operating results may be affected in future periods. Risks Relating to Our Business The loss of one or more of our key customers could result in a material loss of revenues. In fiscal 2005, we derived approximately 43.0% of our consolidated net sales from our top eight customers, including mass channel customers. Kohl’s and Wal-Mart each accounted for approximately 10% of our consolidated net sales. We expect that these customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our sales in the future. However, we do not enter into long-term sales contracts with our key customers, relying instead on long-standing relationships with these customers and on our position in the marketplace. As a result, we face the risk that one or more of our key customers may significantly decrease its or their business with us or terminate its or their relationships with us. Any such decrease or termination or a decrease in our key customers’ business could result in a material decrease in our revenue and operating income. The acceptance of our product in the marketplace is affected by consumers’ tastes and preferences, along with fashion trends. We believe that continued success depends on our ability to provide a unique and compelling value proposition for our consumers in the Company’s distribution channels. There can be no assurance that the demand for our products will not decline, or that we will be able to successfully evaluate and adapt our product to be aware of consumers’ tastes and preferences and fashion trends. If consumers’ tastes and preferences are not aligned with our product offerings, promotional pricing may be required to move 8 seasonal merchandise. Increased use of promotional pricing would have a material adverse affect on our sales, gross margin, and results of operations. The value of our brand, and our sales, could be diminished if we are associated with negative publicity. While our employees, agents, and third-party compliance auditors periodically visit and monitor the operations of our vendors, independent manufacturers, and licensees, we do not control these vendors, independent manufacturers, licensees, or their labor practices. A violation of our vendor policies, licensee agreements, labor laws, or other laws by these vendors, independent manufacturers, or licensees could interrupt or otherwise disrupt our sourcing or damage our brand image. As a result, negative publicity regarding our company, brands, or products, including licensed products, could adversely affect our reputation and sales. The Company’s royalty income is greatly impacted by the Company’s brand reputation. The Company’s brand image as a consumer product with outstanding quality and name recognition makes it valuable as a royalty source. The Company is able to license complementary products and obtain royalty income from use of its Carter’s, Child of Mine, Just One Year, OshKosh, OshKosh B’Gosh, Genuine Kids from OshKosh, and related trademarks. The Company is able to obtain substantial amounts of foreign royalty income as our OshKosh B’Gosh label carries an international reputation for quality and American style. While the Company takes significant steps to ensure the reputation of its brand is maintained through its license agreements, there can be no guarantee the Company’s brand image will not be negatively impacted through its association with products outside of the Company’s core apparel products. There are deflationary pressures on the selling price of apparel products. In part due to the actions of discount retailers, and in part due to the worldwide supply of low cost garment sourcing, the average selling price of children’s apparel continues to decrease. To the extent these deflationary pressures are offset by reductions in manufacturing costs, there is a modest affect on the gross margin percentage. However, the inability to leverage certain fixed costs of the Company’s design, sourcing, distribution, and support costs over its gross sales base could have an adverse impact on the Company’s operating income. Our business is sensitive to overall levels of consumer spending, particularly in the apparel segment. The Company believes that spending on children’s apparel is somewhat discretionary. While certain apparel purchases are less discretionary due to size changes as children grow, the amount of clothing consumers desire to purchase, specifically name brand apparel products, is impacted by the overall level of consumer spending. Overall economic conditions that affect discretionary consumer spending include employment levels, business conditions, tax rates, interest rates, and overall levels of consumer indebtedness. Reductions in the level of discretionary spending or shifts in consumer spending to other products may have a material adverse affect on the Company’s sales and results of operations. 9 We source substantially all of our products through foreign production arrangements. Our dependence on foreign supply sources could result in disruptions to our operations in the event of political instability, international events, or new foreign regulations and such disruptions may increase our cost of goods sold and decrease gross profit. We source substantially all of our products through a network of various vendors in the Far East, coordinated by our Far East agents. The following could disrupt our foreign supply chain, increase our cost of goods sold, decrease our gross profit, or impact our ability to get products to our customers: · political instability or other international events resulting in the disruption of trade in foreign countries from which we source our products; · the imposition of new regulations relating to imports, duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; · the occurrence of an epidemic, the spread of which may impact our ability to obtain products on a timely basis; · changes in U.S. Customs procedures concerning the importation of apparel products; · unforeseen delays in customs clearance of any goods; · disruption in the global transportation network such as a port strike, world trade restrictions or war. These and other events beyond our control could interrupt our supply chain and delay receipt of our products into the United States. We operate in a highly-competitive market and the size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, resulting in a loss of market share and, as a result, a decrease in revenues and gross profit. The baby and young children’s apparel market is highly competitive. Both branded and private label manufacturers compete in the baby and young children’s apparel market. Our primary competitors in our wholesale and mass channel businesses include Disney, Gerber, and private label product offerings. Our primary competitors in the retail store channel include Old Navy, The Gap, The Children’s Place, Gymboree, and Disney. Because of the fragmented nature of the industry, we also compete with many other manufacturers and retailers. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and larger customer bases than we have and are less financially leveraged than we are. As a result, these competitors may be able to: · adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly; · take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities more readily; · devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products; and · adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. The Company’s retail success and future growth is dependent upon identifying locations and negotiating appropriate lease terms for retail stores. The Company’s retail stores are located in leased retail locations across the country. Successful operation of a retail store depends, in part, on the overall ability of the retail location to attract a consumer base sufficient to make store sales volume profitable. If the Company is unable to identify new retail locations with anticipated consumer traffic sufficient to support a profitable sales level, retail growth may consequently be limited. Further, if existing outlet centers do not maintain a sufficient customer base that provides a reasonable sales volume, there could be a material adverse impact on the Company’s sales, gross margin, and results of operations. 10 Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our financial condition. On December 31, 2005, we had total debt of approximately $430.0 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have negative consequences. For example, it could: · increase our vulnerability to interest rate risk; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate requirements, or to carry out other aspects of our business plan; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of that cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, or other general corporate purposes, or to carry out other aspects of our business plan; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; and · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. In addition, our senior credit facility contains financial and other restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests such as selling assets, strategic acquisitions, paying dividends, and borrowing additional funds. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt which could leave us unable to meet some or all of our obligations. We may fail to realize the cost savings and other benefits that we expect from synergies and other cost reduction initiatives. Since the due diligence phase of the Acquisition we have been developing specific plans and timelines for integrating the OshKosh business. We may encounter difficulties during the integration process. If we do not achieve our integration plans and the benefits and synergies we had anticipated, this could have an adverse effect on our operating results. The Company’s success is dependent upon retaining key individuals within the organization to execute the Company’s strategic plan. The Company’s ability to attract and retain qualified executive management, marketing, merchandising, design, sourcing, operations, and support function staffing is key to the Company’s success. If the Company were unable to attract and retain qualified individuals in these areas, an adverse impact on the Company’s growth and results of operations may result. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 11 