Risk Factors Risk Related to Our Business and Operations We depend on a limited number of clients and a loss of or significant decrease in business from them or one or more of them could affect our business. We have in the past and may in the future derive a significant portion of our net revenue from a relatively limited number of major projects or clients. During the years ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 37%, 33% and 27% respectively of our net revenues were derived from our top five clients. During the year ended December 31, 2011 13% of our net revenues were derived from one client, with no other client contributing more than 10% of net revenues during this period. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 no one client contributed more than 10% of net revenues. The loss of, or a significant decrease in business from one or more of these key clients could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Many of our contracts are long-term fixed-fee contracts. We would lose money in performing these contracts if the costs of performance exceed the fixed fees for these projects and we were unable to negotiate a change order for the value of work performed. Many of our contracts are long-term fixed fee contracts. Revenues on these contracts are agreed in the contract between the Company and the customer and are based on estimated time inputs to the contract. Factors considered in estimating time requirements include the complexity of the study, the number of geographical sites where trials are to be conducted and the number of patients to be recruited at each site. The Company regularly reviews the estimated hours on each contract to determine if the budget accurately reflects the agreed tasks to be performed taking into account the state of progress at the time of review. The Company further ensures that changes in scope are appropriately monitored and change orders for additional revenue are promptly negotiated for additional work as necessary. If we were to fail to recognize and negotiate change orders for changes in the resources required or the scope of the work to be performed the Company could lose money if the costs of performance of these contracts exceeded their fixed fees. If our clients discontinue using our services, or cancel or discontinue projects, our revenue will be adversely affected and/or we may not receive their business in the future or may not be able to attract new clients. Our clients may discontinue using our services completely or cancel some projects either without notice or upon short notice. The termination or delay of a large contract or of multiple contracts could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Historically, clients have cancelled or discontinued projects and may in the future cancel their contracts with us for reasons including: ● the failure of products being tested to satisfy safety or efficacy requirements; ● unexpected or undesired clinical results of the product; ● a decision that a particular study is no longer necessary or viable; ● poor project performance, quality concerns, insufficient patient enrollment or investigator recruitment; or ● production problems resulting in shortages of the drug. If we lose clients, we may not be able to attract new ones, and if we lose individual projects, we may not be able to replace them. 4 If we fail to attract or retain qualified staff, our performance may suffer. Our business, future success and ability to continue and expand operations depend upon our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified professional, scientific and technical operating staff. We compete for qualified professionals with other Clinical Research Organisations “CROs”, temporary staffing agencies and the in-house departments of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. Although we have not had any significant difficulty attracting or retaining qualified staff in the past, there is no guarantee that we will be able to continue to attract a sufficient number and calibre of clinical research professionals at an acceptable cost. Our ability to perform clinical trials is dependant upon our ability to recruit suitable willing investigators and patients. We contract with physicians located in hospitals, clinics or other such sites, who serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials to test new drugs on their patients. Investigators supervise administration of the study drug to patients during the course of the clinical trial. The availability of suitable patients for enrolment on studies is dependent upon many factors including, amongst others, the size of the patient population, the design of the study protocol, eligibility criteria, the referral practices of physicians, the perceived risks and benefits of the drug under study and the availability of alternative medication, including medication undergoing separate clinical trial. Insufficient patient enrolment or investigator recruitment may result in the termination or delay of a study which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We are highly dependent on information technology. If our systems fail or are unreliable our operations may be adversely impacted. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology infrastructure and our management information systems. Our information technology infrastructure includes both third party solutions and applications designed and maintained internally. Since our Company operates on multiple platforms, the failure of our information technology infrastructure and/or our management information systems to perform could severely disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operation. In addition, our information technology infrastructure and/or our management information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural or man-made disasters, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or hackers, power loss, or other computer systems, Internet telecommunications or data network failures. Any such interruption could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may make acquisitions in the future, which may lead to disruptions to our ongoing business. We have made a number of acquisitions and will continue to review new acquisition opportunities. If we are unable to successfully integrate an acquired company or business, the acquisition could lead to disruptions to our business. The success of an acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to: ● assimilate the operations and services or products of the acquired company or business; ● integrate acquired personnel; ● retain and motivate key employees; ● retain customers; and ● minimize the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. In the event that the operations of an acquired company or business do not meet our performance expectations, we may have to restructure the acquired company or business or write-off the value of some or all of the assets of the acquired company or business. Our operations might be impacted by a disruption to travel systems. Many of our operations rely on the availability of air or other transportation for the distribution of clinical trial materials, study samples and personnel. A disruption to the air travel system or other travel systems could materially impact our operations. While we have developed contingency plans to minimize the impact of such events, a disruption to the availability of air transportation or other travel systems could have a material adverse impact on our activities and results of operations. 5 We rely on our interactive voice response systems to provide accurate information regarding the randomization of patients and the dosage required for patients enrolled in the trials. We develop and maintain computer run interactive voice response systems to automatically manage the randomization of patients in trials, assign the study drug, and adjust the dosage when required for patients enrolled in trials we support. An error in the design, programming or validation of these systems could lead to inappropriate assignment or dosing of patients which could give rise to patient safety issues, invalidation of the trial, liability claims against the Company or all three. We rely on various control measures to mitigate the risk of a serious adverse event resulting from healthy volunteer Phase I trials. We conduct healthy volunteer Phase I trials including first-into-man trials. Due to the experimental nature of these studies, serious adverse events may arise. We mitigate such events by following Good Clinical Practice and ensuring appropriately trained and experienced clinical physicians are managing these trials and that internal Standard Operating Procedures and client protocols are rigorously adhered to. We also ensure that a signed contract is in place with the client in advance of clinical dosing with appropriate indemnifications and insurance coverage. We maintain our own no-faults clinical trial insurance. Following our internal review and submission, an Independent Ethics committee approves the study protocol and appropriate approval is obtained from the relevant regulatory body. Risk Related to Our Industry We are dependent on the continued outsourcing of research and development by the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries. We are dependent upon the ability and willingness of the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies to continue to spend on research and development and to outsource the services that we provide. We are therefore subject to risks, uncertainties and trends that affect companies in these industries. We have benefited to date from the tendency of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies to outsource clinical research projects. Any downturn in these industries or reduction in spending or outsourcing could adversely affect our business. For example, if these companies expanded upon their in-house clinical or development capabilities, they would be less likely to utilize our services. In addition, if governmental regulations were changed, it could affect the ability of our clients to operate profitably, which may lead to a decrease in research spending and therefore this could have a material adverse effect on our business Large pharmaceutical companies are increasingly consolidating their vendor base and entering strategic partnership arrangements with a limited number of outsource providers. Large pharmaceutical companies are continually seeking to drive efficiencies in their development processes to both reduce costs associated with the development of new drug candidates and accelerate time to market. This has generally been positive for CRO’s as it has resulted in increased outsourcing by these companies. However, in an effort to drive further efficiencies in their development processes, large pharmaceutical companies in particular are increasingly looking to consolidate the number of outsource providers with which they engage, with many entering strategic partnership arrangements with a limited number of outsource providers. While we believe this trend will benefit large CRO’s with global capabilities and expertise such as ICON, and may also lead to increased outsourcing spend, the failure to enter strategic partnership arrangements with customers or the loss of existing customers as a result of them entering strategic partnership arrangements with our competitors could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 6 Risk Related to Our Financial Results and Financial Position Our quarterly results are dependent upon a number of factors and can fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our results of operations in any quarter can fluctuate depending upon, among other things, the number and scope of ongoing client projects, the commencement, postponement, variation and cancellation or termination of projects in a quarter, the mix of revenue, cost overruns, employee hiring and other factors. Our net revenue in any period is directly related to the number and percentage of employees who were working on projects billable to the client during that period. We may be unable to compensate for periods of underutilization during one part of a fiscal period by augmenting revenues during another part of that period. We believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results. Our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. Our contracts with clients are sometimes denominated in currencies other than the currency in which we incur expenses related to such contracts. Where expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which contracts are priced, fluctuations in the relative value of those currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. This risk is partially mitigated by clauses in certain of our contracts which allow for price renegotiation with clients if changes in the relative value of those currencies exceed predetermined tolerances. In addition, we are also subject to translation exposures as our consolidated financial results are presented in U.S. dollars, while the local results of certain of our subsidiaries are prepared in currencies other than U.S. dollars, including, amongst others, the pound sterling and the euro. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and those other currencies will affect the translation of a subsidiary’s financial results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter, which may affect our results of operations. Our quarterly effective tax rate has depended and will continue to depend on the geographic distribution of our revenue, earnings amongst the multiple tax jurisdictions in which we operate and the tax law in those jurisdictions. Changes in the geographic mix of our results of operations amongst these jurisdictions may have a significant impact on our effective tax rate from quarter to quarter. In addition, as we operate in multiple tax jurisdictions, we may be subject to audits in certain jurisdictions. These audits may involve complex issues which could require an extended period of time for resolution. While we believe that adequate provisions for income taxes have been made in our financial statements, the resolution of audit issues may lead to differences which could have a significant impact on our effective tax rate. Our backlog may not convert to net revenue and the rate of conversion may slow. Our backlog at any date is not necessarily a meaningful predictor of future results, due to the potential for the cancellation or delay of projects underlying the backlog. No assurances can be given that we will be able to realize this backlog as net revenue. A failure to realize backlog as net revenue could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, as the length and complexity of projects underlying our backlog increases, the rate at which backlog converts to net revenue may be slower than in the past. A significant reduction in the rate at which backlog converts to net revenue could have a material impact on our results of operations. 7 Significant changes from our estimates of contingent consideration payable on acquisitions could have a serious adverse impact on our results of operations. We have made a number of acquisitions in the past and will continue to review new acquisition opportunities. The cost of many of these acquisitions includes a portion which is contingent upon certain future events, such as the achievement of a particular revenue or earnings target. Where an acquisition agreement provides for such additional consideration, the amount of the estimated additional consideration is recognised at the acquisition date fair value. Any changes to this estimate in subsequent periods will depend on the classification of the contingent consideration. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity it shall not be re-measured and the settlement shall be accounted for within equity. If the contingent consideration is classified as an asset or liability any adjustments will be accounted for through the consolidated statement of operations or other comprehensive income depending on whether the asset or liability is considered a financial instrument. Significant estimates and judgements are required in estimating the acquisition date fair value of the additional consideration. Changes in business conditions or the performance of the acquired business could lead to a significant change between our estimate of the acquisition date fair value and amounts payable which could have a serious impact on our results of operations. The Company is exposed to various risks in relation to our cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. The Company’s treasury function actively manages our available cash resources and invests significant cash balances in various financial institutions to try to ensure optimum returns for our surplus cash balances. These balances are classified as cash and cash equivalents or short term investments depending on the maturity of the related investment. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less. Short term investments comprise highly liquid investments with maturities of greater than three months and minimum “A+” rated fixed and floating rate securities. Given the global nature of our business, we are exposed to various risks in relation to these balances including liquidity risk, credit risk associated with the counterparties with which we invest, interest rate risk on floating rate securities, sovereign risk (our principal sovereign risk relates to investments in U.S. Treasury funds), and other factors. We manage risks in relation to these balances through ongoing monitoring of the composition of the balances and ensuring that funds are invested in accordance with strict risk management policies and controls as specified by the Company’s Board of Directors. Although we have not recognized any significant losses to date on our cash and cash equivalents or short term investments, any significant declines in their market values could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and operating results. 8 Risk Related to Political, Legal or Regulatory Environment We may lose business opportunities as a result of health care reform and the expansion of managed care organizations. Numerous governments, including the U.S. government and governments outside of the U.S., have undertaken efforts to control growing health care costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and drug companies. If these efforts are successful, pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies may react by spending less on research and development and therefore this could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition to healthcare reform proposals, the expansion of managed care organizations in the healthcare market may result in reduced spending on research and development. Managed care organizations' efforts to cut costs by limiting expenditures on pharmaceuticals and medical devices could result in pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies spending less on research and development. If this were to occur, we would have fewer business opportunities and our revenues could decrease, possibly materially. We may lose business as a result of changes in the regulatory environment. Various regulatory bodies throughout the world may enact legislation which could introduce changes to the regulatory environment for drug development and research. The adoption and implementation of such legislation is difficult to predict and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to comply with the regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other regulatory authorities could result in substantial penalties and/or loss of business. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and other regulatory authorities inspect us from time to time to ensure that we comply with their regulations and guidelines, including environmental and health and safety matters. In addition, we must comply with the applicable regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials in all countries in which we operate. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements we could suffer some or all of: ● termination of any research; ● disqualification of data; ● denial of the right to conduct business; ● criminal penalties; ● other enforcement actions; ● loss of clients and/or business; and ● litigation from clients and resulting material penalties, damages and costs. 9 Liability claims brought against us could result in payment of substantial damages to plaintiffs and decrease our profitability. Client Claims If we breach the terms of an agreement with a client, this could result in claims against us for substantial damages which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Claims relating to Investigators We contract with physicians who serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials to test new drugs on their patients. This testing creates the risk of liability for personal injury to or death of the patients. Although investigators are generally required by law to maintain their own liability insurance, we could be named in lawsuits and incur expenses arising from any professional malpractice or other actions against the investigators with whom we contract. Indemnification from Clients Indemnifications provided by our clients against the risk of liability for personal injury to or death of the patients vary from client to client and from trial to trial and may not be sufficient in scope or amount or the client may not have the financial ability to fulfill their indemnification obligations. Furthermore, we would be liable for our own negligence and negligence of our employees and such negligence could lead to litigation from clients. Insurance We maintain what we believe is an appropriate level of worldwide Professional Liability/Error and Omissions Insurance. The amount of coverage we maintain depends upon the nature of the trial. We may in the future be unable to maintain or continue our current insurance coverage on the same or similar terms. If we are liable for a claim that is beyond the level of insurance coverage, we may be responsible for paying all or part of any award. Also, the insurance policies contain exclusions which mean that the policy will not respond or provide cover in certain circumstances. Claims to Date To date, we have not been subject to any liability claims that are expected to have a material effect on our business. We are subject to political, regulatory and legal risks associated with our international operations. We are one of a small group of organizations with the capability and expertise to conduct clinical trials on a global basis. We believe that this capability to provide our services globally in most major and developing pharmaceutical markets enhances our ability to compete for new business from large multinational pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. We have expanded geographically in the past and intend to continue expanding in regions that have the potential to increase our client base or increase our investigator and patient populations. We expect that revenues earned in emerging markets will continue to account for an increasing portion of our total revenues. However, emerging market operations may present several risks, including civil disturbances, health concerns, cultural differences such as employment, regulatory and business practices, volatility in gross domestic product, economic and governmental instability, the potential for nationalization of private assets and the imposition of exchange controls. Changes in the political and regulatory environment in the international markets in which we operate such as price or exchange controls could impact our revenue and profitability, and could lead to penalties, sanctions and reputational damages if we are not compliant with those regulations. Political uncertainty and a lack of institutional continuity in some of the emerging and developing countries in which we operate could affect the orderly operation of markets in these economies. In addition, in countries with a large and complicated structure of government and administration, national, regional, local and other governmental bodies may issue inconsistent decisions and opinions that could increase our cost of regulatory compliance. Uncertainty of the legal environment in some emerging countries could also limit our ability to enforce our rights. In certain emerging and developing countries we enjoy less comprehensive protection for some of our rights, including intellectual property rights, which could undermine our competitive position. 10 Finally, we operate in some countries where national laws may require not only accurate books and records, but also sufficient controls, policies and processes to ensure business is conducted without the influence of bribery and corruption. Given the high level of complexity of some of these laws there is a risk that some provisions may inadvertently be breached, for example through negligent behavior of individual employees, or failure to comply with certain formal documentation requirements or otherwise. Any violation of these laws or allegations of such violations, whether merited or not, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. If any of the above risks or similar risks associated with our international operations were to materialize, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Risk Related to Our Common Stock Volatility in the market price of our common stock could lead to losses by investors. The market price of our common stock has experienced volatility in the past and may experience volatility in the future which could lead to losses for investors. Factors impacting volatility in the market price of our common stock include, amongst others, our results of operations, analyst expectations, developments impacting the industry or our competitors and general market and economic conditions. In addition, stock markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Future fluctuations in stock markets may lead to volatility in the market price of our common stock which could lead to losses by investors. 11 