Risk Factors Certain statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents we incorporate by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. All statements regarding our expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, capital expenditures, competitive positions, growth opportunities, plans and objectives of management and statements containing the words such as “anticipate,” “approximate,” “believe,” “plan,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “could,” “should,” “will,” “intend,” “may” and other similar expressions, are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and you must recognize that actual results may differ materially from our expectations as a result of a variety of factors, including, without limitation, those discussed below. Such forward-looking statements are based upon management’s current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results or performance to differ materially from any future results or performance expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed below and detailed from time to time in our filings with the SEC. Factors that may affect our plans or results include, without limitation: • our ability to operate pursuant to the terms of our debt obligations and the Master Lease Agreements, • our ability to meet our rental and debt service obligations, • our and AmerisourceBergen’s ability to complete the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction, including the receipt of all required regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of other closing conditions to the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction, 45 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • adverse developments with respect to our results of operations or liquidity, • our ability to attract and retain key executives and other healthcare personnel, • increased operating costs due to shortages in qualified nurses, therapists and other healthcare personnel, • the effects of healthcare reform and government regulations, interpretation of regulations and changes in the nature and enforcement of regulations governing the healthcare industry, • changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, changes arising from and related to LTAC PPS, including potential changes to hospital Medicare payment rules, Medicare Part D and changes in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements for our nursing centers, • national and regional economic conditions, particularly their effect on the availability and cost of labor, materials and other services, • our ability to control costs, particularly labor and employee benefit costs, • our ability to successfully pursue our development activities and successfully integrate new operations, including the realization of anticipated revenues, economies of scale, cost savings and productivity gains associated with such operations, • the increase in the costs of defending and insuring against alleged professional liability claims and our ability to predict the estimated costs related to such claims, • our ability to successfully reduce (by divestiture of operations or otherwise) our exposure to professional liability claims, • our ability to successfully dispose of unprofitable facilities, and • our ability to ensure and maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We caution you that any forward-looking statements made by us are not guarantees of future performance. We disclaim any obligation to update any such factors or to announce publicly the results of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments. Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, or the implementation of other measures to reduce reimbursement for our services and products could result in a substantial reduction in our revenues and operating margins. We depend on reimbursement from third party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, for substantially all of our revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we derived approximately 67% of our total revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and approximately 33% from private third party payors, such as commercial insurance companies, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations and contracted providers. The Medicare and Medicaid programs are highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. See “Item 1 – Business.” Private third party payors are continuing their efforts to control healthcare costs through direct contracts with healthcare providers, increased utilization review and greater enrollment in managed care programs and preferred provider organizations. These private payors increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures and the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk. We could be affected adversely by the continuing efforts of governmental and private third party payors to contain healthcare costs. We cannot assure you that reimbursement payments under governmental and private 46 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements third party payor programs, including Medicare supplemental insurance policies, will remain at levels comparable to present levels or will be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients eligible for reimbursement pursuant to these programs. Future changes in third party payor reimbursement rates or methods, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, or the implementation of other measures to reduce reimbursement for our services and products could result in a substantial reduction in our net operating revenues. Our operating margins may continue to be under pressure because of deterioration in pricing flexibility, changes in payor mix and growth in operating expenses in excess of increases in payments by third party payors. In addition, as a result of competitive pressures, our ability to maintain operating margins through price increases to private patients is limited. Our failure to pay rent or otherwise comply with the provisions of any of our Master Lease Agreements could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We currently lease 39 of our hospitals and 186 of our nursing centers from Ventas under our Master Lease Agreements. Our failure to pay the rent or otherwise comply with the provisions of any of our Master Lease Agreements with Ventas would result in an “Event of Default” under such Master Lease Agreement. Upon an Event of Default, remedies available to Ventas include, without limitation, terminating such Master Lease Agreement, repossessing and reletting the leased properties and requiring us to remain liable for all obligations under such Master Lease Agreement, including the difference between the rent under such Master Lease Agreement and the rent payable as a result of reletting the leased properties, or requiring us to pay the net present value of the rent due for the balance of the term of such Master Lease Agreement. The exercise of such remedies would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our businesses. See “Item 1 – Business – Master Lease Agreements.” We have limited operational and strategic flexibility since we lease a substantial number of our facilities. We lease a substantial number of our facilities from Ventas and other third parties. Under our leases, we generally are required to operate continuously our leased properties as a provider of healthcare services. In addition, these leases generally limit or restrict our ability to assign the lease to another party. Our failure to comply with these lease provisions would result in an event of default under the leases and subject us to material damages, including potential defaults under our revolving credit facility. Given these restrictions, we may be forced to continue operating unprofitable facilities to avoid defaults under our leases. See “Item 1 – Business – Master Lease Agreements.” Significant legal actions could subject us to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We incur significant costs for professional liability claims, particularly in our nursing center and hospital operations. We have experienced a significant number of professional liability claims in recent years. In addition to large compensatory claims, plaintiffs’ attorneys increasingly are seeking significant punitive damages and attorney’s fees. As a result, our professional liability costs are significant and can be unpredictable. We insure a substantial portion of our professional liability risks primarily through a wholly owned limited purpose insurance subsidiary. The limited purpose insurance subsidiary insures initial losses up to specified coverage levels per occurrence and in the aggregate. On a per claim basis, coverages for losses in excess of those insured by the limited purpose insurance subsidiary are maintained through unaffiliated commercial insurance carriers. Effective January 1, 2003, the limited purpose insurance subsidiary insures all claims in all states up to a per occurrence limit without the benefit of any aggregate coverage limit through unaffiliated commercial insurance carriers, thereby increasing our financial risk. We maintain professional and general liability insurance in amounts and coverage that management believes are sufficient for our operations. However, our insurance might not cover all claims against us or the full extent of our liability nor continue to be available at a reasonable cost. Moreover, the cost of insurance coverage maintained with unaffiliated commercial insurance carriers has 47 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements increased significantly and may continue to increase. If we are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage or are required to pay punitive damages that are uninsured, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities. We also are subject to lawsuits under the federal False Claims Act and comparable state laws for submitting fraudulent bills for services to the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These lawsuits, which may be initiated by whistleblowers, can involve significant monetary damages, fines, attorney fees and the award of bounties to private plaintiffs who successfully bring these suits, as well as to the government programs. We could experience significant increases to our operating costs due to shortages of qualified nurses and other healthcare professionals. The market for qualified nurses and other healthcare professionals is highly competitive. We, like other healthcare providers, have experienced difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel such as nurses, pharmacists, certified nurse’s assistants, nurse’s aides, therapists and other important providers of healthcare services. Our hospitals and nursing centers are particularly dependent on nurses for patient care. The difficulty we have experienced in hiring and retaining qualified personnel has increased our average wage rates and may force us to increase our use of contract personnel. We may continue to experience increases in our labor costs primarily due to higher wages and greater benefits required to attract and retain qualified healthcare personnel. Salaries, wages and benefits were approximately 55% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. Our ability to control labor costs will significantly affect our future operating results. Various states in which we operate hospitals and nursing centers have established minimum staffing requirements or may establish minimum staffing requirements in the future. The implementation of these staffing requirements in some states is not contingent upon any additional appropriation of state funds in any budget act or other statute. Our ability to satisfy such staffing requirements will depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified healthcare professionals. Failure to comply with such minimum staffing requirements may result in the imposition of fines or other sanctions. If states do not appropriate sufficient additional funds (through Medicaid program appropriations or otherwise) to pay for any additional operating costs resulting from such minimum staffing requirements, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to meet our substantial rent and debt service requirements. A substantial portion of our cash flows from operations is dedicated to the payment of rents related to our leased properties as well as principal and interest obligations on our outstanding indebtedness. Subject to certain restrictions, we also have the ability to incur substantial additional borrowings under our revolving credit facility. If we are unable to generate sufficient funds to meet our obligations, we may be required to refinance, restructure or otherwise amend some or all of such obligations, sell assets or raise additional cash through the sale of our equity. We cannot assure you that such restructuring activities, sales of assets or issuances of equity can be accomplished or, if accomplished, would raise sufficient funds to meet these obligations. In addition, our capital structure and our revolving credit facility: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our rent and interest obligations, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities, • require us to pledge as collateral substantially all of our assets, and • require us to maintain certain financial ratios at specified levels, thereby reducing our financial flexibility. These provisions: • could have a material adverse effect on our ability to withstand competitive pressures or adverse economic conditions (including adverse regulatory changes), 48 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • could affect adversely our ability to make material acquisitions, obtain future financing or take advantage of business opportunities that may arise, and • could increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that reduce our revenues and profitability. In the ordinary course of our business, we are subject regularly to inquiries, investigations and audits by federal and state agencies that oversee applicable healthcare program participation and payment regulations. The extensive federal, state and local regulations affecting the healthcare industry include, but are not limited to, regulations relating to licensure, conduct of operations, ownership of facilities, addition of facilities, allowable costs, services and prices for services, facility staffing requirements, and the confidentiality and security of health-related information. In particular, various laws including anti-kickback, anti-fraud and abuse amendments codified under the Social Security Act prohibit certain business practices and relationships that might affect the provision and cost of healthcare services reimbursable under Medicare and Medicaid, including the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients whose care will be paid by Medicare or other governmental programs. Sanctions for violating the anti-kickback, anti-fraud and abuse amendments under the Social Security Act include criminal penalties, civil sanctions, fines and possible exclusion from government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. See “Item 1 – Business – Governmental Regulation.” We believe that the regulatory environment surrounding most segments of the healthcare industry remains intense. Federal and state governments continue to impose intensive enforcement policies resulting in a significant number of inspections, citations of regulatory deficiencies and other regulatory sanctions including demands for refund of overpayments, terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, bans on Medicare and Medicaid payments for new admissions and civil monetary penalties. If we fail to comply with the extensive laws and regulations applicable to our businesses, we could become ineligible to receive government program reimbursement, suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to an investigation or other enforcement action under these laws or regulations. Furthermore, should we lose licenses for a number of our facilities as a result of regulatory action or otherwise, we could be in default under our Master Lease Agreements and our revolving credit facility. We are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local regulation or legislation, including Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, or the intensity of federal and state enforcement actions. Changes in the regulatory framework and sanctions from various enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Acquisitions that we have made or may make in the future may use significant resources, may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. We intend to selectively pursue strategic acquisitions of LTAC hospitals, skilled nursing centers, pharmacies, rehabilitation operations and other related healthcare operations. Acquisitions may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, additional operating losses, amortization of certain intangible assets of acquired companies, dilutive issuances of equity securities and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties integrating acquired operations, personnel and information systems, or in realizing projected efficiencies and cost savings, • diversion of management’s time from existing operations, • potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired companies, and 49 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • inaccurate assessment of assets and liabilities and exposure to undisclosed or unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare regulations. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in obtaining financing for acquisitions at a reasonable cost, or that such financing will not contain restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility. We also may be unable to operate acquired facilities profitably or succeed in achieving improvements in their financial performance. We continue to seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities for each of our businesses that may impact our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We continue to seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities for each of our businesses. Accordingly, we are often engaged in evaluating potential transactions and other strategic alternatives. In addition, from time to time, we engage in preliminary discussions that may result in one or more transactions. Although there is uncertainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transactions, our short-term and long-term financial position, results of operations and liquidity may be impacted if we complete any such transactions. Moreover, although we would enter into transactions to enhance shareholder value, our ability to achieve this objective would be subject to integration risks, the ability to retain and attract key personnel, the ability to realize synergies and other risks. If we fail to attract patients and residents and compete effectively with other healthcare providers, our revenues and profitability may decline. The long-term healthcare services industry is highly competitive. Our hospitals face competition from healthcare providers that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. Many competing hospitals are larger and more established than our hospitals. We may experience increased competition from existing hospitals as well as hospitals converted, in whole or in part, to specialized care facilities. Our nursing centers compete on a local and regional basis with other nursing centers and other long-term healthcare providers. Some of our competitors operate newer facilities and may offer services not provided by us or are operated by entities having greater financial and other resources than us. Our rehabilitation division competes with national, regional and local rehabilitation service providers within our markets. Several of these competitors may have greater financial and other resources than us and may be more established in the markets in which we compete. Our institutional pharmacies generally compete on price and quality of the services provided. Several of the competitors to our pharmacy operations are larger and more established service providers in the markets in which we compete. We cannot assure you that increased competition in the future will not adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The inability or failure of management in the future to conclude that we maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, or the inability of our independent auditor to issue a report attesting to management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to report in our Annual Report on Form 10-K on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, and our independent auditor is required to attest to management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. Significant resources are required to establish that we are in full compliance with the financial reporting controls and procedures. If we fail to have, or management or our independent auditor is unable to conclude that we maintain, effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting, we could be unable to provide timely and reliable financial information which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. 50 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our results of operations may suffer as a result of our Proposed Pharmacy Transaction. The Proposed Pharmacy Transaction is conditioned, among other things, on a favorable determination by the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”), receipt of necessary regulatory approvals, implementation of financing arrangements and registration of the common stock of Newco with the SEC. There are numerous uncertainties associated with the satisfaction of each of these conditions, as well as others, in the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction. Even if all of these conditions are satisfied, the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction is not expected to be completed until the second calendar quarter of 2007. Until that time, if the business focus of KPS personnel is diverted as a result of activities related to the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction or if KPS loses any customers as a result of the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction, our operating results may suffer. For the same reasons, if we are unable to successfully complete the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction, the ongoing performance and prospects of KPS may be adversely affected. Our earnings will decrease if we divest KPS. For the year ended December 31, 2006, KPS’s operating income was $49 million. KPS represented 14% of our 2006 revenues and approximately 28% of our 2006 pretax income (before allocation of corporate overhead). If we divest KPS as we anticipate as part of the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction, we will no longer have the benefit of the earnings associated with that business. Our earnings will decrease since it is likely that we will be unable to replace the earnings of KPS upon the divestiture of that business in the near term, if at all. Following the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction, we will be more highly leveraged and as a result, our ability to borrow and to invest our cash flows may be limited. If the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction is completed and KPS is divested, we will be a more highly leveraged business and we will have fewer financial resources as a result of the loss of the earnings associated with the KPS business. Our ability to satisfy our obligations and maintain profitability will be solely dependent upon the performance of our three remaining businesses since we will not be able to rely upon the financial resources of KPS. If the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, tax could be imposed on us and our shareholders. It is a condition to closing the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction that we receive a private letter ruling from the IRS that the spin-off of KPS and the subsequent merger of KPS and distribution of Newco common stock will qualify for tax-free treatment to holders of our common stock (except with respect to cash received in lieu of a fractional share) and, generally, to us. Though the IRS ruling has been received, the ruling does not address all of the issues that are relevant to determining whether the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction will qualify for tax-free treatment because the IRS will not rule on certain issues. As a condition to closing, we will receive an opinion of counsel that the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction will generally qualify for tax-free treatment to us and our shareholders. The opinion of counsel is intended to address certain of those matters that the ruling does not. The IRS ruling and opinion of counsel will not address, however, state, local or foreign tax consequences of the spin-off, merger and distribution of Newco common stock. The IRS ruling relied, and the opinion of counsel will rely, on representations, assumptions and undertakings made by us and Newco (and its subsidiaries), including representations and undertakings from Newco regarding the conduct of its business and other matters after the closing of the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction. If such representations, assumptions or undertakings are incorrect, neither the IRS ruling nor the opinion of counsel would be valid. In addition, current law generally creates a presumption that the spin-off of KPS in the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction would be taxable to us, but not to our shareholders, if Newco or its shareholders were to engage in 51 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements certain transactions that result in a change in ownership of its stock during the four-year period beginning two years before the spin-off, unless it is established that the spin-off and such transactions are not part of a plan or series of related transactions to effect a change in ownership of the stock of Newco. Furthermore, notwithstanding the IRS private letter ruling and the opinion of counsel, the IRS could determine that the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction should be treated as a taxable transaction to us and our shareholders if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel that are not covered by the IRS ruling. If the spin-off of KPS in the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, the deemed receipt of shares of KPS will be treated as a taxable distribution to our shareholders. In addition, events occurring after the distribution of common stock of Newco could cause us to recognize a gain on the spin-off of KPS. We may be required to satisfy certain indemnification obligations to Newco or may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from Newco. Under the terms of the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction, we will indemnify Newco, and Newco will indemnify us, for certain damages, liabilities and expenses resulting from a breach by the other of certain covenants contained in a master transaction agreement entered into as part of the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction. We will indemnify Newco for damages, liabilities and expenses, subject in certain circumstances to such damages, liabilities and expenses exceeding a threshold amount, incurred by Newco relating to the entities, assets and liabilities we retain, and Newco will indemnify us for all damages, liabilities and expenses incurred by us relating to Newco’s entities, assets and liabilities. We will indemnify Newco against certain damages, liabilities and expenses resulting from a breach of our representations and warranties in the master transaction agreement. The representations and warranties in the master transaction agreement will survive for a period of 15 months after the consummation of the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction. In addition, we will indemnify Newco, and Newco will indemnify us, for certain damages, liabilities and expenses resulting from a breach by the other of any of the representations, warranties or covenants contained in a tax matters agreement entered into as part of the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction. Newco also will indemnify us for certain damages, liabilities and expenses arising out of any tax imposed with respect to the spin-off of KPS if such tax is attributable to any act, any failure to act or any omission by Newco or any of its subsidiaries. We will indemnify Newco for all damages, liabilities and expenses relating to pre-closing taxes or taxes imposed on Newco or its subsidiaries because KPS was part of our consolidated return, and Newco will indemnify us for all damages, liabilities and expenses relating to post-closing taxes of Newco or its subsidiaries. The indemnification obligations described above could be significant and we cannot presently determine the amount, if any, of indemnification obligations for which we might be liable or for which we might seek payment. Our ability to satisfy these obligations will depend upon our future financial performance and other factors. Similarly, the ability of Newco to satisfy any such obligations to us will depend on its future financial performance and other factors. We cannot assure you that we will have the ability to satisfy any obligations to Newco or that Newco will have the ability to satisfy any obligations to us. After the closing of the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction, our management will own Newco common stock and there will continue to be agreements and other relationships between Newco and us. As a result of their ownership of our common stock, most of our management and certain members of our board of directors will own Newco stock following the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction. In addition, our Executive Chairman and our President and Chief Executive Officer will serve on the board of directors of Newco. The service of these individuals on the Newco board of directors and their continued service as our officers and directors as well as the ownership of Newco common stock by our management and directors, could 52 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest for these officers and directors when faced with decisions that could have implications for Newco and us. In addition, we expect to enter into an information services agreement with Newco to provide all of Newco’s information services. We expect that Newco also will be the sole supplier of institutional pharmacy products and services to our skilled nursing facilities and pharmacy management services to our hospitals pursuant to multi-year agreements. Though we believe the terms and conditions of these agreements will be at fair market value, there can be no assurance that we could not have obtained superior terms in the market. Newco will be our primary supplier of institutional pharmacy products and services to our skilled nursing facilities and pharmacy management services to our hospitals and we will be subject to Newco’s risks in connection with the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction and its operation as a stand-alone entity. We will be dependent upon Newco as the primary supplier of institutional pharmacy products and services to our skilled nursing facilities and pharmacy management services to our hospitals. After, and as a result of the Proposed Pharmacy Transaction, Newco will operate for the first time as an independent public entity. Newco is exposed to many risks, including, without limitation, initial operation without the support of the corporate infrastructure of Newco’s former parent companies. If Newco fails to operate successfully as an independent company, or if Newco fails to devote sufficient time and resources to its agreement with us or if its performance is substandard, our businesses may be harmed. Any delays, errors, inefficiencies or interruptions in the products and services provided by Newco could adversely affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 