Risk Factors We are dependent on the continued outsourcing of research and development by the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries. We are dependent upon the ability and willingness of the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies to continue to spend on research and development and to outsource the services that we provide. We are therefore subject to risks, uncertainties and trends that affect companies in these industries. We have benefited to date from the tendency of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies to outsource clinical research projects. Any downturn in these industries or reduction in spending or outsourcing could adversely affect our business. For example, if these companies expanded upon their in-house clinical or development capabilities, they would be less likely to utilize our services. In addition, if governmental regulations were changed, they could affect the ability of our clients to operate profitably, which may lead to a decrease in research spending and therefore this could have a material adverse effect on our business. 3 We depend on a limited number of clients and a loss of or significant decrease in business from them could affect our business. We have in the past and may in the future derive a significant portion of our net revenue from a relatively limited number of clients. A loss of, or a significant decrease in business from any one or more of such clients could have a material adverse effect on our business. During the year ended December 31, 2007, 30% of our net revenue was derived from our top five clients. During 2007, no client contributed more than 10% of net revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2006, 35% of our net revenue was derived from our top five clients. During 2006, no client contributed more than 10% of net revenues. During the 7 month transition period ended December 31, 2005, 39% of our net revenue was derived from our top five clients and no client contributed more than 10% of net revenues. During the fiscal year ended May 31, 2005, 43% of our net revenue was derived from our top five clients. In the fiscal year ended May 31, 2005, 12% of our net revenue was from Astra Zeneca plc, no other client contributed more than 10% of net revenues. If our clients discontinue using our services, or cancel or discontinue projects, our revenue will be adversely affected and we may not receive their business in the future or may not be able to attract new clients. Our clients may discontinue using our services completely or cancel some projects either without notice or upon short notice. The termination or delay of a large contract or of multiple contracts could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Historically, clients have cancelled or discontinued projects and may in the future cancel their contracts with us for reasons including: • the failure of products being tested to satisfy safety or efficacy requirements; • unexpected or undesired clinical results of the product; • a decision that a particular study is no longer necessary; • poor project performance, insufficient patient enrollment or investigator recruitment; or • production problems resulting in shortages of the drug. If we lose clients, we may not be able to attract new ones, and if we lose individual projects, we may not be able to replace them. We compete against many companies and research institutions that may be larger or more efficient than we are. This may preclude us from being given the opportunity to bid, or may prevent us from being able to competitively bid on and win new contracts. The market for Contract Research Organizations (“CROs”) is highly competitive. We primarily compete against in-house departments of pharmaceutical companies and other CROs including Covance Inc., i3 Research (United Health Group Incorporated), Kendle International Inc., MDS Inc., Omnicare Inc., PARAEXEL International Corporation, Pharmaceutical Product Development Inc., PharmaNet Development Group Inc., PRA International Inc. and Quintiles Transnational Corporation. Some of these competitors have substantially greater capital, research and development capabilities and human resources than we do. As a result, they may be selected as preferred vendors of our clients or potential clients for all projects or for significant projects, or they may be able to price projects more competitively than us. Any of these factors may prevent us from getting the opportunity to bid on new projects or prevent us from being competitive in bidding on new contracts. 4 Our quarterly results are dependent upon a number of factors and can fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our results of operations in any quarter can fluctuate depending upon, among other things, the number and scope of ongoing client projects, the commencement, postponement, variation and cancellation or termination of projects in the quarter, the mix of revenue, cost overruns, employee hiring and other factors. Our net revenue in any period is directly related to the number of employees and the percentage of these employees who were working on projects and billed to the client during that period. We may be unable to compensate for periods of underutilization during one part of a fiscal period by augmenting revenues during another part of that period. We believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results. Our Central Laboratory segment has been loss making in the past and may experience losses in the future. Our central laboratory has experienced a period of underperformance over the past number of years. This business unit returned to profitability for the year ended December 31, 2006, and remained profitable during the year ended December 31, 2007. To maintain this profitability we require continued strong levels of new business awards and economies of scale in the usage of both resources and lab inputs. If we do not achieve continued momentum in winning new business and if these economies are not sustained, then our central laboratory may return to a loss making position in the future. Approximately 84% of our net revenue is earned from long-term fixed-fee contracts. We would lose money in performing these contracts if the costs of performance exceed the fixed fees for these projects. Approximately 84% of our net revenue is earned from long-term fixed-fee contracts. We have in the past and will continue to bear the risk of cost overruns under these contracts. If the costs of performing these projects exceed the fixed fees for these projects, (for example if we under price these contracts), if there are significant cost overruns or if there are unanticipated delays under these contracts, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. If we fail to attract or retain qualified staff, our performance may suffer. Our business, future success and ability to expand operations depends upon our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified professional, scientific and technical operating staff. We compete for qualified professionals with other CROs, temporary staffing agencies and the in-house departments of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. Although we have not had any difficulty attracting or retaining qualified staff in the past, there is no guarantee that we will be able to continue to attract a sufficient number of clinical research professionals at an acceptable cost. Failure to comply with the regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other regulatory authorities could result in substantial penalties and/or loss of business. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and other regulatory authorities inspect us from time to time to ensure that we comply with their regulations and guidelines, including environmental and health and safety matters. In addition, we must comply with the applicable regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials in all countries in which we operate. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements we could suffer: • the termination of any research; • the disqualification of data; • the denial of the right to conduct business; • criminal penalties; and • other enforcement actions. 5 Our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. We derived approximately 50% of our consolidated net revenue in the year ended December 31, 2007, from our operations outside of the United States. Our financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies in which we report local results, including the pound sterling and the euro, will affect the translation of a subsidiary’s financial results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results. In addition, our contracts with our clients are sometimes denominated in currencies other than the currency in which we incur expenses related to such contracts. Where expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which contracts are priced, fluctuations in the relative value of those currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. This risk is partially mitigated by clauses in certain of our contracts which allow for price renegotiation with our clients if changes in the relative value of those currencies exceed predetermined tolerances. We regularly review our currency exchange exposure and on occasion hedge a portion of this exposure using forward exchange contracts. Liability claims brought against us could result in payment of substantial damages to plaintiffs and decrease our profitability. We contract with physicians who serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials to test new drugs on their patients. This testing creates the risk of liability for personal injury to or death of the patients. Although investigators are generally required by law to maintain their own liability insurance, we could be named in lawsuits and incur expenses arising from any professional malpractice actions against the investigators with whom we contract. To date, we have not been subject to any liability claims that are expected to have a material effect on us. Indemnifications provided by our clients against the risk of liability for personal injury to or death of the patients vary from client to client and from trial to trial and may not be sufficient in scope or amount or the providers may not have the financial ability to fulfill their indemnification obligations. Furthermore, we would be liable for our own negligence and that of our employees. In addition, we maintain an appropriate level of worldwide Professional Liability/Error and Omissions Insurance. The amount of coverage we maintain depends upon the nature of the trial. We may in the future be unable to maintain or continue our current insurance coverage on the same or similar terms. If we are liable for a claim that is beyond the level of insurance coverage, we may be responsible for paying all or part of any award. We may lose business opportunities as a result of health care reform and the expansion of managed care organizations. Numerous governments, including the U.S. government and governments outside of the U.S., have undertaken efforts to control growing health care costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and drug companies. If these efforts are successful, pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies may react by spending less on research and development and therefore this could have a material adverse effect on our business. For instance, in the past the U.S. Congress has entertained several comprehensive healthcare reform proposals. The proposals were generally intended to expand healthcare coverage for the uninsured and reduce the growth of total healthcare expenditures. While the U.S. Congress has not yet adopted any comprehensive reform proposals, members of Congress may raise similar proposals in the future. We are unable to predict the likelihood that healthcare reform proposals will be enacted into law. In addition to healthcare reform proposals, the expansion of managed care organizations in the healthcare market may result in reduced spending on research and development. Managed care organizations' efforts to cut costs by limiting expenditures on pharmaceuticals and medical devices could result in pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies spending less on research and development. If this were to occur, we would have fewer business opportunities and our revenues could decrease, possibly materially. 6 We may lose business as a result of changes in the regulatory environment Various regulatory bodies throughout the world may enact legislation which could introduce changes to the regulatory environment for drug development and research. The adoption and implementation of such legislation is difficult to predict and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to successfully develop and market or acquire new services. We may seek to develop and market new services that complement or expand our existing business or expand our service offerings through acquisition. If we are unable to develop new services and/or create demand for those newly developed services, or expand our service offerings through acquisition, our future business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected. We rely on third parties for important services. We depend on third parties to provide us with services critical to our business. The failure of any of these third parties to adequately provide the needed services could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may make acquisitions in the future, which may lead to disruptions to our ongoing business. We have made a number of acquisitions and will continue to review new acquisition opportunities. If we are unable to successfully integrate an acquired company, the acquisition could lead to disruptions to the business. The success of an acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to: · assimilate the operations and services or products of the acquired company; · integrate acquired personnel; · retain and motivate key employees; · retain customers; and · minimize the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. Acquisitions of foreign companies may also involve additional risks, including assimilating differences in foreign business practices and overcoming language and cultural barriers. In the event that the operations of an acquired business do not meet our performance expectations, we may have to restructure the acquired business or write-off the value of some or all of the assets of the acquired business. We rely on our interactive voice response systems to provide accurate information regarding the randomization of patients and the dosage required for patients enrolled in the trials. We develop and maintain computer run interactive voice response systems to automatically manage the randomization of patients in trials, assign study drug, and adjust the dosage when required for patients enrolled in trials we support. An error in the design, programming or validation of these systems could lead to inappropriate assignment or dosing of patients which could give rise to patient safety issues, invalidation of the trial, liability claims against the Company or all three. We rely on various control measures to mitigate the risk of a serious adverse event resulting from healthy volunteer Phase I trials. We conduct healthy volunteer Phase I trials including first-into-man trials for new clinical entities in the UK and the US. Due to the experimental nature of these studies, serious adverse events may arise. We mitigate such events by following Good Clinical Practice and ensuring appropriately trained and experienced clinical physicians are managing these trials and that internal Standards Operating Procedures and client protocols are rigorously adhered to. We also ensure that a signed contract is in place with the client in advance of clinical dosing with appropriate indemnifications and insurance coverage. We maintain our own no-faults clinical trial insurance. Following our internal review and submission, an Independent Ethics committee approves the study protocol and appropriate approval is obtained from the UK regulatory body. 7 