Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future results and the market price for our stock are subject to numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. The following discussion, as well as other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K including Item 7 – Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, describes certain risk factors related to our business. You should carefully consider the risk factors described below in conjunction with the other information in this document. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We may continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flow. We have sold or disposed of all our revenue generating operations and assets. At December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $517 million. Our ability to generate net income and to achieve profitability and positive cash flow depends on the amount of interest paid on the investment of our cash in cash equivalents and other short term investments and on our success in identifying and acquiring, or investing in, one or more operating businesses. We are executing an asset redeployment strategy. There can be no assurance that the redeployment strategy will be successful. We have sold or disposed of all our revenue generating operations and assets. We are currently attempting to redeploy our existing assets, consisting of cash and cash equivalents, by identifying and acquiring, or investing in, one or more operating businesses with existing or prospective taxable income, or from which we can realize capital gains, that can be offset by use of our net operating loss carry-forwards (“NOLs”). No candidate for acquisition or investment has yet been identified, and no assurance can be given that we will find suitable candidates, and if we do, that we will be able to utilize our existing NOLs. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or investment. We have been working without success since 2005 to identify and consummate suitable acquisitions or investments. In identifying, evaluating and selecting a target business for acquisition or investment, we expect to encounter competition from other entities having business objectives similar to ours including other blank check companies, private equity groups, venture capital funds, and operating businesses seeking strategic acquisitions. Many of these entities are well-established and have extensive experience identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Moreover, many of these competitors possess greater financial, technical, human and other resources than we which will give them a competitive advantage in pursuing the acquisition of, or investment in, certain target businesses. Even if we identify an appropriate acquisition or investment opportunity, we may be unable to negotiate favorable terms for that acquisition. 5 If we are not successful in executing our redeployment strategy we will continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flow and may at some point decide to liquidate and return the net proceeds to our stockholders. However, we believe we have adequate cash resources to continue to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities as a company through 2010. We will incur significant costs in connection with our evaluation of potential acquisition and investment candidates. As part of our plan to redeploy our assets, our management is seeking, analyzing and evaluating potential acquisition and investment candidates. We will incur significant costs, such as due diligence and legal and other professional fees and expenses, as part of these redeployment and other investments efforts. Notwithstanding these efforts and expenditures, we cannot give any assurance that we will identify an appropriate acquisition or investment opportunity in the near term, or at all. We will likely have no operating history in our new line of business or other investments, which are yet to be determined, and therefore we will be subject to the risks inherent in establishing a new business. We have not identified what our new line of business will be and, therefore, we cannot fully describe the specific risks presented by such a business. It is likely that we will have had no operating history in the new line of business and it is possible that the target company may have a limited operating history in its business. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our future operations will generate operating or net income, and as such our success will be subject to the risks, expenses, problems, and delays inherent in establishing a new line of business for us. The ultimate success of such new business cannot be assured. The reporting requirements under rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to shell companies may delay or prevent us from making certain acquisitions. We are deemed to be a "shell company" under rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The rules are designed to ensure that investors in shell companies that acquire operations have timely access to the same kind of information as is available to investors in public companies generally. The rules require a shell company to include extensive registration-level information on Form 8-K to report the acquisition of a business. The extensive registration-level information includes a detailed description of an acquired company’s business and properties, management, executive compensation, related party transactions, legal proceedings and historical market price information, as well as audited historical financial statements and management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. The revised Form 8-K rules also require a shell company to file pro forma financial statements giving effect to the acquisition not later than four business days after completion of the acquisition, instead of 75 days as required by non-shell companies. Complying with the shell company rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission may increase the difficulty of our ability to identify and acquire an operating business adversely affecting our ability to successfully implement our redeployment strategy. The time and additional costs that may be incurred by some acquisition prospects to prepare such detailed disclosures and obtain audited financial statements may significantly delay or essentially preclude consummation of an otherwise desirable acquisition by us, or deter potential targets from negotiating with us. We may be unable to realize the benefits of our net operating loss carry-forwards ("NOLs"). NOLs may be carried forward to offset federal and state taxable income in future years and eliminate income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income, subject to certain adjustments. Based on current federal corporate income tax rates, our NOLs and other carry-forwards could provide a benefit to us, if fully utilized, of significant future tax savings. However, our ability to use these tax benefits in future years will depend upon the amount of our otherwise taxable income. If we do not have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the tax benefits before they expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOLs permanently. Consequently, our ability to use the tax benefits associated with our substantial NOLs will depend significantly on our success in identifying suitable acquisition or investment candidates, and once identified, successfully consummating an acquisition of or investment in these candidates. 6 Additionally, if we underwent an ownership change, the NOLs would be subject to an annual limit on the amount of the taxable income that may be offset by our NOLs generated prior to the ownership change. If an ownership change were to occur, we may be unable to use a significant portion of our NOLs to offset taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs when, as of any testing date, the aggregate of the increase in percentage points is more than 50 percentage points of the total amount of a corporation's stock owned by "5-percent stockholders," within the meaning of the NOLs limitations, whose percentage ownership of the stock has increased as of such date over the lowest percentage of the stock owned by each such "5-percent stockholder" at any time during the three-year period preceding such date. In general, persons who own 5% or more of a corporation's stock are "5-percent stockholders," and all other persons who own less than 5% of a corporation's stock are treated, together, as a single, public group "5-percent stockholder," regardless of whether they own an aggregate of 5% of a corporation's stock. The amount of NOLs that we have claimed has not been audited or otherwise validated by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). The IRS could challenge our calculation of the amount of our NOLs or our determinations as to when a prior change in ownership occurred and other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to carry forward our NOLs to offset taxable income in future years. If the IRS was successful with respect to any such challenge, the potential tax benefit of the NOLs to us could be substantially reduced. Certain transfer restrictions implemented by us to preserve our net operating loss carryforwards may not be effective or may have some unintended negative effects. On November 15, 2005, at our 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, our stockholders approved an amendment to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to restrict certain acquisitions of our securities in order to help assure the preservation of our NOLs. The amendment generally restricts direct and indirect acquisitions of our equity securities if such acquisition will affect the percentage of our capital stock that is treated as owned by a "5-percent stockholder." Although the transfer restrictions imposed on our capital stock are intended to reduce the likelihood of an impermissible ownership change, there is no guarantee that such restrictions would prevent all transfers that would result in an impermissible ownership change. The transfer restrictions also will require any person attempting to acquire a significant interest in us to seek the approval of our board of directors. This may have an "anti-takeover" effect because our board of directors may be able to prevent any future takeover. Similarly, any limits on the amount of capital stock that a stockholder may own could have the effect of making it more difficult for stockholders to replace current management. Additionally, because the transfer restrictions will have the effect of restricting a stockholder's ability to dispose of or acquire our common stock, the liquidity and market value of our common stock might suffer. We could be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could significantly limit our ability to operate and acquire an established business. The Investment Company Act of 1940 (the "Investment Company Act") requires registration, as an investment company, for companies that are engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding, or trading securities. We have sought to qualify for an exclusion from registration including the exclusion available to a company that does not own "investment securities" with a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets on an unconsolidated basis, excluding government securities and cash items. This exclusion, however, could be disadvantageous to us and/or our stockholders. If we were unable to rely on an exclusion under the Investment Company Act and were deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would be forced to comply with substantive requirements of the Investment Company Act, including: (i) limitations on our ability to borrow; (ii) limitations on our capital structure; (iii) restrictions on acquisitions of interests in associated companies; (iv) prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; (v) restrictions on specific investments; (vi) limitations on our ability to issue stock options; and (vii) compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure, and other rules and regulations. Registration as an investment company would subject us to restrictions that would significantly impair our ability to pursue our fundamental business strategy of acquiring and operating an established business. In the event the SEC or a court took the position that we were an investment company, our failure to register as an investment company would not only raise the possibility of an enforcement action by the SEC or an adverse judgment by a court, but also could threaten the validity of corporate actions and contracts entered into by us during the period we were deemed to be an unregistered investment company. Moreover, the SEC could seek an enforcement action against us to the extent we were not in compliance with the Investment Company Act during any point in time. 7 If we cannot obtain director and officer liability insurance in acceptable amounts for acceptable rates, we may have difficulty recruiting and retaining qualified directors and officers. Like most other public companies, we carry insurance protecting our officers and directors against claims relating to the conduct of our business. This insurance covers, among other things, the costs incurred by companies and their management to defend against and resolve claims relating to management conduct and results of operations, such as securities class action claims. These claims typically are expensive to defend against and resolve. We pay significant premiums to acquire and maintain this insurance, which is provided by third-party insurers, and we agree to underwrite a portion of such exposures under the terms of the insurance coverage. One consequence of the current economic downturn and decline in stock prices has been a substantial increase in the number of securities class actions and similar claims brought against public corporations and their management, including the company and certain of its current and former officers and directors. Consequently, insurers providing director and officer liability insurance have in recent periods sharply increased the premiums they charge for this insurance, raised retentions (that is, the amount of liability that a company is required to pay to defend and resolve a claim before any applicable insurance is provided), and limited the amount of insurance they will provide. Moreover, insurers typically provide only one-year policies. The insurance policies that may cover any current securities claims against us have a $500,000 retention. As a result, the costs we incur in defending such claims will not be reimbursed until they exceed $500,000. The policies that would cover any future claims may not provide any coverage to us and may cover the directors and officers only in the event we are unwilling or unable to cover their costs in defending against and resolving any future claims. As a result, our costs in defending any future claims could increase significantly. Particularly in the current economic environment, we cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to obtain sufficient director and officer liability insurance coverage at acceptable rates and with acceptable deductibles and other limitations. Failure to obtain such insurance could materially harm our financial condition in the event that we are required to defend against and resolve any future or existing securities class actions or other claims made against us or our management arising from the conduct of our operations. Further, the inability to obtain such insurance in adequate amounts may impair our future ability to retain and recruit qualified officers and directors. Our earnings are sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates. Our business no longer generates any revenues as we ceased all customer operations as of December 31, 2006. Our net income depends on the amount of interest paid on the investment of our cash in cash equivalents and other short term investments. Accordingly, our earnings are subject to risks and uncertainties surrounding changes in the interest rate environment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK Failure to execute our redeployment strategy could cause our stock price to decline. Our stock price may decline due to any or all of the following potential occurrences: · we may not be able to find suitable acquisition or investment candidates or may not be able to acquire suitable candidates with our limited financial resources; · we may not be able to utilize our existing NOLs to offset future earnings; and, · we may have difficulty retaining our board of directors or attracting suitable qualified candidates should a director resign. We may issue a substantial amount of our common stock in the future which could cause dilution to new investors and otherwise adversely affect our stock price. A key element of our growth strategy is to make acquisitions. As part of our acquisition strategy, we may issue additional shares of common stock as consideration for such acquisitions. These issuances could be significant. To the extent that we make acquisitions or other investments and issue our shares of common stock as consideration or investments, your equity interest in us will be diluted. Any such issuance will also increase the number of outstanding shares of common stock that will be eligible for sale in the future. Persons receiving shares of our common stock in connection with these acquisitions may be more likely to sell their common stock, which may influence the price of our common stock. In addition, the potential issuance of additional shares in connection with anticipated acquisitions could lessen demand for our common stock and result in a lower price than might otherwise be obtained. We may issue common stock in the future for other purposes as well, including in connection with financings, for compensation purposes, in connection with strategic transactions, or for other purposes. Our common stock is no longer listed on the NASDAQ National Market. Our common stock currently trades in the over the counter market and is quoted on the Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service under the symbol “COSN.PK.” Our common stock had been traded on the NASDAQ National Market under the symbol COSN from our initial public offering in September 2000 through June 15, 2005, when we were de-listed from the NASDAQ National Market System. As a result of the delisting, the liquidity of our stock may be reduced, our shareholders may experience difficulty in buying or selling our common stock at competitive prices or at all and the price of our common stock may decline. 8 Our stock price has been volatile. Our stock price has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to our operating performance. Please see Item 5 of this Annual Report for the high and low quarterly closing prices of our common stock for the last two fiscal years. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 