Item 1A Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects are subject to the following risks. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently foreseeable to us may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and our stockholders may lose all or part of their investment in the shares of our common stock. You should carefully consider the risks described below before buying our common stock. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, that event could cause the market value of our common stock to decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our independent accountants have included an explanatory paragraph in their audit report raising substantial doubt as to the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern due to the Company’s history of losses, negative cash flow from operations, and its working capital deficiency. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. The Company incurred a $14.2 million loss from operations during the year ended June 30, 2013. Our operations in the year ended June 30, 2013 resulted in a net use of cash of $8.3 million. At June 30, 2013 we had a $9.8 million working capital deficiency. These matters raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. That doubt is expressed in the audit report of our independent auditor for the year ended June 30, 2013. If our Company is unable to continue as a going concern, investors in the Company will incur a loss. Our sales revenue remains small and mainly derived from a few products. A disruption in, or a compromise of, our manufacturing or sales operations, or distribution channels related to any of these products could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We only reached a modest level of sales for the year ended June 30, 2013, mainly derived from a few products approved by the China SFDA. We expect these products will continue to account for a majority of our sales in the next one or two years until our new products are approved, launched and become accepted by the market. Because of our dependence on a few products, any disruption in, or compromise of, our manufacturing operations, sales operations or distribution channels, relating to any of these products could result in our failure to meet shipping and delivery deadlines or meet quality standards, which in turn could result in the cancellation of purchase orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We lack sufficient capital to fully carry out our business plan. In order to make our operations cost-efficient, it is necessary that we expand our operations. At the present time, however, our capital resources are sparse. We are exploring various alternatives to improve our financial position and secure other sources of financing. Such possibilities include a new credit facility, new equity raise, new arrangements to license intellectual property, the sales of selected property rights. If we are unable to secure the necessary capital, we may be unable to achieve the size of operations necessary for profitable operations. 7 Intense competition from existing and new companies may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We compete with other companies, many of whom are developing, or can be expected to develop, products similar to ours. Some of our competitors are more established than we are, have greater brand recognition of products that compete with ours, have more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we presently possess and a larger customer base. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities and customer requirements and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to customers or adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer side effects, are less expensive or have more attractive product characteristics than our current products or products that we may develop in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not harm our business. Most of our pipeline products contain narcotic ingredients. As a result of reports of misuse or abuse of prescription narcotics, the sale of such drugs may be subject to new regulation, which may prove difficult or expensive to comply with, and we and other pharmaceutical companies may face lawsuits. Most of our core pipeline products contain narcotic ingredients. Misuse or abuse of such drugs can lead to physical or other harm. For example, in the past two years, reportedly widespread misuse or abuse of OxyContin®, a product of Purdue Pharma L.P., or Purdue, containing the narcotic oxycodone, resulted in the strengthening of warnings on its labeling. In addition, we believe that Purdue, the manufacturer of OxyContin®, faces or did face numerous lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, related to OxyContin® misuse or abuse. We may be subject to litigation similar to the OxyContin® suits related to our generic version of oxycodone or any other narcotic containing product that we market. The China SFDA and Department of Health may impose new regulations concerning the research and development, manufacture, storage, transportation and sale of prescription narcotics. Such regulations may include new labeling requirements, the development and implementation of formal risk minimization action plans, restrictions on prescription and sale of these products. The Chinese government and its agencies could require companies to formulate risk evaluation and mitigation strategies to ensure a drug’s benefits outweigh its risks. In addition, the government and its agencies have authority to regulate distribution and may modify their regulations with respect to prescription narcotics in an attempt to curb abuse. In either case, any such new regulations or requirements may be difficult and expensive for us to comply with, may delay our introduction of new products, may adversely affect our net sales and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on our key management personnel and the loss of their services could adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management. We place substantial reliance upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers. The loss of services of any of these individuals or one or more other members of our senior management could delay or prevent the successful execution of our business objectives and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Replacing key employees may be difficult and costly and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to develop and commercialize products successfully. We do not maintain “key person” insurance policies on the lives of these individuals or the lives of any of our other employees. The Company has entered into employment agreements with these individuals. We will need to hire additional personnel as we expand our commercial activities. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management on acceptable terms in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel in our industry. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede these objectives. 8 We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete acquisitions or successfully integrate new businesses into our own. We intend to pursue opportunities to grow our business by acquiring businesses, products and technologies that are complementary or related to our existing product lines. Successful completion of an acquisition depends on a number of factors that are not entirely within our control, including our ability to negotiate acceptable terms, conclude satisfactory agreements and obtain all necessary regulatory approvals. We may not be able to locate suitable acquisition candidates at prices that we consider appropriate. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may face competition from other companies interested in acquiring the target company that has greater financial and other resources than we have. Acquisitions of businesses, products, technologies or other material operations may require debt financing or additional equity financing, resulting in leverage or dilution of ownership. Even if we complete one or more strategic transactions, we may be unable to integrate or coordinate successfully the personnel and operations of a business. Integration of acquired business operations could disrupt our business by diverting management away from day-to-day operations. The difficulties of integration may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. We also may not be able to maintain key employees or customers of an acquired business or realize cost efficiencies or synergies or other benefits we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates. In addition, we may incur non-recurring severance expenses, restructuring charges and change of control payments and may need to record write-downs from future impairments of intangible assets, which could reduce our future reported earnings. At times, acquisition candidates may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence prior to the acquisition. In addition to the above, acquisitions in China, including of state owned businesses, will be required to comply with laws of the PRC, to the extent applicable. There can be no assurance that any proposed acquisition will be able to comply with PRC requirements, rules and/or regulations, or that we will successfully obtain governmental approvals to the extent required, which may be necessary to consummate such acquisitions. If we fail to manage our growth and current operations, we may not achieve future growth or our expected revenues. In order to maximize potential growth in our current and potential markets, we believe that we must expand our manufacturing and marketing operations. To this end, we are and expect to continue to substantially increase our employee headcount which will place a significant strain on our management and on our operational, accounting, and information systems. Our need to manage our operations and growth effectively requires us to continue to expend funds to improve our financial controls, operating procedures, management information systems, reporting systems and procedures to manage our increased operations. If we are unable to implement improvements to our management information and control systems successfully in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in our existing systems and controls, then management may receive inadequate information to manage our day-to-day operations. We will also need to effectively train, motivate and manage our employees. Our failure to manage our growth could disrupt our operations and ultimately prevent us from generating the revenues we expect. We may be unable to secure the government licenses that are necessary for us to engage in the sale of analgesic pharmaceuticals. The manufacture and marketing of narcotic drugs is highly regulated in China. Prior to marketing any of our products, we are required to satisfy several government protocols, and receive several licenses from the national and local governments. Obtaining these licenses can be expensive and it is usually time consuming. If we are unable to obtain the necessary licenses when we need to have them, our business plan will be delayed. If the delays prevent us from generating positive cash flow or introducing a significant number of products, our business may fail. 9 We may have difficulty defending our intellectual property rights from infringement which may undermine our competitive position. We have been designing and developing new technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secret laws, and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Unauthorized use of our technology could damage our ability to compete effectively. We regard our service marks, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on trademark, patent and trade secret law, as well as confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary rights. Certain of our products have received trademark and patent protection in China. No assurance can be given that such patents and licenses will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or that such intellectual property rights will provide a competitive advantage to us. Our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Policing the unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. The outcome of such potential litigation may not be in our favor and any success in litigation may not be able to adequately protect our rights. Such litigation may be costly and divert management attention away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation would impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. Enforcement of judgments in China is uncertain and even if we are successful in such litigation it may not provide us with an effective remedy. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses from third-parties that we may need to conduct our business or that such licenses can be obtained at a reasonable cost. In addition, third parties may file infringement claims against us asserting that we are infringing on their patents or trademarks. In the event that such claims are filed, regardless of the merit of such a claim, we may incur substantial costs and diversion of management as a result of our involvement in such proceedings. We are dependent on third parties to supply all raw materials used in our products and to provide services for certain core aspects of our business. Any interruption or failure by these suppliers, distributors and collaboration partners to meet their obligations pursuant to various agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third parties to supply all raw materials used in our products. In addition, we rely on third party suppliers, distributors and collaboration partners to provide services for certain core aspects of our business, including manufacturing, warehousing, distribution, customer service support, medical affairs services, clinical studies, sales and other technical and financial services. All third party suppliers and contractors are subject to the China SFDA, and government agency requirements. Our business and financial viability are dependent on the regulatory compliance of these third parties, and on the strength, validity and terms of our various contracts with these third party manufacturers, distributors and collaboration partners. Any interruption or failure by these suppliers, distributors and collaboration partners to meet their obligations pursuant to various agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 The government limits the availability of the active ingredients used in many of our current products and products in development and, as a result, our procurement quota may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. The Chinese government and SFDA regulate the access and supplies of chemical compounds in some of our current products and products in development, including oxycodone, codeine, buprenorphine, Tilidine. Consequently, their manufacture, shipment, storage, sale and use are subject to a high degree of regulation. Furthermore, the government limits the availability of the active ingredients used in many of our current products and products in development and, as a result, our procurement quota of these active ingredients may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. We must annually apply to the government agencies for procurement quota in order to obtain these substances. Any delay or refusal by the agencies in establishing our procurement quota for controlled substances could delay or stop our clinical trials, product launches or could cause trade inventory disruptions for those products that have already been launched, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Timing and results of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of products as well as the SFDA’s approval of products are uncertain. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the sale of our products, we must demonstrate through preclinical studies and clinical trials that the product is safe and effective for each intended use. Preclinical and clinical studies may fail to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of a product. A failure to demonstrate safety and efficacy would result in our failure to obtain regulatory approvals. The rate of patient enrollment sometimes delays completion of clinical studies. There is substantial competition to enroll patients in clinical, and such competition has delayed clinical development of our products in the past. Delays in planned patient enrollment can result in increased development costs and delays in regulatory approval. In addition, we rely on collaboration partners that may control or make changes in trial protocol and design enhancements that may also delay clinical trials. We cannot assure you that we will not experience delays or undesired results in these or any other of our clinical trials. We cannot assure you that the SFDA or other regulatory agencies will approve any products developed by us, on a timely basis, if at all, or, if granted, that such approval will not subject the marketing of our products to certain limits on indicated use. Any limitation on use imposed by the SFDA or delay in or failure to obtain SFDA approvals of products developed by us would adversely affect the marketing of these products and our ability to generate product revenue, as well as adversely affect the price of our common stock. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for certain generic products, we must conduct limited clinical or other trials to show comparability to the branded products. A failure to obtain satisfactory results in these trials would prevent us from obtaining required regulatory approvals. We do not have product liability insurance and we could be exposed to substantial liability. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in adverse side effects. Adverse side effects, marketing or manufacturing problems pertaining to any of our products could result in: • decreased demand for our products; • adverse publicity resulting in injury to our reputation; • product liability claims and significant litigation costs; • substantial monetary awards to or costly settlements with consumers; • product recalls; • loss of revenues; or • the inability to commercialize future products. 11 These risks will exist for those products in clinical development and with respect to those products that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale or any product we may acquire. To date, we have not experienced any product liability claims. However, that does not mean that we will not have any such claims with respect to our products in the future. We do not carry product liability insurance. The lack of product liability insurance exposes us to risks associated with potential product liability claims, which can be significant. The pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, which creates uncertainty about our ability to bring new products to market and imposes substantial compliance costs on our business. The China SFDA, as well as Department of Health, imposes substantial requirements on the development, manufacture, labeling, sale, distribution, marketing, advertising, promotion and introduction of therapeutic narcotic pharmaceutical products through lengthy and detailed laboratory and clinical testing and other costly and time-consuming procedures. The submission of a drug application alone does not guarantee that the SFDA will grant approval to market the product. Satisfaction of SFDA requirements typically takes a number of years, varies substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the pharmaceutical product and is subject to uncertainty. The drug approval process varies in time, could take several years from the date of application. The timing for the approval process is difficult to estimate and can vary significantly. The current SFDA standards of approving pharmaceutical products are more stringent than those that were applied in the past. These standards were not applied to many established products currently on the market, including certain narcotics products. We cannot assure you that the SFDA or other regulatory agencies will approve any products developed by us, on a timely basis, if at all, or, if granted, that approval will not entail limiting the indicated uses for which we may market the product, which could limit the potential market for any of these products. The State Food and Drug Administration of China require pharmaceutical manufacturers to obtain Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP, certifications. We have received our certifications. However, should we fail to receive or maintain the GMP certifications in the future, we would no longer be able to manufacture pharmaceuticals in China, and our businesses would be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, the laws and regulations regarding acquisitions in the pharmaceutical industry in China may change, which could significantly impact our ability to grow through acquisitions. Certain political and economic considerations relating to China could adversely affect our company. China is transitioning from a planned economy to a market economy. While the PRC government has pursued economic reforms since its adoption of the open-door policy in 1978, a large portion of the Chinese economy is still operating under five-year plans and annual state plans. Through these plans and other economic measures, such as control on foreign exchange, taxation and restrictions on foreign participation in the domestic market of various industries, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the economy. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the PRC government are unprecedented or experimental, and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of such reforms. This refining and readjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations or future business development. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in China’s economic and social conditions as well as by changes in the policies of the PRC government, such as changes in laws and regulations, or the official interpretation thereof, which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the interest rate or method of taxation, and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. 12 Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Our operations in the PRC are subject to the laws and regulations of the PRC and any changes in the laws or policies of the PRC may have a material impact on our operations and financial performance. As our drug products businesses are carried out in the PRC, we are subject to and have to operate within the framework of the PRC legal system. Any changes in the laws or policies of the PRC or the implementation thereof, for example in areas such as foreign exchange controls, tariffs, trade barriers, taxes, export license requirements and environmental protection, may have a material impact on our operations and financial performance. The corporate affairs of our companies in the PRC are governed by their articles of association and the corporate and foreign investment laws and regulations of the PRC. The principles of the PRC laws relating to matters such as the fiduciary duties of directors and other corporate governance matters and foreign investment laws in the PRC are relatively new. Hence, the enforcement of investors or shareholders' rights under the articles of association of a PRC company and the interpretation of the relevant laws relating to corporate governance matters remain largely untested in the PRC. Introduction of new laws or changes to existing laws by the PRC government may adversely affect our business if stricter regulations are imposed on the overseas business practices of PRC companies. Our operations are carried out through our subsidiaries which are located in the PRC. As such, the laws of the PRC govern our businesses and operations. The PRC legal system is a codified system of written laws, regulations, circulars, administrative directives and internal guidelines. The PRC government is still in the process of developing its legal system to encourage foreign investment and to align itself with global practices and standards. As the PRC economy is undergoing development at a faster rate than the changes to its legal system, some degree of uncertainty exists in connection with whether and how existing laws and regulations apply to certain events and circumstances. Some of the laws and regulations and the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of such laws and regulations are also at an experimental stage and are subject to policy changes. Hence, precedents on the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of certain PRC laws are limited and court decisions in the PRC do not have binding effect on lower courts. Accordingly, the outcome of dispute resolutions and litigation may not be as consistent or predictable as in other more developed jurisdictions and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of the laws in the PRC, or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court or another jurisdiction. There is no assurance that these PRC authorities will not issue further directives, regulations, clarifications or implementation rules requiring us to obtain further approvals in relation to our public listing in the U.S. Restrictions under PRC law on our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make dividends and other distributions could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our business, pay dividends to you, and otherwise fund and conduct our business. All of our sales are earned by our PRC subsidiaries. However, PRC regulations restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make dividends and other payments to their offshore parent company. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our PRC subsidiaries are also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of their annual after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC GAAP to a statutory general reserve fund until the amounts in said fund reaches 50% of our registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserve funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances, or cash dividends. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. 13 Furthermore, our PRC subsidiaries, which are foreign investment entities (“FIEs”), are subject to the PRC rules and regulations on currency conversion. In the PRC, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) regulates the conversion of the RMB into foreign currencies. Currently, foreign investment enterprises (including wholly foreign-owned enterprises) are required to apply to the SAFE for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates for FIEs”. With such registration certification (which have to be renewed annually), FIEs are allowed to open foreign currency accounts including the “current account” and “capital account”. Currently, transactions within the scope of the "current account" (for example, remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends) can be effected without requiring the approval of the SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account” (for example, for capital items such as direct investments, loans and securities) still requires the approval of the SAFE. Anti-corruption measures taken by the government to correct corruptive practices in the pharmaceutical industry could adversely affect our sales and reputation. The government has recently taken anti-corruption measures to correct corrupt practices in the pharmaceutical industry, including, among others, acceptance of kickbacks, bribery or other illegal gains or benefits by the hospitals and medical practitioners from pharmaceutical distributors in connection with the prescription of a certain drug. Substantially all of our sales to our ultimate customers are conducted through third-party distributors. We have no control over our third-party distributors, who may engage in corrupt practices to promote our products. While we maintain strict anti-corruption policies applicable to our internal sales force and third-party distributors, these policies may not be effective. If any of our third-party distributors engage in such practices and the government takes enforcement action, our products may be seized and our own practices and involvement in the distributors’ practices may be investigated. If this occurs, our sales and reputation may be materially and adversely affected. We may never pay any dividends to our stockholders. We have not paid any cash dividends on shares of our common stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and future earnings, if any, to support our operations and finance the growth and development of our business. Our board of directors does not intend to distribute dividends in the foreseeable future. The declaration, payment and amount of future dividends, if any, will be made at the discretion of the board of directors, and will depend upon, among other things, the results of our operations, cash flows and financial condition, operating and capital requirements, and other factors the board of directors considers relevant. There is no assurance that future dividends will be paid, and if dividends are paid, there is no assurance with respect to the amount of any such dividend. Capital outflow policies in China may hamper our ability to pay dividends to shareholders in the United States. The People’s Republic of China has adopted currency and capital transfer regulations. These regulations require that we comply with complex regulations for the movement of capital. Although Chinese governmental policies were introduced in 1996 to allow the convertibility of RMB into foreign currency for current account items, conversion of RMB into foreign exchange for capital items, such as foreign direct investment, loans or securities, requires the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. We may be unable to obtain all of the required conversion approvals for our operations, and Chinese regulatory authorities may impose greater restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB in the future. Because most of our future revenues will be in RMB, any inability to obtain the requisite approvals or any future restrictions on currency exchanges will limit our ability to fund our business activities outside China or to pay dividends to our shareholders. 14 Our business development would be hindered if we lost the services of our Chairman. Zhenjiang Yue is the Chief Executive Officer of Aoxing Pharma and of its operating subsidiary, Hebei Aoxing Pharmaceutical Group. Mr. Yue is responsible for strategizing not only our business plan but also the means of financing it. If Mr. Yue were to leave Hebei Aoxing or become unable to fulfill his responsibilities, our business would be imperiled. At the very least, there would be a delay in the development of Hebei Aoxing until a suitable replacement for Mr. Yue could be retained. The Chinese government does not permit our auditor, or any other independent registered public accounting firm operating in China, to be inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, so investors will be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. The independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditor is located in China, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is currently not inspected by PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that PCAOB has conducted outside of China have, at times, identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The inability of PCAOB to conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms operating in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures. As a result, investors will be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. During our annual assessment, we identified a material weakness in our internal controls, specifically related to our staff’s lack of expertise with respect to generally accepted accounting standards of the United States of America (“US GAAP”). Our reporting obligations as a public company place a significant strain on our management and operational and financial resources and systems. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to valuation of assets, equity compensation and revenue recognition are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting may result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn may harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our stock. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The value of our securities will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position, the business of the company, and the price of our common stock may be harmed. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. 15 AOB has significant influence over the outcome of matters submitted to Shareholders for approval. As of June 30, 2013, American Oriental Bioengineering, Inc. (“AOB”) owned approximately 33.7% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, AOB can exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the appointment of our directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. AOB’s ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer. Negative publicity may adversely affect our share price. Recently, U.S. public companies that have substantially all of their operations in China, particularly companies like Aoxing Pharma that have completed reverse merger transactions, have been the subject of intense scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity by investors, financial commentators and regulatory agencies, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. Much of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity has centered around financial and accounting irregularities and mistakes, a lack of effective internal controls over financial accounting, inadequate corporate governance policies or a lack of adherence thereto and, in some cases, allegations of fraud. As a result of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity, the publicly traded stock of many U.S. listed Chinese companies has sharply decreased in value and, in some cases, has become virtually worthless. Many of these companies are now subject to shareholder lawsuits, SEC enforcement actions and are conducting internal and external investigations into the allegations. It is not clear what effect this sector-wide scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity will have on our Company, our business and our stock price. If we become the subject of any unfavorable allegations, whether such allegations are proven to be true or untrue, we will have to expend significant resources to investigate such allegations and/or defend our Company. This situation will be costly and time consuming and distract our management from growing our Company. If such allegations are not proven to be groundless, our Company and business operations could be severely impacted and your investment in our stock could be rendered worthless. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 