ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We May be Unable to Compete Effectively in the Competitive Worldwide Footwear Retailing Industry We face a variety of competitive challenges from other domestic and international footwear retailers, including a number of competitors that have substantially greater financial and marketing resources than we do. These competitors include mass-market discount retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., and Target Corporation; department stores such as Kohl’s Corporation, J.C. Penney Company, Inc., Dillard’s, Inc. and Nordstrom, Inc.; other retailers such as Brown Shoe Company, Inc., The Children’s Place Retail Stores, Inc., and The Gymboree Corporation; and wholesalers such as Crocs, Inc., Sketchers USA, Inc., and Nike, Inc.. We compete with these footwear retailers on the basis of: • developing fashionable, high-quality merchandise in an assortment of sizes, colors and styles that appeals to our target consumers; • anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; • ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain effectiveness; • the pricing of merchandise; • creating an acceptable value proposition for consumers; • providing an inviting, customer friendly shopping environment; • using a customer focused sales staff to provide attentive, product knowledgeable customer service; and • providing strong and effective marketing support. Competition in the retail footwear industry has increased. Mass-market discount retailers aggressively compete with us on the basis of price and have added significant numbers of locations, gaining market share as a result. Accordingly, there is substantial pressure on us to maintain the value proposition of our footwear. In addition, it is possible that mass-market discount retailers will increase their investment in their retail footwear operations, thereby achieving greater market penetration and placing additional competitive pressures on our business. If we are unable to respond effectively to these competitive pressures, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Worldwide Footwear Retailing Industry is Heavily Influenced by General Economic Cycles Footwear retailing is a cyclical industry that is heavily dependent upon the overall level of consumer spending. Purchases of footwear and related goods tend to be highly correlated with the cycles of the levels of disposable income of our consumers. As a result, any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions could adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. The current significant challenges facing the global economy in 2008 and the highly uncertain global economic outlook have materially adversely affected consumer confidence and spending levels. We believe that these conditions are likely to persist throughout 2009. These conditions and severe credit market disruptions, among other factors, have also materially adversely affected the global footwear retailing industry. We are currently taking steps to mitigate the current environment including managing our operating structure and focusing our capital on high return investments. If we are unable to mitigate the impact of the challenging global economy, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents A Majority of our Operating Expenses are Fixed Costs that are not Directly Dependent Upon our Sales Performance. As a Result, Declines in our Operating Performance may be Magnified if We are Unable to Reduce Expenses in Response to a Sales Shortfall A majority of our operating expenses are fixed costs that are not directly dependent on our sales performance, as opposed to variable costs, which increase as sales volume increases. These fixed costs include the leasing costs of our stores, our debt service expenses and the majority of our labor expenses. If our sales were to decline, we may be unable to reduce or offset these fixed operating expenses in the short term. Accordingly, the effect of any sales decline is magnified because a larger percentage of our earnings are committed to paying these fixed costs. As a result, our net earnings and cash flow could be disproportionately negatively affected as a result of a decline in sales. We May be Unable to Maintain or Increase our Sales Volume and Margins Our Payless stores have a substantial market presence in all 50 states and the District of Columbia and we currently derive a significant majority of our revenue from our U.S. stores. Our Stride Rite retail stores and our Stride Rite wholesale businesses derive a significant majority of their revenue from U.S. sources. Because of our substantial market presence, and because the U.S. footwear retailing industry is mature, for us to increase our sales volume on a unit basis and margins in the United States, we must capture market share from our competitors. We have attempted to capture additional market share through a variety of strategies; however, if we are not successful we may be unable to increase or maintain our sales volumes and margins in the United States, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. We May Have Unseasonable Weather Where our Stores are Concentrated We increase our inventory levels to support the increased demand for our products, as well as to offer styles particularly suited for the relevant season, such as sandals in the early summer season and boots during the winter season. If the weather conditions for a particular season vary significantly from those typical for such season, such as an unusually cold early summer or an unusually warm winter, consumer demand for the seasonally appropriate merchandise that we have available in our stores could be adversely affected and negatively impact net sales and margins. Lower demand for seasonally appropriate merchandise may leave us with an excess inventory of our seasonally appropriate products and/or basic products, forcing us to sell both types of products at significantly discounted prices and adversely affecting our net sales margins and operating cash flow. Consequently, our results of operations are highly dependent on somewhat predictable weather conditions. We May be Unable to Adjust to Constantly Changing Fashion Trends Our success depends, in large part, upon our ability to gauge the evolving fashion tastes of our consumers and to provide merchandise that satisfies such fashion tastes in a timely manner. The worldwide retailing footwear industry fluctuates according to changing fashion tastes and seasons, and merchandise usually must be ordered well in advance of the season, frequently before consumer fashion tastes are evidenced by consumer purchases. In addition, the cyclical nature of the worldwide footwear retailing industry also requires us to maintain substantial levels of inventory, especially prior to peak selling seasons when we build up our inventory levels. As a result, if we fail to properly gauge the fashion tastes of consumers, or to respond in a timely manner, this failure could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our merchandise and leave us with substantial unsold inventory. If that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which would negatively impact financial results. The results of our wholesale businesses are affected by the buying plans of our customers, which include large department stores, as well as smaller retailers. No customer accounts for 10% or more of our wholesale business. Our wholesale customers may not inform us of changes in their buying plans until it is too late for us to make the necessary adjustments to our product lines and marketing strategies. While we believe that purchasing decisions in many cases are made independently by individual stores or store chains, we are exposed to decisions by the controlling owner of a store chain, to decrease the amount of footwear products purchased from us. In addition, the retail industry periodically experiences consolidation. We face a risk that our wholesale customers may consolidate, restructure, reorganize or realign in ways that could decrease the number of stores or the amount of shelf space that carry our products. We also face a risk that our wholesale customers could develop in-house brands or utilize the private labeling of footwear products, which would negatively impact financial results. 13 Table of Contents We May be Unsuccessful in Opening New Stores or Relocating Existing Stores to New Locations, Adversely Affecting our Ability to Grow Our growth is dependent upon our ability to expand our retail operations by opening and operating new stores, as well as relocating existing stores to new locations, on a profitable basis. Our ability to open new stores and relocate existing stores to new locations on a timely and profitable basis is subject to various contingencies, some of which are beyond our control. These contingencies include our ability to: • locate suitable store sites; • negotiate acceptable lease terms; • build-out or refurbish sites on a timely and cost effective basis; • hire, train and retain qualified managers and personnel; • obtain adequate capital resources; and • successfully integrate new stores into our existing operations. In addition, the opening of stores outside of the United States is subject to a number of additional contingencies, including compliance with local laws and regulations and cultural issues and, because we operate a number of our international stores under joint ventures, issues may arise in our dealings with our joint venture partners or their compliance with the joint venture agreements. We may be unsuccessful in opening new stores or relocating existing stores for any of these reasons. In addition, we cannot assure you that, even if we are successful in opening new stores or relocating existing stores, those stores will achieve levels of sales and profitability comparable to our existing stores. We Rely on Third Parties to Manufacture and Distribute Our Products We depend on contract manufacturers to manufacture the merchandise that we sell. If these contract manufacturers are unable to secure sufficient supplies of raw materials, or maintain adequate manufacturing and shipping capacity, they may be unable to provide us with timely delivery of products of acceptable quality. In addition, if the prices charged by these contractors increase for reasons such as increases in the price of raw materials, increases in labor costs or currency fluctuations, our cost of manufacturing would increase, adversely affecting our results of operations. We also depend on third parties to transport and deliver our products. Due to the fact that we do not have any independent transportation or delivery capabilities of our own, if these third parties are unable to transport or deliver our products for any reason, or if they increase the price of their services, including as a result of increases in the cost of fuel, our operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. We require our contract manufacturers to meet our standards in terms of working conditions and other matters before we are willing to contract with them to manufacture our merchandise. As a result, we may not be able to obtain the lowest possible manufacturing costs. In addition, any failure by our contract manufacturers to meet these standards, to adhere to labor or other laws or to diverge from our mandated labor practices, and the potential negative publicity relating to any of these events, could harm our business and reputation. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our contract manufacturers, and any of these manufacturers may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time. There is also substantial competition among footwear retailers for quality manufacturers. To the extent we are unable to secure or maintain relationships with quality manufacturers, our business could be harmed. There are Risks Associated with Our Importation of Products We import finished merchandise into the United States and other countries in which we operate from the People’s Republic of China and other countries. Substantially all of this imported merchandise is subject to customs, duties and tariffs imposed by the governments of countries into which this merchandise is imported, penalties imposed for, or adverse publicity relating to, violations of labor and wage standards by foreign contractors. The United States and countries in which our merchandise is manufactured or imported may from time to time impose additional new quotas, tariffs, duties or other restrictions on our merchandise or adversely change existing restrictions or interpretation regarding the application timing. Any such changes could adversely affect our ability to import, and/or the cost of our products and the results of operations of our business or interpretations of these items. Manufacturers in China are our major suppliers. During 2008, China was a direct source of approximately 94% of our merchandise based on cost. In addition to the products we import directly, a significant amount of the products we purchase 14 Table of Contents from other suppliers has been imported from China. Any deterioration in the trade relationship between the United States and China or any other disruption in our ability to import footwear, accessories, or other products from China or any other country where we have stores could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition to the risks of foreign sourcing stemming from international trade laws, there are also operational risks of relying on such imported merchandise. Our ability to successfully import merchandise derived from foreign sources into the United States is dependent on stable labor conditions in the major ports of the United States. Any instability or deterioration of the domestic labor environment in these ports, such as the work stoppage at West Coast ports in 2002, could result in increased costs, delays or disruption in product deliveries that could cause loss of revenue, damage to customer relationships or materially affect our business. If we are unable to maintain our current Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (“C-TPAT”) status, it would increase the time it takes to get products into our stores. Such delays could materially impact our ability to move the current product in our stores to meet customer demand. Our International Operations are Subject to Political and Economic Risks In 2008, approximately 17% of our sales were generated outside the United States and almost all of our merchandise was manufactured outside the United States. We are accordingly subject to a number of risks relating to doing business internationally, any of which could significantly harm our business, including: • political and economic instability; • inflation; • exchange controls and currency exchange rates; • foreign tax treaties and policies; • restrictions on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries; • ability to import product; and • increase in duty rates Certain countries have increased or are considering increases to duty rates. If the Company is unable to mitigate the impact of these increased duty rates or any other costs, it may adversely impact the profitability of our foreign operations which would adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Our financial performance on a U.S. dollar denominated basis is also subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. These fluctuations could cause our results of operations to vary materially. From time to time, we may enter into agreements seeking to reduce the effects of our exposure to currency fluctuations, but these agreements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to currency fluctuations or may not be available at a cost effective price. We are not currently entered into any of these agreements. We May be Unable to Effectively Protect Our Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property Rights We believe that our trademarks and other intellectual property are important to our business and are generally sufficient to permit us to carry on our business as presently conducted. We cannot, however, know whether we will be able to secure patents or trademark protection for our intellectual property in the future or whether that protection will be adequate for future products. Further, we face the risk of ineffective protection of intellectual property rights in the countries where we source and distribute our products. If we are compelled to prosecute infringing parties or defend our intellectual property, we will incur additional costs. Adverse Changes in Our Results of Operations and Financial Position Could Impact Our Ability to Meet Our Debt Covenants We are subject to financial covenants under our Term Loan Facility, Revolving Credit Facility and our Senior Subordinated Notes (collectively, the “Credit Facilities”). These financial covenants are based largely on our results of operations and financial position. In the event of adverse changes in our results of operations or financial position, we may be unable to comply with the financial covenants contained in our Credit Facilities in which case we would be in default. To avoid a default, we may seek an amendment that would likely involve significant up front costs, increased interest rate margins and additional covenants. If we were unable to negotiate an amendment of our Credit Facilities and defaulted on them we could be required to make immediate repayment. A default could also trigger increases in interest rates and difficulty obtaining other sources of financing. Such an event would adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents We May be Subject to Liability if We Infringe the Trademarks or Other Intellectual Property Rights of Third Parties We may be subject to liability if we infringe the trademarks or other intellectual property rights of third parties. If we were to be found liable for any such infringement, we could be required to pay substantial damages and could be subject to injunctions preventing further infringement. Such payments and injunctions could adversely affect our financial results. See also “Legal Proceedings,” included in this Form 10-K. We Rely on Brands We Do Not Own We are increasing our reliance on brands, some of which we do not own. Currently, we have agreements in place regarding the following brands, among others: Champion®, which expires on June 30, 2015; Dexter® which expires on December 31, 2014; American Ballet Theatre ™, which expires on January 31, 2010; Tommy Hilfiger Kids, which expires on December 31, 2009; and various Disney properties and characters, which expire on December 31, 2010. As discussed in Item 1 of this form 10-K under the caption “Intellectual Property”, we also license other trademarks whose agreements expire in 2009 and 2010. We, through our agents, also utilize various character marks from time-to-time. If we are unable to renew or replace any brand or character that accounts for a significant portion of its revenue, our results could be adversely affected. Adverse Occurrences at Our Distribution Centers Could Negatively Impact Our Business We currently use eight distribution centers, which serve as the source of replenishment of inventory for our stores and serve our wholesale operations. If complications arise with any of our operating distribution centers or our distribution centers are severely damaged or destroyed, our other distribution centers may not be able to support the resulting additional distribution demands and we may be unable to locate alternative persons or entities capable of doing so. This may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory on a timely basis, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Integration Risks of New Distribution Facilities Could Negatively Impact Our Business If we are unable to smoothly transition product flow within our new distribution infrastructure, there could be delays in shipping products to stores. If product arrives late in the selling cycle, we could be forced to mark down or use other promotions to liquidate such inventory which could adversely affect our results of operations. We May Be Unable to Attract and Retain Talented Personnel Our success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified and talented individuals. If we are unable to attract or retain key executives, including senior management, marketing and merchandising personnel, it could impede the further development of our business strategy, reduce our revenue and decrease our operational effectiveness. Prolonged Work Stoppages Could Adversely Affect our Results of Operations At the end of 2008, approximately 350 of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. We cannot assure you that these agreements will be renewed on similar terms or renegotiated on acceptable terms. Any prolonged work stoppages in one or more of our facilities could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Although there have been no work stoppages or disruptions since the inception of these collective bargaining agreements, we cannot assure you that there will be no disruptions in the future. If more of our employees unionize, it could result in demands that may increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our profitability. If any group of our employees were to unionize and we were unable to reach agreement on the terms of their collective bargaining agreement or we were to experience widespread employee dissatisfaction, we could be subject to work slowdowns or stoppages. In addition, we may be subject to disruptions by organized labor groups protesting the non-union status of the majority of our employees. Any of these events would be disruptive to our operations and could harm our business. 16 Table of Contents Unstable Credit Markets Could Affect Our Ability to Obtain Financing In the event we need additional financing, there can be no assurances that these funds will be available on a timely basis or on reasonable terms. Failure to obtain such financing could constrain our ability to operate or grow the business. In addition, any ratings downgrade of our securities, or any negative impacts on the credit market, generally, could negatively impact the cost or availability of capital. There are Risks Associated with Our Acquisitions Any acquisitions or mergers by us will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of companies. These risks include, among other things, higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses, the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the companies and the loss of key employees and customers as a result of changes in management. In addition, geographic distances may make integration of acquired businesses more difficult. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions. Our acquisitions may cause large one-time expenses or create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant asset impairment charges in the future. We also make certain estimates and assumptions in order to determine purchase price allocation and estimate the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities. If our estimates or assumptions used to value acquired assets and liabilities are not accurate, we may be exposed to gains or losses that may be material. Our Exposure to Legal Claims Has Increased Substantially as a Result of the $304.6 Million Jury Verdict and Subsequent Judgment of $65.3 Million in our Litigation with adidas. That Jury Verdict and Subsequent Judgment has Negatively Impacted our Business and we Expect those Negative Impacts to Continue. On May 5, 2008, a jury returned a verdict against us in the aggregate amount of $304.6 million in connection with our litigation with adidas. On September 12, 2008 the Court reduced the monetary award to $65.3 million and on March 18, 2009, the court entered a supplemental judgment of approximately $1.0 million that increases the total monetary award to approximately $66.3 million. As described under “Legal Proceedings” herein, although we are taking steps to protect our legal rights, there can be no assurances that our efforts will be successful. The jury verdict and subsequent judgment in our litigation with adidas has negatively impacted our business and is expected to continue to negatively impact our business until the matter is finally resolved, which could be several years from now as we appeal the jury verdict to the United States Court of Appeals. We also are subject to an injunction preventing us from selling certain two and four striped shoes which could adversely affect our financial results if we are not able to find suitable replacements to sell in our stores. In addition, bonding and, if necessary, eventually paying a judgment has negatively impacted our liquidity and capital resources. Also, adidas may request enhanced actual damages and/or attorneys’ fees. Our litigation with adidas has occupied a significant amount of management time and resources. Since the entry of the jury verdict, management’s time commitment and the related expenses, including expenses associated with outside advisors, have increased and are expected to continue until the litigation is finally resolved. During the first quarter of 2008, we recorded a $30.0 million pre-tax loss in connection with the adidas litigation. Although the likelihood of further losses and the ultimate amount of any such losses are not reasonably determinable at this time, the actual resolution of our litigation may result in further losses, which could be significant and could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. For example, we might be required to record a further loss, including a loss up to the amount of the judgment not previously recorded and in connection with a claim by adidas for additional compensation based upon our sales in Canada. As described above, any further loss that we would record could be significant and could materially adversely affect our results of operations in the period in which those losses are recorded, as well as affecting our ability to operate our businesses in the manner in which we have planned. Adverse Changes in our Market Capitalization or Anticipated Future Operating Performance May be an Indication of Goodwill or Other Intangible Asset Impairment, Which Could Have a Material Impact on our Financial Position and Results of Operations. We assess goodwill, which is not subject to amortization, for impairment on an annual basis or at any other interim reporting date when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the book value of these assets may exceed their fair value. We develop an estimate of the fair value of each reporting unit using both a market approach and an income approach. A 17 Table of Contents significant adverse change in our market capitalization or anticipated future operating performance could result in the book value of a reporting unit exceeding its fair value, resulting in a goodwill impairment charge. We recorded $42.0 million of goodwill impairment charges in 2008. If the Company’s market value continues to decline we may have a resulting impairment charge which, if significant, would adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. We also assess certain finite and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis or at any other interim reporting date when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the book value of these assets may exceed their fair value. Any significant changes in our anticipated future operating performance may be an indication of impairment to our tradenames or any other intangible asset. We recorded $88.2 million of impairment charges related to our indefinite-lived tradenames in 2008. Any additional impairment charges, if significant, would adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. An Outbreak of Asian Flu or Other Similar Infectious Diseases May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Ability to Purchase Merchandise from Manufacturers and Our Operations Generally An outbreak and spread of infectious diseases such as Asian flu in Southern China and other countries in which our manufacturers are located could impact the availability or timely delivery of merchandise. Although our ability to purchase and import our merchandise has not been negatively impacted to date, an outbreak of infectious diseases could prevent the manufacturers we use from manufacturing our merchandise or hinder our ability to import those goods to the countries in which our stores are located, either of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 