Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future results and the market price for our stock are subject to numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. The following discussion, as well as other sections of this Report on Form 10-K including Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, describes certain risk factors related to our business. You should carefully consider the risk factors described below in conjunction of the other information is this document. We have sold our operating assets and are executing a redeployment strategy. There can be no assurance that the redeployment strategy will increase shareholder value, and we may decide to liquidate. We have incurred losses since inception and expect that net losses and negative cash flow will continue for the foreseeable future. In September 2004, we announced the termination of most of our employees to facilitate the strategic alternatives then in consideration and ceased all operations other than a customer service and support capability. In July 2005, we completed a comprehensive review of strategic alternatives and approved a plan to redeploy our existing resources to identify and acquire one or more new business operations, while continuing to support our existing customers and continuing to offer our intellectual property for license or sale. If we are not successful in executing this strategy we will continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flow and may at some point decide to liquidate and return the net proceeds to our stockholders. In the case of a liquidation or bankruptcy, we would need to hold back or distribute assets to cover liabilities before paying stockholders, which may therefore reduce or delay the proceeds that stockholders may receive for their ownership in us. However, we believe we have adequate cash resources to continue to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities as a company through 2006. 4 Failure to execute our redeployment strategy could cause our stock price to decline. Our stock price may decline due to any or all of the following potential occurrences: l We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates or may not be able to acquire suitable candidates with our limited financial resources; l We may not be able to utilize our existing NOLs to offset future earnings; l We may have difficulty retaining our key remaining employee; l We may have difficulty retaining our board of directors or attracting suitable qualified candidates should a director resign. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in connection with our redeployment strategy. We have incurred recurring operating losses, and operations have not generated positive cash flows since inception. If we are unable to acquire suitable acquisition candidate(s), we will continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flows and may decide to liquidate. In the case of a liquidation, we would need to hold back assets to cover liabilities, which may therefore reduce or delay the proceeds that stockholders may receive. We may elect to dissolve and distribute assets to stockholders if our board of directors determines that such action is in the best interest of the stockholders. If our redeployment strategy is deemed unsuccessful, our board of directors may deem it advisable to dissolve the company and distribute assets to stockholders. Liquidation and dissolution may not create value to our stockholders or result in any remaining capital for distribution to our stockholders. The precise nature, amount and timing of any distribution to our stockholders would depend on and could be delayed by, among other things, sales of our non-cash assets and claim settlements with creditors. We will incur significant costs in connection with our evaluation of suitable acquisition candidates. As part of our plan to redeploy our assets, our management is seeking, analyzing and evaluating potential acquisition and merger candidates. We will incur significant costs, such as due diligence and legal and other professional fees and expenses, as part of these redeployment efforts. Notwithstanding these efforts and expenditures, we cannot give any assurance that we will identify an appropriate acquisition opportunity in the near term, or at all. We will likely have no operating history in our new line of business, which is yet to be determined, and therefore we will be subject to the risks inherent in establishing a new business. We have not identified what our new line of business will be and, therefore, we cannot fully describe the specific risks presented by such business. It is likely that we will have had no operating history in the new line of business and it is possible that the target company may have a limited operating history in its business. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our future operations will generate operating or net income, and as such our success will be subject to the risks, expenses, problems and delays inherent in establishing a new line of business for us. The ultimate success of such new business cannot be assured. We may be unable to realize the benefits of our net operating loss carry-forwards ("NOLs"). NOLs may be carried forward to offset federal and state taxable income in future years and eliminate income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income, subject to certain adjustments. Based on current federal corporate income tax rates, our NOLs and other carry-forwards could provide a benefit to us, if fully utilized, of significant future tax savings. However, our ability to use these tax benefits in future years will depend upon the amount of our otherwise taxable income. If we do not have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the tax benefits before they expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOLs permanently. Consequently, our ability to use the tax benefits associated with our substantial NOLs will depend significantly on our success in identifying suitable acquisition candidates, and once identified, successfully consummate an acquisition of these candidates. 5 Additionally, if we underwent an ownership change, the NOLs would be subject an annual limit on the amount of the taxable income that may be offset by our NOLs generated prior to the ownership change. If an ownership change were to occur, we may be unable to use a significant portion of our NOLs to offset taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs when, as of any testing date, the aggregate of the increase in percentage points is more than 50 percentage points of the total amount of a corporation's stock owned by "5-percent stockholders," within the meaning of the NOLs limitations, whose percentage ownership of the stock has increased as of such date over the lowest percentage of the stock owned by each such "5-percent stockholder" at any time during the three-year period preceding such date. In general, persons who own 5% or more of a corporation's stock are "5-percent stockholders," and all other persons who own less than 5% of a corporation's stock are treated, together, as a single, public group "5-percent stockholder," regardless of whether they own an aggregate of 5% of a corporation's stock. The amount of NOLs that we have claimed has not been audited or otherwise validated by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). The IRS could challenge our calculation of the amount of our NOLs or our determinations as to when a prior change in ownership occurred and other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, may limit our ability to carry forward our NOLs to offset taxable income in future years. If the IRS was successful with respect to any such challenge, the potential tax benefit of the NOLs to us could be substantially reduced. Certain transfer restrictions implemented by us to preserve our NOLs may not be effective or may have some unintended negative effects. On November 15, 2005, at our 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, our stockholders approved an amendment to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to restrict certain acquisitions of our securities in order to help assure the preservation of our NOLs. The amendment generally restricts direct and indirect acquisitions of our equity securities if such acquisition will affect the percentage of our capital stock that is treated as owned by a "5-percent stockholder." Although the transfer restrictions imposed on our capital stock is intended to reduce the likelihood of an impermissible ownership change, there is no guarantee that such restrictions would prevent all transfers that would result in an impermissible ownership change. The transfer restrictions also will require any person attempting to acquire a significant interest in us to seek the approval of our board of directors. This may have an "anti-takeover" effect because our board of directors may be able to prevent any future takeover. Similarly, any limits on the amount of capital stock that a stockholder may own could have the effect of making it more difficult for stockholders to replace current management. Additionally, because the transfer restrictions will have the effect of restricting a stockholder's ability to dispose of or acquire our common stock, the liquidity and market value of our common stock might suffer. We could be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could significantly limit our ability to operate and acquire an established business. The Investment Company Act of 1940 (the "Investment Company Act") requires registration, as an investment company, for companies that are engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading securities. We have sought to qualify for an exclusion from registration including the exclusion available to a company that does not own "investment securities" with a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets on an unconsolidated basis, excluding government securities and cash items. This exclusion, however, could be disadvantageous to us and/or our stockholders. If we were unable to rely on an exclusion under the Investment Company Act and were deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would be forced to comply with substantive requirements of Investment Company Act, including: (i) limitations on our ability to borrow; (ii) limitations on our capital structure; (iii) restrictions on acquisitions of interests in associated companies; (iv) prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; (v) restrictions on specific investments; (vi) limitations on our ability to issue stock options; and (vii) compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations. Registration as an investment company would subject us to restrictions that would significantly impair our ability to pursue our fundamental business strategy of acquiring and operating an established business. In the event the SEC or a court took the position that we were an investment company, our failure to register as an investment company would not only raise the possibility of an enforcement action by the SEC or an adverse judgment by a court, but also could threaten the validity of corporate actions and contracts entered into by us during the period we were deemed to be an unregistered investment company. Moreover, the SEC could seek an enforcement action against us to the extent we were not in compliance with the Investment Company Act during any point in time. 6 We may issue a substantial amount of our common stock in the future which could cause dilution to new investors and otherwise adversely affect our stock price. A key element of our growth strategy is to make acquisitions. As part of our acquisition strategy, we may issue additional shares of common stock as consideration for such acquisitions. These issuances could be significant. To the extent that we make acquisitions and issue our shares of common stock as consideration, your equity interest in us will be diluted. Any such issuance will also increase the number of outstanding shares of common stock that will be eligible for sale in the future. Persons receiving shares of our common stock in connection with these acquisitions may be more likely to sell off their common stock, which may influence the price of our common stock. In addition, the potential issuance of additional shares in connection with anticipated acquisitions could lessen demand for our common stock and result in a lower price than might otherwise be obtained. We may issue common stock in the future for other purposes as well, including in connection with financings, for compensation purposes, in connection with strategic transactions or for other purposes. Our customers may sue us because we have announced the discontinuance of our products and may not meet all our contractual commitments. Certain of our customer contracts contained provisions relating to the availability of products, spare parts and services for periods up to ten years. We have worked with our customers to aid in a smooth transition, but our customers may choose to sue us for breach of contract. If our products contain defects, we may be subject to significant liability claims from customers, distribution partners and the end-users of our products and incur significant unexpected expenses and lost sales. Our products are technically complex and can be adequately tested only when put to full use in large and diverse networks with high amounts of traffic. They have in the past contained, and may in the future contain, undetected or unresolved errors or defects. Despite extensive testing, errors, defects or failures may be found in our products. If this happens, we may experience product returns, increased service and warranty costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, because our products are designed to provide critical communications services, we may receive significant liability claims. We attempted to include in our agreements with customers and distribution partners provisions intended to limit our exposure to liability claims. However, our customers and distribution partners may not be willing to agree to such provisions, and in any event such provisions may not be effective in any or all cases or under any or all scenarios, and they may not preclude all potential claims resulting from a defect in one of our products or from a defect related to the installation or operation of one of its products. Although we maintains product liability and errors and omissions insurance covering certain damages arising from implementation and use of their products, our insurance may not cover all claims sought against it. Liability claims could require it to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. As a result, any such claims, whether or not successful, could seriously damage our reputation and our business. If we became involved in an intellectual property dispute, we could be subject to significant liability, the time and attention of our management could be diverted from pursuing strategic alternatives. We may become a party to litigation in the future to protect its intellectual property or because others may allege infringement of their intellectual property. These claims and any resulting lawsuits could subject it to significant liability for damages or invalidate our proprietary rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their merits, likely would be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation alleging our infringement of a third-party’s intellectual property also could force us to: · obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or · redesign those products or services that use the infringed technology. We have a history of losses that we expect will continue, and if we do not achieve profitability we may cease operations. At December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $517 million. We have incurred net losses since our incorporation. If we do not achieve profitability and are unable to obtain additional financing, we will run out of cash and cease operations. 7 If we cannot obtain director and officer liability insurance in acceptable amounts for acceptable rates, we may have difficulty recruiting and retaining qualified directors and officers. Like most other public companies, we carry insurance protecting our officer and directors against claims relating to the conduct of our business. This insurance covers, among other things, the costs incurred by companies and their management to defend against and resolve claims relating to management conduct and results of operations, such as securities class action claims. These claims typically are expensive to defend against and resolve. We pay significant premiums to acquire and maintain this insurance, which is provided by third-party insurers, and we agree to underwrite a portion of such exposures under the terms of the insurance coverage. One consequence of the current economic downturn and decline in stock prices has been a substantial increase in the number of securities class actions and similar claims brought against public corporations and their management, including the company and certain of its current and former officers and directors. Consequently, insurers providing director and officer liability insurance have in recent periods sharply increased the premiums they charge for this insurance, raised retentions (that is, the amount of liability that a company is required to pay to defend and resolve a claim before any applicable insurance is provided), and limited the amount of insurance they will provide. Moreover, insurers typically provide only one-year policies. The insurance policies that may cover any current securities claims against us have a $500,000 retention. As a result, the costs we incur in defending such claims will not be reimbursed until they exceed $500,000. The policies that would cover any future claims may not provide any coverage to us and may cover the directors and officers only in the event we are unwilling or unable to cover their costs in defending against and resolving any future claims. As a result, our costs in defending any future claims could increase significantly. Particularly in the current economic environment, we cannot assure you that in the future it will be able to obtain sufficient director and officer liability insurance coverage at acceptable rates and with acceptable deductibles and other limitations. Failure to obtain such insurance could materially harm our financial condition in the event that we are required to defend against and resolve any future or existing securities class actions or other claims made against us or our management arising from the conduct of our operations. Further, the inability to obtain such insurance in adequate amounts may impair our future ability to retain and recruit qualified officers and directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 