Item 1A. Risk Factors The value of an investment in our company will be subject to the significant risks inherent in our business. Investors should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below. This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements regarding our performance, strategy, plans, objectives, expectations, beliefs and intentions. The actual outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements could differ materially from our expectations. The following is a discussion of some of the factors and risks that could contribute to those differences. We face intense competition that could reduce our market share. We compete against a diverse group of retailers, including several national and regional large format merchandisers and superstores, such as Best Buy, Circuit City and Wal-Mart, which sell, among other products, audio and video consumer electronics products similar and often identical to those we sell. We also compete with many small, independent retailers that carry similar products and offer similar service levels. We also compete in particular markets with a substantial number of retailers that specialize in one or more types of consumer electronics products that we sell. Certain of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources than we have, 8 Table of Contents which may increase their ability to purchase inventory at lower costs or to initiate and sustain predatory price competition. In addition, the large format stores are continuing to expand their geographic markets, and this expansion may increase price competition within those markets. We have incurred losses from continuing operations for the last five years and those losses could continue in the future. We have experienced losses from continuing operations for the last five years. Our net loss in 2006 amounted to $16.5 million. Despite efforts to improve our operations, we could incur substantial losses in the future. In four of the last five years we have not provided sufficient cash from operating activities to fund our purchases of property and equipment. Our losses and the related use of cash over the last several years were funded, in part, by increased borrowings under our senior secured revolving credit facility and term loans. There can be no assurance that additional indebtedness will be available to us at all or on acceptable terms. We may need additional capital and we may not be able to obtain it on acceptable terms, if at all. Financing for the opening and acquisition of new stores, as well as for the improvement of existing stores, may be in the form of debt or equity or both and may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We estimate that the average cash investment for capital expenditures required to open a store is in the range of $0.8 million to $1.5 million, depending upon the level of construction required. The actual cost of opening a store may be significantly greater than such estimates, however, and we may need to seek additional debt and/or equity financing in order to fund our continued expansion through 2007 and beyond. In some cases, we lease stores in an existing building and incur costs for leasehold improvements to convert the space to our retail format. Additional factors vary depending on the region in which a new store is being opened, and can therefore cause a corresponding region-to-region variation in the cost of opening a new store, including the following: • Labor cost, regional cost of living, and the use of union or non-union labor; • Material cost (which can vary by state and region); and • General contractors’ fees and volume benefits (e.g., a contractor building more than one store). In addition, our ability to incur additional indebtedness or issue equity or debt securities could be limited by covenants in present and future loan agreements and debt instruments. Our success depends on our ability to increase sales in our existing stores. We may not be able to do so. Our continued growth depends on our ability to increase sales in our existing stores. Our ability to increase sales in existing stores may also be affected by our: • Success in attracting customers into our stores; • Ability to maintain fully staffed and trained employees; • Ability to keep stores stocked with the correct merchandise; and • Ability to choose the correct mix of products to sell. Our comparable sales results may fluctuate significantly, which could adversely affect our reportable revenue and profitability. “Comparable store sales” is a term we use to compare the year over year sales performance of our stores. A store is included in the comparable store sales base after it is in operation for 12 full months. An acquired store is included after 12 full months from the date of acquisition. In addition, comparable store sales include Internet-originated sales. Remodeled or relocated stores are excluded from the comparable store base until they have completed 12 full months of operation from the date the remodeling was completed or the store re-opened after relocation. In 2005 we initiated a store closing program. We removed those closing stores from the comparable store sales base in May 2005, after we determined that they would close. Stores that are part of discontinued operations are also excluded from the comparable store sales base. 9 Table of Contents A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable store sales results, including, among other factors: • Competition: well-established competitors with an abundance of resources may enter markets in which stores are located and provide products at lower prices. This competition may cause sales to decline from prior year sales; • General regional and national economic conditions: severe regional weather conditions such as floods, hurricanes or tornados, economic dislocations such as the recent sharp rise in gasoline and home-heating fuel prices, or regional business crises causing large layoffs or work stoppages may cause regional comparable store sales declines, while exceptional regional business success may cause comparable store sales increases. In addition, national economic conditions, such as a recession, may cause comparable store sales declines while favorable economic events, such as a stock market surge, may cause comparable store sales increases; • Consumer trends: if consumer trends shift to a new product technology, we will likely see an increase in comparable store sales; • Changes in our product mix: if we change our product mix to add products, eliminate products or change our emphasis on certain products, comparable store sales will be affected by such changes; • Timing of promotional events: if a promotional event held one year is not held the following year, then comparable store sales may be lower in the following year; and • New product introductions: new product introductions may increase comparable store sales by providing customers with an incentive to replace their existing systems. New product introductions may cause comparable store sales to decrease, however, if the product is a lower-priced item that replaces a higher priced product. Recent economic conditions make forecasting comparable store sales particularly difficult. Comparable store sales may decrease in the future. Changes in our comparable store sales results could cause the price of our common stock and profitability to fluctuate substantially. We may not be able to open new stores and, even if we do open new stores, we may not be able to operate those stores profitably. While the opening of new stores has slowed considerably, we expect to continue to open new stores from time to time. The opening of additional stores in new geographical markets could present competitive and merchandising challenges different from those we currently or previously faced within our existing geographic markets. In addition, we may incur higher costs related to advertising, administration and distribution as we enter new markets. There are a number of factors that could affect our ability to open or acquire new stores. These factors also affect the ability of any newly opened or acquired stores to achieve sales and profitability levels comparable with our existing stores, or to become profitable at all. These factors include: • The identification and acquisition of suitable sites and the negotiation of acceptable leases for such sites; • The obtaining of governmental and other third-party consents, permits and licenses needed to operate such additional sites; • The hiring, training and retention of skilled personnel; • The availability of adequate management and financial resources; • The adaptation of our distribution and other operational and management systems to an expanded network of stores; • The ability and willingness of suppliers to supply products on a timely basis at competitive prices; and • Continued consumer demand for our products at levels that can support acceptable profit margins. 10 Table of Contents We depend on key personnel and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives. The Company’s success and ability to properly manage its growth depends to a significant extent on both the performance of its current executive and senior management team and its ability to attract, hire, motivate, and retain additional qualified and talented management personnel in the future. The Company’s inability to recruit and retain such personnel, or the loss of services of any of its current key employees, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operations. Our business is subject to quarterly fluctuations and seasonality. Seasonal shopping patterns affect our business. The fourth calendar quarter, which is our first fiscal quarter and which includes the Christmas holiday shopping season, has historically contributed, and is expected to continue to contribute, a significant portion of our total revenue. As a result, any factors negatively affecting us during this time of year, including adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, would have a materially adverse impact on our revenue and profitability for the entire year. More generally, our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate based upon such factors as: • The amount of net sales contributed by our stores; • The mix of consumer electronics products sold in our stores; • Profitability of sales of particular products; • Changes in volume-rebates from manufacturers; • Local, regional, and national economic factors, such as the price of gasoline and the price of home-heating fuels; and • Local weather conditions, such as hurricanes and snow storms, which result in the closure of many stores on certain days. We may not be able to anticipate and respond to changes in consumer demand, preference and patterns. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to consumer demand and preferences regarding audio and video consumer electronics products and changes in consumer demand and preferences. Consumer spending patterns, particularly discretionary spending for products such as those we sell, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the periodic introduction and availability of new products and technologies at price levels that generate wide consumer interest stimulate the demand for audio and video consumer electronics products. Also, many products that incorporate the newest technologies are subject to significant technological and pricing limitations and to the actions and cooperation of third parties such as television broadcasters. It is possible that these products or other new products will never achieve widespread consumer acceptance. Furthermore, the introduction or expected introduction of new products or technologies may depress sales of existing products and technologies. Significant deviations from the projected demand for products we sell would result in lost sales or lower margins due to the need to mark down excess inventory. If any of our relationships with our key suppliers are terminated, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. The success of our business and growth strategy depends to a significant degree upon our suppliers, particularly our brand-name suppliers of audio and video equipment. We do not have any supply agreements or exclusive arrangements with any suppliers. We typically order our inventory through the issuance of individual purchase orders to suppliers. In addition, we rely heavily on a relatively small number of suppliers. Our largest supplier and our ten largest suppliers, ranked by purchasing volume, represented 22% and 77%, respectively, of our total purchases in fiscal 2006. The loss of any of these key suppliers could affect our business, as we may not be able to find suitable replacements. 11 Table of Contents Suppliers may not be willing to supply products at acceptable prices. It is possible that we will be unable to acquire sufficient quantities or an appropriate mix of products at acceptable prices. Specifically, our ability to establish additional stores in existing markets and to penetrate new markets depends, to a significant extent, on the willingness and ability of suppliers to supply inventory at acceptable prices, and suppliers may not be willing or able to do so. Our service marks and patents may not be effective to protect our intellectual property rights. Our “Tweeter,” “Tweeter etc.,” “AVi.d. Member,” “Slamfest,” “Wise Buys” and “Picture Perfect” service marks have been registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We have not registered “hifi buys,” “Sound Advice” and some of our other service marks. We are aware that other consumer electronics retailers use the name “hifi buys” and “Sound Advice.” We have submitted applications for registration of some of our other service marks, which applications are currently pending. We may be unable to successfully register such service marks. In addition our service marks, whether registered or unregistered, and our patents may not be effective to protect our intellectual property rights, and infringement or invalidity claims may be asserted by third parties in the future. Anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation and our shareholders’ rights plan could delay or deter a change in control. Our corporate charter and by-laws, as well as certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, contain provisions that may deter, discourage or make more difficult a change in control of the Company, even if such a change in control would be in the interest of a significant number of our stockholders or if a change in control would provide stockholders with a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. For example, our charter authorizes our Board of Directors to issue one or more classes of preferred stock, having such designations, rights and preferences as they determine. Our stockholders have no right to take action by written consent and may not call special meetings of stockholders. Any amendment of the by-laws by the stockholders or certain provisions of the charter requires the affirmative vote of at least 75% of the shares of voting stock then outstanding. Our charter also provides for the staggered election of directors to serve for one, two and three-year terms, and for successive three-year terms thereafter, subject to removal only for cause upon the vote of not less than 75% of the shares of common stock represented at a stockholders’ meeting. In addition, under the terms of our shareholders’ rights plan, in general, if a person or group acquires more than 20% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, all other stockholders of the Company would have the right to purchase securities from us at a discount to such securities’ fair market value, thus causing substantial dilution to the holdings of the acquiring person or group. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 12 Table of Contents 