Risk Factors Certain statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents we incorporate by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. All statements regarding our expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, capital expenditures, competitive positions, growth opportunities, plans and objectives of management and statements containing the words such as “anticipate,” “approximate,” “believe,” “plan,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “could,” “should,” “will,” “intend,” “may” and other similar expressions, are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and you must recognize that actual results may differ materially from our expectations as a result of a variety of factors, including, without limitation, those discussed below. Such forward-looking statements are based upon management’s current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results or performance to differ materially from any future results or performance expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed below and detailed from time to time in our filings with the SEC. Factors that may affect our plans or results include, without limitation: • our ability to operate pursuant to the terms of our debt obligations and the Master Lease Agreements, • our ability to meet our rental and debt service obligations, • adverse developments with respect to our results of operations or liquidity, • our ability to attract and retain key executives and other healthcare personnel, • increased operating costs due to shortages in qualified nurses and other healthcare personnel, 47 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • the effects of healthcare reform and government regulations, interpretation of regulations and changes in the nature and enforcement of regulations governing the healthcare industry, • changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and changes arising from LTAC PPS, including the Proposed Medicare Payment Rule, Medicare Part D and changes in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements for our nursing centers, • national and regional economic conditions, particularly their effect on the availability and cost of labor, materials and other services, • our ability to control costs, particularly labor and employee benefit costs, • our ability to comply with the terms of our Corporate Integrity Agreement, • our ability to successfully pursue our development activities and successfully integrate new operations, including the realization of anticipated revenues, economies of scale, cost savings and productivity gains associated with such operations, • the increase in the costs of defending and insuring against alleged professional liability claims and our ability to predict the estimated costs related to such claims, • our ability to successfully reduce (by divestiture of operations or otherwise) our exposure to professional liability claims, • our ability to successfully dispose of unprofitable facilities, and • our ability to ensure and maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We caution you that any forward-looking statements made by us are not guarantees of future performance. We disclaim any obligation to update any such factors or to announce publicly the results of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments. Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, or the implementation of other measures to reduce reimbursement for our services and products could result in a substantial reduction in our revenues and operating margins. We depend on reimbursement from third party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, for substantially all of our revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we derived approximately 69% of our total revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and approximately 31% from private third party payors, such as commercial insurance companies, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations and contracted providers. The Medicare and Medicaid programs are highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. See “Item 1 – Business – Governmental Regulation.” On January 19, 2006, CMS issued the Proposed Medicare Payment Rule for LTAC hospitals. Based upon our historical Medicare patient volumes, we expect that the Proposed Medicare Payment Rule would reduce Medicare revenues to our hospitals associated with short stay outliers and high cost outliers between $115 million and $120 million on an annual basis. This estimate does not include the negative impact resulting from the elimination of the annual market basket adjustment to the Medicare payment rates that also is contained in the Proposed Medicare Payment Rule. The annual market basket adjustment has typically ranged between 3% and 4%, or approximately $25 million to $30 million in annual revenues. The Proposed Medicare Payment Rule would be effective for discharges occurring on or after July 1, 2006 through June 30, 2007. The Proposed Medicare Payment Rule is subject to a 60-day public comment period, and as such, is subject to change. We are continuing to evaluate the impact that the Proposed Medicare Payment Rule could have on our hospital operations and our hospital development activities. Depending on the final rule from CMS, we will 48 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements evaluate our operational alternatives to mitigate the potential impact of these reimbursement reductions. If the Proposed Medicare Payment Rule becomes effective in its proposed form, it will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. On August 1, 2005, CMS published the final rules related to the DRG weights and the geometric length-of-stay thresholds that take effect for hospital Medicare discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2005. In connection with the final rules, CMS estimated that these changes could result in an aggregate reduction in payments to LTAC hospitals of approximately 4.2%. These changes reduced our hospital Medicare revenues by approximately $9 million in the fourth quarter of 2005. We expect these changes to reduce Medicare revenues to our hospitals between $35 million to $40 million on an annual basis based upon our historical Medicare patient volumes. See “Item 1 – Business – Governmental Regulation – Hospital Division.” We have had only limited experience operating under LTAC PPS. Operating results under LTAC PPS are subject to changes in patient acuity and expense levels in our hospitals. These factors, among others, are subject to significant change. Slight variations in patient acuity could significantly change Medicare revenues generated under LTAC PPS. In addition, our hospitals may not be able to appropriately adjust their operating costs as patient acuity levels change or to changes in reimbursement rates. Under LTAC PPS, Medicare reimbursement to our hospitals will be based upon a fixed payment system. Operating margins in the hospital division could be negatively impacted if we are unable to control our operating costs. As a result of these uncertainties, we cannot predict the ultimate long-term impact of LTAC PPS on our hospital operating results and we cannot assure you that such regulations or operational changes resulting from these regulations will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, we cannot assure you that LTAC PPS will not have a material adverse effect on revenues from non-government third party payors. Various factors, including a reduction in average length of stay, have negatively impacted revenues from non-government third party payors. In addition, CMS is currently evaluating various certification criteria for designating a hospital as a LTAC hospital. If such certification criteria were developed and enacted into legislation, our hospitals may not be able to maintain their status as LTAC hospitals or may need to adjust their operations. In August 2004, CMS announced regulatory changes applicable to LTAC hospitals that are operated as an HIH. Once fully phased in, the new rules generally limit Medicare payments to the HIH if the Medicare admissions to the HIH from the host hospital exceed 25% of the total Medicare discharges for the HIH’s cost reporting period. We currently operate 16 HIHs. We continue to evaluate the impact of the final regulations on our ongoing operations and patient referral patterns. We also consider the impact of these regulations as we pursue HIH development activities. At this time, we expect that these new rules will slow the development of HIHs. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the limitations on payments to HIHs will not be applied, in some form, to freestanding LTAC hospitals in the future. See “Item 1 – Business – Governmental Regulation – Hospital Division.” Medicare Part D is likely to have a significant impact on our institutional pharmacy business. We provide services to patients and residents and are reimbursed by private pay, Medicare and Medicaid. Under Medicare Part D, effective January 1, 2006, prescription drug coverage for certain Medicare beneficiaries known as dual eligibles (Medicare beneficiaries who are also eligible for Medicaid) will be shifted from Medicaid to Medicare. Under Medicare Part D, we will obtain reimbursement for drugs we provide to enrollees of a given Part D Plan in accordance with the terms of agreements negotiated between us and the Part D Plan. Accordingly, the implementation of Medicare Part D could negatively impact the pricing and payment for our services. The transition to Medicare Part D also will result in a generally slower payment cycle as we attempt to properly bill and collect payments from various Part D Plans. There continue to be legislative and regulatory proposals that would impose further limitations on government and private payments to providers of healthcare services. By repealing the federal payment standard for Medicaid reimbursement levels, often referred to as the “Boren Amendment,” the Balanced Budget Act eased 49 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements existing impediments on the ability of states to reduce their Medicaid reimbursement levels. Many states are considering or have enacted measures that are designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures and to make certain changes to private healthcare insurance. As several states face budgetary issues, we anticipate further pressure on Medicaid rates that could negatively impact payments to our nursing center operations. The 20% upward adjustment in the payment rates for the care of higher acuity patients under the BBRA remained in effect until a revised RUGs payment system was established by CMS. Nursing center revenues associated with the 20% upward adjustment approximated $39 million, $38 million and $35 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. On July 28, 2005, CMS published the final rules related to the revised RUGs payment system for nursing centers. Among other things, the final rules provide for a 3.1% inflation update to all RUGs categories effective October 1, 2005. In addition, the final rules increase the indexing of RUG categories, expand the total RUG categories from 44 to 53 and eliminate the 20% payment add-on for the care of higher acuity patients that had been in effect since 2000 under the BBRA. On February 1, 2006, Congress passed the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005. This legislation allows, among other things, an annual $1,740 Medicare Part B outpatient therapy cap to go into effect on January 1, 2006. The legislation also requires CMS to implement a broad process for reviewing medically necessary therapy claims, creating an exception to the cap. In addition, private third party payors are continuing their efforts to control healthcare costs through direct contracts with healthcare providers, increased utilization review and greater enrollment in managed care programs and preferred provider organizations. These private payors increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures and the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk. We could be affected adversely by the continuing efforts of governmental and private third party payors to contain healthcare costs. We cannot assure you that reimbursement payments under governmental and private third party payor programs, including Medicare supplemental insurance policies, will remain at levels comparable to present levels or will be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients eligible for reimbursement pursuant to these programs. Future changes in third party payor reimbursement rates or methods, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, or the implementation of other measures to reduce reimbursement for our services and products could result in a substantial reduction in our net operating revenues. Our operating margins may continue to be under pressure because of deterioration in pricing flexibility, changes in payor mix and growth in operating expenses in excess of increases in payments by third party payors. In addition, as a result of competitive pressures, our ability to maintain operating margins through price increases to private patients is limited. Our failure to pay rent, or Ventas’s exercise of its right to reset the annual aggregate rent, under the Master Lease Agreements could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We currently lease 39 of our hospitals and 186 of our nursing centers from Ventas under our Master Lease Agreements. Our failure to pay the rent or otherwise comply with a material provision of any of our Master Lease Agreements with Ventas would result in an “Event of Default” under such Master Lease Agreement. Upon an Event of Default, remedies available to Ventas include, without limitation, terminating such Master Lease Agreement, repossessing and reletting the leased properties and requiring us to remain liable for all obligations under such Master Lease Agreement, including the difference between the rent under such Master Lease Agreement and the rent payable as a result of reletting the leased properties, or requiring us to pay the net present value of the rent due for the balance of the term of such Master Lease Agreement. The exercise of such remedies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our businesses. 50 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, Ventas has a one-time option to reset the rent and the related rent escalators under each of the Master Lease Agreements to the “Fair Market Rental” of the leased properties. Fair Market Rental is determined through an appraisal procedure set forth in the Master Lease Agreements. Generally, the Master Lease Agreements provide that Ventas can initiate the rent reset procedure under each Master Lease Agreement at any time between January 20, 2006 and July 19, 2007 by delivering a Reset Proposal Notice to us proposing the Fair Market Rental for the balance of the lease term. If we and Ventas are unable to reach an agreement on the Fair Market Rental within 30 days following delivery of the Reset Proposal Notice, we and Ventas each must select an appraiser. Under the terms of the Master Lease Agreements, these two appraisers then will have ten days to select a third Independent Appraiser. The Independent Appraiser will have 60 days to complete its determination of Fair Market Rental and the annual rent escalator, which determination will be final and binding on the parties. Within 30 days following the Independent Appraiser’s determination, Ventas may elect to exercise its right to reset Fair Market Rental by sending us the Final Exercise Notice. Alternatively, Ventas may decide not to exercise its rent reset option, in which event the rent and existing 3 1/2% contingent annual escalator would remain at their then current levels under the Master Lease Agreements. Provided that Ventas exercises its rent reset right in accordance with the Master Lease Agreements, the rent reset will become effective on the later of July 19, 2006 or the date of delivery of the Reset Proposal Notice, which can be no later than July 19, 2007. For additional information on the rent reset right, see “Item 1 – Business – Master Lease Agreements.” We have limited operational and strategic flexibility since we lease a substantial number of our facilities. We lease a substantial number of our facilities from Ventas and other third parties. Under our leases, we generally are required to operate continuously our leased properties as a provider of healthcare services. In addition, these leases generally limit or restrict our ability to assign the lease to another party. Our failure to comply with these lease provisions would result in an event of default under the leases and subject us to material damages, including potential defaults under our revolving credit facility. Given these restrictions, we may be forced to continue operating unprofitable facilities to avoid defaults under our leases. See “Item 1 – Business – Master Lease Agreements.” Significant legal actions could subject us to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Over the last few years, we have recorded significant costs for professional liability claims, particularly in our nursing center and hospital operations. We have experienced increases in both the number and size of professional liability claims in recent years. In addition to large compensatory claims, plaintiffs’ attorneys increasingly are seeking significant punitive damages and attorney’s fees. As a result, our professional liability costs have become expensive and can be unpredictable. We insure a substantial portion of our professional liability risks primarily through a wholly owned limited purpose insurance subsidiary. The limited purpose insurance subsidiary insures initial losses up to specified coverage levels per occurrence and in the aggregate. On a per claim basis, coverages for losses in excess of those insured by the limited purpose insurance subsidiary are maintained through unaffiliated commercial insurance carriers. Effective January 1, 2003, the limited purpose insurance subsidiary insures all claims in all states up to a per occurrence limit without the benefit of any aggregate coverage limit through unaffiliated commercial insurance carriers, thereby increasing our financial risk. We maintain professional and general liability insurance in amounts and coverage that management believes are sufficient for our operations. However, our insurance might not cover all claims against us or the full extent of our liability nor continue to be available at a reasonable cost. Moreover, the cost of insurance coverage maintained with unaffiliated commercial insurance carriers has increased significantly and may continue to increase. If we are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage or are required to pay punitive damages which are uninsured, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities. 51 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We also are subject to lawsuits under the federal False Claims Act and comparable state laws for submitting fraudulent bills for services to the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These lawsuits, which may be initiated by whistleblowers, can involve significant monetary damages, fines, attorney fees and the award of bounties to private plaintiffs who successfully bring these suits, as well as to the government programs. We could experience significant increases to our operating costs due to shortages of qualified nurses and other healthcare professionals. The market for qualified nurses and other healthcare professionals is highly competitive. We, like other healthcare providers, have experienced difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel such as nurses, pharmacists, certified nurse’s assistants, nurse’s aides, therapists and other important providers of healthcare services. Our hospitals and nursing centers are particularly dependent on nurses for patient care. The difficulty we have experienced in hiring and retaining qualified personnel has increased our average wage rates and may force us to increase our use of contract personnel. We may continue to experience increases in our labor costs primarily due to higher wages and greater benefits required to attract and retain qualified healthcare personnel. Salaries, wages and benefits were approximately 54% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005. Our ability to control labor costs will significantly affect our future operating results. Various states in which we operate hospitals and nursing centers have established minimum staffing requirements or may establish minimum staffing requirements in the future. The implementation of these staffing requirements in some states is not contingent upon any additional appropriation of state funds in any budget act or other statute. Our ability to satisfy such staffing requirements will depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified healthcare professionals. Failure to comply with such minimum staffing requirements may result in the imposition of fines or other sanctions. If states do not appropriate sufficient additional funds (through Medicaid program appropriations or otherwise) to pay for any additional operating costs resulting from such minimum staffing requirements, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to meet our substantial rent and debt service requirements. A substantial portion of our cash flows from operations is dedicated to the payment of rents related to our leased properties as well as principal and interest obligations on our outstanding indebtedness. Subject to certain restrictions, we also have the ability to incur substantial additional borrowings under our revolving credit facility. If we are unable to generate sufficient funds to meet our obligations, we may be required to refinance, restructure or otherwise amend some or all of such obligations, sell assets or raise additional cash through the sale of our equity. We cannot assure you that such restructuring activities, sales of assets or issuances of equity can be accomplished or, if accomplished, would raise sufficient funds to meet these obligations. In addition, our capital structure and our revolving credit facility: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our rent and interest obligations, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities, • require us to pledge as collateral substantially all of our assets, and • require us to maintain certain financial ratios at specified levels, thereby reducing our financial flexibility. These provisions: • could have a material adverse effect on our ability to withstand competitive pressures or adverse economic conditions (including adverse regulatory changes), • could affect adversely our ability to make material acquisitions, obtain future financing or take advantage of business opportunities that may arise, and 52 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business. We could have significant dilution from the exercise of our outstanding warrants Our Series A warrants and Series B warrants will expire on April 20, 2006. Each Series A warrant allows the holder to purchase two shares of our common stock at an aggregate price of $30.00, while each Series B warrant allows the holder to purchase two shares of our common stock at an aggregate price of $33.33. At December 31, 2005, there were outstanding 1,859,534 Series A warrants and 4,630,343 Series B warrants. Effective February 27, 2006, we amended the warrant agreement governing our Series A warrants and our Series B warrants. The amendment implements a cashless exercise procedure offering warrant holders the option to pay the exercise price for the warrants in the form of shares of our common stock acquired upon the exercise of such warrants. The cashless exercise procedure will be available to current and subsequent warrant holders beginning February 27, 2006. The warrant agreement did not previously provide for a cashless exercise procedure. To the extent warrant holders do not avail themselves of the cashless exercise procedure, we intend to repurchase shares of our common stock in the open market with the cash proceeds from the exercise of the warrants over time and subject to market conditions. Our diluted earnings per share is derived by using the treasury stock method of accounting, which assumes that warrants are converted and shares of common stock are repurchased simultaneously. Since the repurchase of our common stock in the open market is subject to certain daily trading volume limitations, the actual dilution resulting from the exercise of the warrants in 2006 may be higher than the levels reported in our historical financial statements. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that reduce our revenues and profitability. In the ordinary course of our business, we are subject regularly to inquiries, investigations and audits by federal and state agencies that oversee applicable healthcare program participation and payment regulations. The extensive federal, state and local regulations affecting the healthcare industry include, but are not limited to, regulations relating to licensure, conduct of operations, ownership of facilities, addition of facilities, allowable costs, services and prices for services, facility staffing requirements, and the confidentiality and security of health-related information. In particular, various laws including anti-kickback, anti-fraud and abuse amendments codified under the Social Security Act prohibit certain business practices and relationships that might affect the provision and cost of healthcare services reimbursable under Medicare and Medicaid, including the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients whose care will be paid by Medicare or other governmental programs. Sanctions for violating the anti-kickback, anti-fraud and abuse amendments under the Social Security Act include criminal penalties, civil sanctions, fines and possible exclusion from government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. See “Item 1 – Business – Governmental Regulation.” We believe that the regulatory environment surrounding most segments of the healthcare industry remains intense. Federal and state governments continue to impose intensive enforcement policies resulting in a significant number of inspections, citations of regulatory deficiencies and other regulatory sanctions including demands for refund of overpayments, terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, bans on Medicare and Medicaid payments for new admissions and civil monetary penalties. If we fail to comply with the extensive laws and regulations applicable to our businesses, we could become ineligible to receive government program reimbursement, suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to an investigation or other enforcement action under these laws or regulations. Furthermore, should we lose licenses for a number of our facilities as a result of regulatory action or otherwise, we could be in default under our Master Lease Agreements and our revolving credit facility. 53 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local regulation or legislation, including Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, or the intensity of federal and state enforcement actions. Changes in the regulatory framework and sanctions from various enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Acquisitions that we have made or may make in the future may use significant resources, may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. We intend to selectively pursue strategic acquisitions of LTAC hospitals, skilled nursing centers, pharmacies, rehabilitation operations and other related healthcare operations. Acquisitions may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, additional operating losses, amortization of certain intangible assets of acquired companies, dilutive issuances of equity securities and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties integrating acquired operations, personnel and information systems, or in realizing projected efficiencies and cost savings, • diversion of management’s time from existing operations, • potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired companies, and • inaccurate assessment of assets and liabilities and exposure to undisclosed or unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare regulations. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in obtaining financing for acquisitions at a reasonable cost, or that such financing will not contain restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility. We also may be unable to operate acquired facilities profitably or succeed in achieving improvements in their financial performance. We continue to seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities for each of our businesses which may impact our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We continue to seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities for each of our businesses. Accordingly, we are often engaged in evaluating potential transactions and other strategic alternatives. In addition, from time to time, we engage in preliminary discussions that may result in one or more transactions. Although there is uncertainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transactions, our short-term and long-term financial position, results of operations and liquidity may be impacted if we complete any such transactions. Moreover, although we would enter into transactions to enhance stockholder value, our ability to achieve this objective would be subject to integration risks, the ability to retain and attract key personnel, the ability to realize synergies and other risks. If we fail to attract patients and residents and compete effectively with other healthcare providers, our revenues and profitability may decline. The long-term healthcare services industry is highly competitive. Our hospitals face competition from general short-term acute care hospitals and LTAC hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. Many competing hospitals are larger and more established than our hospitals. We may experience increased competition from existing hospitals as well as hospitals converted, in whole or in part, to specialized care facilities. Our nursing centers compete on a local and regional basis with other nursing centers and other long-term healthcare providers. Some of our competitors operate newer facilities and may offer services not provided by us or are operated by entities having greater financial and other resources than us. Our rehabilitation division competes with national, regional and local rehabilitation service providers within our markets. Several of these competitors may have greater financial and other resources than us and may be more established in the 54 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements markets in which we compete. Our institutional pharmacies generally compete on price and quality of the services provided. Several of the competitors to our pharmacy operations are larger and more established service providers in the markets in which we compete. We cannot assure you that increased competition in the future will not adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. If we fail to comply with our Corporate Integrity Agreement, we could be subject to severe sanctions. We have entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to promote our compliance with the requirements of Medicare, Medicaid and all other federal healthcare programs. Under the Corporate Integrity Agreement, we have implemented a comprehensive internal quality improvement program and a system of internal financial controls in our hospitals, nursing centers, pharmacies, rehabilitation operations and regional and corporate offices. We also are subject to extensive reporting requirements under the Corporate Integrity Agreement. The Corporate Integrity Agreement is scheduled to expire in April 2006. A material breach of the Corporate Integrity Agreement could subject us to substantial monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Any such sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. See “Item 1 – Business – Corporate Integrity Agreement.” The inability or failure of management in the future to conclude that we maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, or the inability of our independent auditor to issue a report attesting to management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to report in our Annual Report on Form 10-K on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, and our independent auditor is required to attest to management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. Significant resources are required to establish that we are in full compliance with the newly adopted financial reporting controls and procedures. If we fail to have, or management or our independent auditor is unable to conclude that we maintain, effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting, we could be unable to provide timely and reliable financial information which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 