Item 1A. Risk Factors We face a number of risks that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us also may adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results in a material manner. In addition, we may also be affected by general risks not directly related to our business, including but not limited to, acts of war, terrorism and natural disasters. • Conditions in the financial services industry and the securities markets may adversely affect our trading volumes and market liquidity Our business is primarily transaction-based, and declines in trading volumes, volatility, prices, commission rates or market liquidity could adversely affect our business and profitability. Declines in the volume of equities, fixed income and other financial instruments transactions and in volatility and market liquidity generally result in lower revenues from our market making and transaction execution activities. Lower price levels of securities and other financial instruments and tightening spreads may also result in reduced revenue capture, and thereby reduced revenues from trade executions. Declines in market values of securities or other financial instruments can result in illiquid markets, losses on securities or other financial instruments held in inventory, the failure of buyers and sellers to fulfill their obligations and settle their trades, and increases in claims and litigation. Accordingly, reductions in trading volumes, volatility, prices, commission rates or market liquidity could materially affect our business and profitability. • The Company will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the Merger is pending Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on the Company. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key 15 Table of Contents personnel until the Merger is completed, and could cause customers and others that deal with the Company to seek to change existing business relationships, cease doing business with the Company or cause potential new customers to delay doing business with the Company until the Merger has been successfully completed. Retention of certain employees may be challenging during the pendency of the Merger, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles. If key employees depart the Company, the Company’s business could be negatively impacted. In addition, the Merger Agreement between the Company and GETCO restricts the Company from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the Merger is completed without the consent of GETCO. These restrictions may prevent the Company from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the Merger. • Termination of the Merger Agreement with GETCO could negatively impact the Company In the event the Merger Agreement between the Company and GETCO is terminated, the Company’s business may be adversely impacted by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management on the Merger, and the market price of the Company’s common stock might decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the Merger with GETCO will be completed. If the Merger Agreement is terminated and the Company’s board of directors seeks another merger or business combination, the Company’s stockholders cannot be certain that the Company will be able to find a party willing to offer equivalent or more attractive consideration than the merger consideration in the business combination with GETCO. Moreover, if the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, the terminating party may be required to pay a termination fee of $53.0 million or a portion thereof. • We will incur substantial transaction-related costs in connection with the Merger We expect to incur a number of non-recurring transaction-related costs associated with the Merger. These fees and costs will be substantial. Non-recurring transaction costs include, but are not limited to, fees paid to legal, financial and accounting advisors, severance and benefit costs, filing fees and printing costs. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. • We could experience additional losses and liabilities as a result of the technology issue that arose and impacted us on August 1, 2012, and the events of August 1, 2012 could cause customers and counterparties to lose confidence in our systems and adversely affect our reputation, results of operations and ability to attract and maintain our business, and may also result in lawsuits, regulatory investigations and other burdensome costs for the Company. We experienced a technology issue at the opening of trading at the NYSE on August 1, 2012. This issue was related to our installation of trading software and resulted in our broker dealer subsidiary, KCA, sending numerous erroneous orders in NYSE-listed and NYSE Arca securities into the market. Although this software was subsequently removed from our systems and the software issue was limited to the routing of certain NYSE-listed stocks, it resulted in the Company realizing a pre-tax loss of approximately $457.6 million. This severely impacted our capital base and business operations, and we experienced reduced order flow, liquidity pressures and harm to customer and counterparty confidence. We are currently subject to litigation by stockholders alleging that they have been damaged by this technology issue (as further described in Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” herein). In addition, we are subject to an investigation by the SEC relating to the technology issue, and other regulatory or governmental agencies may decide to conduct further investigations into the technology issue. While we are unable to predict the outcome of any existing or future litigation or regulatory or governmental investigation, an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or ongoing operations. In addition, we may incur significant expenses 16 Table of Contents in defending against the existing litigation, or any other future litigation or in connection with any regulatory or governmental investigations, and in implementing technical changes and remedial measures which may be necessary or advisable. We may also be required to take remedial steps that could be burdensome for our business operations. Any inability to demonstrate that we have fully resolved and remediated the technology issues stemming from the events of August 1, 2012 or concerns about future technology issues could cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to attract or maintain customers and counterparty relationships. Following the events of August 1, 2012, we took several remedial measures designed to strengthen and enhance our controls, and we will continue this endeavor. However, in the event that we are not able to restore the confidence of former customers or counterparties as a result of the events of August 1, 2012, we may experience reduced business activity in our trading, market making and other businesses, which could adversely impact the results of our operations. • Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of numerous factors We may experience significant variation in our future results of operations. Fluctuations in our future performance may result from numerous factors, including, among other things, market conditions and the resulting volatility, credit and counterparty risks that may result; introductions of, or enhancements to, trade execution services by us or our competitors; the value of our securities positions and other financial instruments and our ability to manage the risks attendant thereto; the volume of our market making and trade execution activities; the dollar value of securities and other instruments traded; the composition and profile of our order flow; our market share with institutional and broker-dealer clients; the performance and size of, and volatility in, our client market making portfolios; the performance and size of, and volatility in our non-client principal trading activities; movements of credit spreads; HECM origination and HMBS securitization volumes and spreads; the overall size of our balance sheet and capital usage; the potential impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets; the performance of our global operations, trading technology and technology infrastructure; costs associated with overall business growth; the effectiveness of our self-clearing and futures platforms and our ability to manage risk related thereto; the availability of credit and liquidity in the marketplace; our ability to prevent erroneous trade orders from being submitted due to technology or other issues (such as occurred on August 1, 2012) and avoiding the consequences thereof; the performance, operation and connectivity to various market centers; our ability to manage personnel, compensation, overhead and other expenses, including our occupancy expenses under our office leases and expenses and charges relating to legal and regulatory proceedings; the strength of our client relationships; changes in payments for order flow; changes to execution quality and changes in clearing, execution and regulatory transaction costs; interest rate movements; the addition or loss of executive management, sales, trading and technology professionals; legislative, legal, regulatory and financial reporting changes; legal, regulatory matters or proceedings; geopolitical risk; the pending strategic business combination of the Company and GETCO and the costs and integration associated therewith; the amount, timing and cost of capital expenditures, acquisitions and divestitures; the integration, performance and operation of acquired businesses; the incurrence of costs associated with acquisitions and dispositions; investor sentiment; technological changes and events; seasonality; competition; and other economic conditions. Such factors may also have an impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives, including, without limitation, increases in market share, growth and profitability in our four operating segments. If demand for our services declines or our performance deteriorates significantly due to any of the above factors, and we are unable to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. As a result of the foregoing factors, period-to-period comparisons of our revenues and operating results are not necessarily meaningful and such comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. There also can be no assurance that we will be able to 17 Table of Contents continue the rates of revenue growth that we have experienced in the past or that we will be able to improve our operating results. • Our trading activities expose us to the risk of significant losses We conduct our trading activities predominantly as principal, which subjects our capital to significant risks. These activities involve the purchase, sale or short sale of securities and other financial instruments for our own account and, accordingly, involve risks of price fluctuations and illiquidity, or rapid changes in the liquidity of markets that may limit or restrict our ability to either resell securities or other financial instruments we purchase or to repurchase securities or other financial instruments we sell in such transactions. From time to time, we may have large position concentrations in securities or other financial instruments of a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry, which could result in higher trading losses than would occur if our positions and activities were less concentrated. The performance of our trading activities primarily depends upon our ability to attract order flow, the composition and profile of our order flow, the dollar value of securities and other financial instruments traded, the performance and size of, and volatility in, our market making portfolios, the performance and size of, and volatility in our non-client principal trading activities, market interaction, the skill of our trading personnel, our ability to design, build and effectively deploy the necessary technologies and operations to support all of our trading activities and to remain competitive, general market conditions, effective hedging strategies and risk management processes, the price volatility of specific securities or other financial instruments, and the availability and allocation of capital. To attract order flow, we must be competitive on price, size of securities positions and other financial instruments traded, liquidity offerings, order execution speed, technology, reputation, payment for order flow, and client relationships and service. In our role as a market maker, we attempt to derive a profit from the difference between the prices at which we buy and sell securities. However, competitive forces and regulatory requirements often require us to match, or improve upon, the quotes other market makers display and to hold varying amounts of securities in inventory. By having to maintain inventory positions, we are subject to a high degree of risk. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage such risk successfully or that we will not experience significant losses from such activities. For example, on August 1, 2012, at the open of trading at the NYSE, we experienced a technology issue related to the installation of trading software which resulted in our broker dealer subsidiary, KCA, sending numerous erroneous orders in NYSE-listed and NYSE Arca securities into the market. KCA subsequently traded out of its entire erroneous trade position, which resulted in a realized pre-tax loss of approximately $457.6 million. All of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. • Regulatory and legal uncertainties could harm our business The capital markets industry in the United States and abroad where we conduct our business is subject to extensive oversight under federal, state and applicable foreign laws, rules and regulations, as well as SRO rules. Broker-dealers, investment advisors, mortgage brokers and financial services firms are subject to regulations concerning all aspects of their business, including trade practices, best execution practices, capital adequacy, record-keeping, anti-money laundering, fair and requisite disclosure, and the conduct of their officers, supervisors and employees. Our operations and profitability may be directly affected by, among other things, additional legislation or regulation, or changes in rules promulgated by domestic or foreign governments or regulators; and changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws, regulations and rules (including those related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act). Failure to comply with these laws, rules or regulations could result in, among other things, administrative or court proceedings, censure, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or injunctions, loss of membership, or the suspension or disqualification of the market participant or broker-dealer, and/or their officers, supervisors or employees. Our ability to comply with applicable laws, regulations and rules is largely dependent on our internal systems and procedures to ensure compliance, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. Each of 18 Table of Contents our regulators engages in a series of periodic and special examinations and investigations to monitor compliance with such laws, rules and regulations that may result in disciplinary actions in the future due to alleged noncompliance. Federal, state and foreign legislators, regulators and SROs are constantly proposing, or enacting, new regulations which may impact our business. These rules include rules regarding: a consolidated audit trail, dark pool regulation, increased transaction and other fees, transaction taxes, enhanced requirements regarding market access (including SEC Rule 15c3-5) and for technology testing and implementation, increased obligations for market makers, higher capital requirements, and market access and order routing limitations. In addition, a number of new regulations were either adopted or implemented in 2012 that impact market makers. Additionally, the SEC could raise its Section 31 fees substantially in the future in order to meet its budgetary needs. Further, in January 2010, the SEC issued a Concept Release seeking public comment on certain market structure issues such as high frequency trading, colocation, internalization, and markets that do not publicly display price quotations including dark liquidity pools. In particular, high frequency trading continues to be the focus of extensive and rigorous regulatory scrutiny by federal, state and foreign regulators and SROs, and such scrutiny is likely to continue. Although no rules have yet been proposed in the U.S., there are market participants that continue to call upon the U.S. Congress and the SEC to propose and adopt rules that could curtail (or eliminate) high-frequency trading in some fashion, including: restrictions on colocation, order-to-execution ratios, minimum quote life, and further transaction taxes. In addition, similar debates are ongoing in Europe regarding high-frequency trading which has led policymakers to consider or adopt laws or regulations. For example, financial transaction taxes have been adopted in France and Italy, and proposed German legislation could, among other things, place limits on order-to-execution ratios and require all high-frequency traders on German exchanges to be authorized to trade in Germany. Any of these adopted or proposed laws, rules or regulations, as well as any regulatory or legal actions or proceedings, changes in legislation or regulation, and changes in market customs and practices could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. Urban is subject to a complex and diverse framework of federal, state, and local laws and regulations. Failure to adhere to these laws and regulations could result in written citation, fines, suspension, or potential loss of licensing. • Our business is subject to substantial risk from litigation, regulatory investigations and potential liability under federal, state and international laws, rules and regulations Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability. We are exposed to liability under federal, state and foreign securities laws, other federal, state and foreign laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by U.S. and foreign regulators. We are also subject to the risk of litigation. From time to time, we, and certain of our past and present officers, directors and employees, have been named as parties in legal actions, regulatory investigations and proceedings, arbitrations and administrative claims and have been subject to claims alleging the violation of such laws, rules and regulations, some of which have resulted in the payment of fines, awards, judgments and settlements. We are currently subject to such matters as further described in Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” herein. Moreover, we may be required to indemnify past and present officers, directors and employees in regards to these matters. Certain corporate events, such as a reduction in our workforce, could also result in additional litigation or arbitration. As we intend to defend vigorously any such litigation or proceeding, we could incur significant legal expenses. An adverse resolution of any current or future lawsuits, legal or regulatory proceedings or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and reputation, financial condition and operating results. By way of example, litigation, regulatory and liability risks may arise, and the technology issue of August 1, 2012 and related events are an example of developments 19 Table of Contents that may result in these risks being realized. In addition, several putative class action and/or derivative lawsuits have been filed by purported stockholders of the Company challenging the proposed Merger. • Substantial competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance All aspects of our business are intensely competitive. We face competition in our businesses primarily from global, national and regional broker-dealers, exchanges, ATSs, crossing networks, ECNs and dark liquidity pools. Equities competition is based on a number of factors, including our execution standards (e.g., price, liquidity, speed and other client-defined measures), client relationships and service, reputation, payment for order flow, market structure, product and service offerings, and technology. In our fixed income and other businesses, we face competition from global, national and regional broker-dealers who provide fixed income trade execution services, fixed income research firms, spot foreign exchange execution firms and capital markets service firms. Competition in our fixed income business is primarily on the basis of the quality of trade execution services, quality of research, market intelligence, quality of professional personnel, price execution, consistency of performance, ability to make markets in a variety of securities, balance sheet utilization and reputation. A number of competitors of our businesses have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Some of our competitors offer a wider range of services and financial products than we do and have greater name recognition and a more extensive client base. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we do to new or evolving opportunities and technologies, market changes, and client requirements and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities and offer more attractive terms to clients. Moreover, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties or may consolidate to enhance their services and products. It is possible that new competitors, or alliances among competitors, may also emerge and they may acquire significant market share. The trend toward increased competition in our businesses is expected to continue and it is possible that our competitors may acquire increased market share. As a result of the above, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. • We could lose significant sources of revenues if we lose any of our larger clients At times, a limited number of clients have accounted for a significant portion of our order flow, revenues and profitability, and we expect a large portion of the future demand for, and profitability from, our trade execution services to remain concentrated within a limited number of clients. Nearly all of our clients are not contractually obligated to utilize us for trade execution services and, accordingly, these clients may direct their trade execution activities to other execution providers or market centers at any time. Some of these clients have grown organically or acquired market makers and specialist firms to internalize order flow or have entered into strategic relationships with competitors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain these major clients or that such clients will maintain or increase their demand for our trade execution services. There is a risk that the pending Merger itself could cause certain of our clients to reduce the amount of orders they send us or to cease trading with us altogether. The loss of that order flow could have a material adverse impact on our business. Further, the integration process related to the Merger could result in disruption to our ongoing businesses or cause issues with standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the ability of us to maintain relationships with customers, or to solicit new customers. The loss, or a significant reduction, of demand for our services from any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. By way of example, as a result of our aforementioned technology issue on August 1, 2012 and the resultant loss, we experienced reduced order flow from our clients and lost certain clients. These losses could have a material adverse impact on our business. There is a risk that even after the pending Merger, order flow from our clients may not return to historical levels and our clients may not return or resume placing orders with us at prior levels. 20 Table of Contents • Exposure to credit risk may adversely affect our results of operations We are at risk if issuers whose securities or other instruments we hold, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under derivative contracts or financing agreements, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries or guarantors default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. Such defaults could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We conduct the majority of our trade executions as principal or riskless-principal with broker-dealers, financial services firms and institutional counterparties. We are exposed to credit risk from our counterparties when we self-clear the securities transactions and when we clear the securities transactions through an unaffiliated clearing broker, the latter of which is the case with a minority of our trade executions. Under the terms of the agreements between us and our clearing brokers, the clearing brokers have the right to charge us for losses that result from a counterparty’s failure to fulfill its contractual obligations. No assurance can be given that any such counterparty will not default on its obligations, which default could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. • Self-clearing exposes us to significant operational, financial, and liquidity risks We self-clear substantially all of our domestic and international equities transactions using a proprietary platform and intend to expand across product offerings and asset classes in the future. Self-clearing requires us to finance the majority of our inventory and maintain margin deposits at clearing organizations. Self-clearing also exposes our business to operational risks, including business and technology disruption, operational inefficiencies, liquidity and financing risks and potentially increased expenses and lost revenue opportunities. While our clearing platform, operational processes, enhanced infrastructure, and current and future financing arrangements, have been carefully designed, we may nevertheless encounter difficulties that may lead to operating inefficiencies, including technology issues, dissatisfaction amongst our client base, disruption in the infrastructure that supports the business, inadequate liquidity (as we experienced during the events of August 1, 2012), increased margin requirements with clearing organizations and counterparties who provide financing with respect to inventories, reductions in available borrowing capacity and financial loss. Any such delay, disruption or failure could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions and manage our exposure to risk. Moreover, any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. • We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other changes or adequately protect our intellectual property The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service announcements, introductions and enhancements, and changing client demands. If we are not able to keep up with these rapid changes on a timely and cost-effective basis, we may be at a competitive disadvantage. The widespread adoption of new internet, networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require us to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure. Any failure by us to anticipate or respond adequately to technological advancements (including advancements related to low-latency technologies, execution and messaging speeds), client requirements or changing industry standards or to adequately protect our intellectual property, or any delays in the development, introduction or availability of new services, products or enhancements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. • Capacity constraints, systems failures and delays could harm our business Our business activities are heavily dependent on the integrity and performance of the computer and communications systems supporting them and the services of certain third parties. Our systems 21 Table of Contents and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, technological or operational failures, natural disasters, power loss, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorism and other similar events. Extraordinary trading volumes or other events could cause our computer systems to operate at an unacceptably low speed or even fail. In addition, the challenges associated with integrating our technology platforms with GETCO’s technology platforms following the expected completion of the Merger may heighten such vulnerabilities or constraints. While we have invested significant amounts of capital to upgrade the capacity, reliability and scalability of our systems, there can be no assurance that our systems will be sufficient to handle current or future trading volumes and modifications themselves may result in unanticipated and undesirable consequences. For example, our August 1, 2012 technology issue that led to the August 1, 2012 Loss related to an update of trading software. Although we continually update and modify our trading software in response to changes in our business, rule changes and for various other reasons, there are no assurances that such updates and modifications to our trading software will not result in future trading losses. Many of our systems are, and much of our infrastructure is, designed to accommodate additional growth without material redesign or replacement; however, we may need to make significant investments in additional hardware and software to accommodate growth. Failure to make necessary expansions and upgrades to our systems and infrastructure could lead to failures and delays. Such failures and delays could cause substantial losses for us and for our clients and could subject us to claims from our clients for losses, including litigation claiming, among other matters, fraud or negligence. In the past, our trading systems have experienced performance issues that resulted in some clients’ orders being executed at prices they did not anticipate. From time to time, we have reimbursed our clients for losses incurred in connection with systems failures and delays. Capacity constraints, systems failures and delays may occur in the future and could cause, among other things, unanticipated problems with our trading or operating systems, disruptions in our client and non-client market making activities, disruptions to service to our clients, slower system response times resulting in transactions not being processed as quickly as our clients desire, decreased levels of client service and client satisfaction, and harm to our reputation. If any of these events were to occur, we could suffer substantial financial losses, a loss of clients, or a reduction in the growth of our client base, increased operating expenses, litigation or other client claims, and regulatory sanctions or additional regulatory burdens. For example, the aforementioned technology issue resulted in our trading systems not functioning properly, resulting in our broker dealer subsidiary, KCA, sending numerous erroneous orders in NYSE-listed and NYSE Arca securities into the market. As a result of trading out of this entire erroneous trade position, we realized a pre-tax loss of approximately $457.6 million. There is no assurance that we will not be faced with the same or similar occurrence in the future. We have developed business continuity capabilities that can be utilized in the event of a disaster or disruption. Since the timing and impact of disasters and disruptions are unpredictable, we have to be flexible in responding to actual events as they occur. Significant business disruptions can vary in their scope. A disruption might only affect the Company, a building the Company occupies, a business district in which the Company is located, a city in which the Company is located or an entire region. Within each of these areas, the severity of the disruption can also vary from minimal to severe. Our business continuity facilities are designed to allow us to substantially continue operations if we are prevented from accessing or utilizing our primary offices for an extended period of time. Although we have made significant efforts to develop, implement and maintain reasonable business continuity plans, the Company cannot guarantee our systems will properly or fully recover after a significant business disruption in a timely fashion. If we are prevented from using any of our current trading operations or any third party services, or if our business continuity operations do not work effectively, we may not have complete business continuity. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 22 Table of Contents • We are highly dependent on key personnel We are highly dependent on a limited number of key personnel. Our success will be dependent to a large degree on our ability to retain the services of our existing key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. Competition for such personnel is intense. The loss of the services of any of our key executives or the inability to identify, hire and retain necessary highly qualified executive management in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our success also depends, in part, on the highly skilled, and often specialized, individuals we employ. Our ability to attract and retain management, trading, market-making, sales and technology professionals, as well as quantitative analysts and programmers is important to our business strategy. The Company strives to provide high quality services that will allow it to establish and maintain long-term relationships with its clients. The Company’s ability to do so depends, in large part, upon the individual employees who represent the Company in its dealings with such clients. There can be no assurance that the Company will not lose such professionals due to increased competition or other factors, or that such professionals will not leave the Company voluntarily as a result of the pending Merger and/or the integration of the Company’s and GETCO businesses in the future. The loss of sales, trading or technology professionals, particularly senior professionals with broad industry or technical expertise and long-term relationships with clients, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. For example, in order to retain such key personnel, on December 19, 2012, we extended the employment contract with Thomas Joyce, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, to continue his service for the Company. The original employment agreement with Mr. Joyce would have expired on December 31, 2012, but was extended in consideration of the desire of the Company’s board of directors to ensure Mr. Joyce’s service to the Company through at least the consummation of the business combination with GETCO. The term of employment was consequently extended to expire on the first to occur of (i) the completion of the Merger with GETCO and (ii) December 31, 2014. In consideration, Mr. Joyce agreed to receive a lump sum cash payment equal to $7.5 million in lieu of his right to receive severance payments and benefits upon the completion of the Merger with GETCO. • Urban’s business is subject to substantial risks Urban originates, funds, buys and sells HECMs, commonly referred to as reverse mortgages and securitizes and sells the HECMs as HMBS. Urban is subject to approval of, and is heavily regulated by, federal and state regulatory agencies as a mortgage lender, GNMA issuer, broker and servicer. The reverse mortgage business is subject to substantial risks, including market, credit, interest rate, liquidity, reputational, operational and legal risks. For example, values of mortgage assets or revenues can be adversely affected by changes in market conditions or interest rates; the secondary market for the FHA insured HECM loans is not assured; to the extent the program requires Congressional appropriations in future years, which are not forthcoming, the program could be jeopardized; and/or, consumer demand could be reduced if FHA actions result in a reduction of initial principal limit available to borrowers. In limited instances, reverse mortgages are also subject to cross-over risk that the total outstanding loan balance will exceed the value of the home securing the loan. Urban can be requested to repurchase loans under various conditions, or required to indemnify HUD with respect to mortgage insurance claims. In addition, Urban faces greater responsibility and has potential administrative liability in connection with the selection and supervision of its third party originator business partners. As a GNMA issuer, Urban has additional risks and liabilities associated with the funding of advances and repurchasing of loans. Urban may be required to purchase loans under certain conditions, and repurchased loans that have become due and payable may not be assigned to HUD and must be serviced to termination. Urban will also be responsible for funding any payments due to borrowers in a timely manner, remitting to investors’ interest accrued, and paying for interest shortfalls. Urban is also subject to market risk on unpooled HECM balances to be securitized in subsequent HMBS participations. 23 Table of Contents All of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. • We may not be able to use our net operating loss carryforwards During 2012 Knight generated a significant net operating loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Although the majority of this net operating loss will be carried back against taxable income earned by the Company in 2010 and 2011, the portion of our 2012 net operating loss that exceeds our carryback capacity will be carried forward. The use of our net operating loss carryforwards is subject to uncertainty because it is dependent upon the amount of taxable income we generate in the future. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the net operating loss carryforwards before they expire. The amount of our net operating loss carryforwards has not been audited or otherwise validated by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). The calculation of the amount of our net operating loss carryforwards is not straightforward and is subject to uncertainty due to the complexity and ambiguity of Section 382 of the IRS Internal Revenue Code. The IRS could challenge the amount of our net operating loss. Also, possible changes in legislation could negatively affect our ability to use the tax benefits associated with our net operating loss carryforwards. All of these above reasons could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. • We face risks to the extent we expand our capital markets and mortgage related activities The expansion of our business including our capital markets business, mortgage trading and secondary bank debt transactions may increase credit-related, liquidity, legal liability, operational and reputational concerns. In addition, as an underwriter, a broker-dealer and investment adviser, we are exposed to substantial liability under the federal and state securities laws, other federal and state laws and court decisions, including decisions with respect to underwriters’ liability and limitations on the ability of issuers to indemnify underwriters, as well as with respect to the handling of customer accounts. Underwriters may be held liable for material misstatements or omissions of fact in a prospectus or other offering documents used in connection with the securities being offered and broker-dealers may be held liable for statements made by their securities analysts or other personnel. Our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liability to our clients and third parties, including our clients’ stockholders, under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities and other transactions and potential liability for advice provided to participants in corporate transactions. • Acquisitions, strategic investments, divestitures and strategic relationships involve certain risks We have historically undertaken strategic acquisitions. We may continue to pursue opportunistic strategic acquisitions of, investments in, or divestitures of businesses and technologies. Acquisitions may entail numerous risks, including difficulties in assessing values for acquired businesses, intangible assets and technologies, difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations and products, diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, employee retention issues, assumption of unknown material liabilities of acquired companies, amortization of acquired intangible assets and the potential writedown of goodwill due to impairment, which could reduce future reported earnings, or result in potential loss of clients or key employees of acquired companies. We may not be able to integrate successfully any operations, personnel, services or products that we have acquired or may acquire in the future. Divestitures also entail numerous risks. The divestiture of an existing business could reduce our future operating cash flows and revenues, make our financial results more volatile, and/or cause a decline in revenues and profits. A divestiture could also cause a decline in the price of our common stock and increased reliance on other elements of our core business operations. If we do not successfully manage the risks associated with a divestiture, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We also may not find suitable purchasers for 24 Table of Contents businesses we may wish to divest. In addition, the decision to pursue acquisitions, divestitures or other strategic transactions may jeopardize our ability to retain the services of our existing key employees and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. Strategic investments may also entail some of the risks described above. If these investments are unsuccessful, we may need to incur charges against earnings. We have also established a number of strategic relationships. These relationships and others we may enter into in the future may be important to our business and growth prospects. We may not be able to maintain these relationships or develop new strategic alliances. • International activities involve certain risks We have international operations which expose us to regulatory, governmental and cultural risks. The financial services industry in many foreign countries is heavily regulated, much like the U.S. The varying compliance requirements of these different regulatory jurisdictions and other factors may limit our ability to successfully conduct or expand our business internationally. It also may increase our costs of investment. Additionally, operating international locations involves execution risk. We may not be able to manage these costs or risks effectively. • The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly Our Class A Common Stock, in particular, and the U.S. securities markets, in general, have experienced significant price fluctuations in recent years. If the market price of our Class A Common Stock fluctuates significantly, we may become the subject of securities class action litigation which may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Our future quarterly operating results may not consistently meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Class A Common Stock. • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our earnings A significant portion of our international business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar can therefore affect the value of non-U.S. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. Potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored, and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the Company’s financial performance. These strategies may include the financing of non-U.S. dollar assets with borrowings in the same currency and the use of various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows. Any material fluctuations in currencies could have a material effect on our operating results. • We have long-term debt, which could impair our financial condition and adversely affect our ability to react to changes in our business As of December 31, 2012, we had long-term debt of $388.8 million and $50.0 million of debt which will become due within one year and is classified as short-term debt. This debt comprised (i) $338.8 million under our $375.0 million Cash Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes (“Notes”) issued in March 2010 and due in full on March 15, 2015 and (ii) $100.0 million under our senior secured Term Loan (the “Term Credit Agreement”), entered into on June 29, 2011 and repayable in three installments of $25.0 million on June 28, 2013, $25.0 million on December 27, 2013 and $50.0 million on June 27, 2014. As of December 31, 2012 we also had $200.0 million of available borrowing capacity under our renewed senior secured Revolving Loan (the “Revolver Credit Agreement”), entered into on June 27, 2012 with substantially the same consortium of banks on substantially the same terms and conditions as the Term Credit Agreement and will expire on June 26, 2013. Our significant indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; 25 Table of Contents • making it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our businesses; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and • exposing us to interest rate risk because the interest rate on borrowings under our credit facilities is variable. Our ability to make payments of the principal on and refinance our indebtedness, including our Term Loan, our Revolving Credit Agreement, and our Notes, depends on our future performance, our ability to generate cash flow and market conditions, which are subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt, undertaking additional borrowings or issuing additional debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets, the credit markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. • Despite our current indebtedness levels, we may incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our significant indebtedness If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks described in the preceding risk factor could intensify. In addition, it is possible that we may incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. Furthermore, if future debt financing is not available to us when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to grow our business, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or refinance maturing debt, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. • We may be unable to remain in compliance with the financial or other covenants contained in our debt instruments, including our senior credit facilities Many of our debt instruments, including our senior credit facilities, contain financial and other covenants that impose significant requirements on us and limit our ability to engage in certain transactions or activities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient earnings to enable us to satisfy the financial covenants included in our debt instruments. In the event that we are unable to comply with these restrictions and other covenants and are not able to obtain waivers from our lenders, we would be in default under these agreements and, among other things, our debt may be accelerated by our lenders. In such case, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. • Restrictive covenants in agreements and instruments governing our debt may adversely affect our ability to operate our business The terms of certain of our indebtedness, including the agreements governing our senior credit facilities, contain, and our future debt instruments may contain, various provisions that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • create or incur liens; 26 Table of Contents • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person; • sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; • make distributions from our subsidiaries; • make capital expenditures; • make loans and investments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • enter into swap agreements; • enter into new material lines of business; • make payments on subordinated indebtedness; and • modify certain agreements, including organizational documents. In addition, the indenture governing the Notes (“Indenture”) contains restrictions on consolidations, mergers and sales of all or substantially all assets. • We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to pay the cash due upon conversions of the Notes or to repurchase the Notes upon a fundamental change, and our other existing and future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the Notes Holders of the Notes, who currently hold an aggregate of $375.0 million of outstanding principal amount, have the right to require us to repurchase the Notes upon the occurrence of a “fundamental change” (see below) at 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and upon conversion of any Notes, we will be required to pay to the holder of a Note a cash payment based on the applicable conversion rate as described in the Indenture. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to repurchase Notes surrendered or settle conversions of the Notes. In addition, our ability to repurchase the Notes or to pay cash upon conversions of the Notes may be limited by law or by agreements governing our other existing or future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the Indenture or to pay cash upon future conversions of the Notes as required by the Indenture would constitute a default under the Indenture. A default under the Indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our other existing or future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof. A “fundamental change” will be deemed to have occurred if any of the following occurs: (1) a person or group discloses in a filing under the Exchange Act that such person or group has become the direct or indirect beneficial owner of our common equity representing more than 50% of the voting power of our common equity; (2) consummation of (A) any recapitalization, reclassification or change of our Class A common stock as a result of which our Class A common stock would be converted into, or exchanged for, stock, other securities, other property or assets or (B) any share exchange, consolidation or merger of us pursuant to which our Class A common stock will be converted into cash, securities or other assets or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of us and our subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person other than one of our subsidiaries, provided, however, that a transaction where the holders of all classes of our common equity immediately prior to such transaction that is a share exchange, consolidation or merger own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of all classes of common equity interests of the continuing or surviving person or transferee or the parent thereof immediately 27 Table of Contents after such event will not be a fundamental change; (3) our stockholders approve any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of us; or (4) our Class A common stock (or other common stock constituting, in whole or in part, the reference property then underlying the Notes) ceases to be publicly listed. However, a transaction or transactions described in clause (2) above will not constitute a fundamental change if at least 90% of the consideration received or to be received by our Class A common stockholders consists of shares of common equity interests that are listed or quoted on any of the New York Stock Exchange, the NASDAQ Global Select Market or the NASDAQ Global Market or will be so listed or quoted when issued or exchanged in connection with such transaction or transactions and as a result of such transaction or transactions the Notes become convertible into such consideration. • The conditional conversion features of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results In the event the conditional conversion features of the Notes are triggered, holders of Notes will be entitled to convert the Notes at any time during specified periods at their option as described in the Indenture. If one or more holders elect to convert their Notes, we would be required to pay cash to such holder to settle any such conversion, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to recharacterize all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Notes as a short-term rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. A conditional conversion of Notes could occur if prior to December 15, 2014: (1) during any fiscal quarter (and only during such fiscal quarter), if the last reported sale price of the Class A common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to 150% of the applicable conversion price on each applicable trading day; (2) during the five business day period after any 10 consecutive trading day period (the “measurement period”) in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes for each trading day of such measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our Class A common stock and the applicable conversion rate on each such trading day; or (3) there occurs any of (A) the issuance to holders of our Class A common stock subscription rights entitling them for a period of not more than 45 days after the announcement of such issuance to purchase shares of our Class A common stock at a price per share less than the average of the last reported sale prices of our Class A common stock for the 10 trading days preceding the announcement of such issuance; (B) the distribution to holders of our Class A common stock of assets, debt securities or rights to purchase our securities, which distribution has a per share value exceeding 10% of the last reported sale price of our Class A common stock preceding the date of announcement for such distribution; or (C) a fundamental change, or a transaction that would be a fundamental change but for the proviso in clause (2) of the definition of such term above, occurs or if we are a party to a consolidation, merger, binding share exchange, or transfer or lease of all or substantially all of our assets, pursuant to which our Class A common stock would be converted into cash, securities or other assets, that does not also constitute a “fundamental change”. • The accounting for the Notes will result in our having to recognize interest expense significantly greater than the stated interest rate of the Notes As described in the Indenture, we will settle conversions of the Notes entirely in cash. Accordingly, the conversion option that is part of the Notes is accounted for as a derivative pursuant to accounting standards relating to derivative instruments and hedging activities. In general, this resulted in an initial valuation of the conversion option, which was bifurcated from the debt component of the Notes, resulting in an original issue discount. The original issue discount will be accreted to interest expense over the term of the Notes, which will result in an effective interest rate reported in our Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements significantly in excess of the stated coupon rate of the Notes. This will reduce our earnings and could adversely affect the price at which our Class A common stock trades, but will have no effect on the amount of cash interest paid to holders or on our cash flows. 28 Table of Contents • Our futures business presents various risks We acquired certain assets of the futures division of Penson Financial Services, Inc. in June 2012 which presents various risks. This futures commission merchant business, which we refer to as the FCM business, and client activities expose us to several risks including the risk an FCM client is unable to fulfill its contracted obligation as the Company guarantees the performance of its clients to the respective clearing houses or other brokers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to integrate the FCM business into our own operations successfully, manage the credit risk effectively, or that we will profitably operate the FCM. Additionally, the recent bankruptcy of MF Global Holdings, Ltd. and Penson Financial Services, Inc., and the fraud allegations against Peregrine Financial Group Inc., have led to increased regulatory scrutiny and decreased client confidence in the U.S. futures industry. Any additional regulatory restrictions enacted in response to these developments could be costly or we may be unable to comply. Reduced client confidence in the futures industry may lead to significantly decreased trading volume. Additionally, as a custodian of client funds, we are subject to a number of regulatory requirements which could expose us to regulatory risk in the event we are not in compliance with these various rules and regulations. If any of these risks were to materialize, they could cause us to experience losses that could affect the profitability of our FCM business and potentially restrict our ability to grow the FCM business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 