Item 1A. Risk Factors Declines in average selling prices (“ASPs”) in the hard drive industry could adversely affect our operating results. The hard drive industry historically has experienced declining ASPs. Our ASPs tend to decline when competitors lower prices as a result of decreased costs or to absorb excess capacity, liquidate excess inventories, restructure or attempt to gain market share. Our ASPs also decline when there is a shift in the mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products increase relative to those of higher priced products. When ASPs in the hard drive industry decline, our ASPs are also likely to decline, which adversely affects our operating results. If we fail to anticipate or timely respond to changes in the markets for hard drives, our operating results could be adversely affected. Over the past few years the consumer market for computers has shifted significantly towards lower priced systems. If we are not able to continue to offer a competitively priced hard drive for the low-cost PC market, our share of that market will likely fall, which could harm our operating results. The market for hard drives is also fragmenting into a variety of devices and products. Many industry analysts expect, as do we, that, as content increasingly converts to digital technology from the older, analog technology, the technology of computers and consumer electronics will continue to converge, and hard drives will be found in many CE products other than computers. In addition, we expect that the consumer market for multi-media applications, including audio-video products, incorporating high capacity, and handheld consumer storage will continue to grow. However, because this market remains relatively new, accurate forecasts for future growth remain challenging. Moreover, some devices, such as personal video recorders and digital video recorders, or some new PC operating systems which allow greater consumer choice in levels of functionality, therefore allowing for greater market differentiation, may require attributes not currently offered in our products, resulting in a need to develop new interfaces, form factors, technical specifications or hard drive features, increasing our overall operational expense without corresponding incremental revenue at this stage. If we are not successful in continuing to deploy our hard drive technology and expertise to develop new products for the emerging CE market, or if we are required to incur significant costs in developing such products, it may harm our operating results. Our prices and margins are subject to declines due to unpredictable end-user demand and oversupply of hard drives. Demand for our hard drives depends on the demand for systems manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. The demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for hard drives in any given period. As a result, the hard drive market has experienced periods of excess capacity which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories and intense price competition. If intense price competition occurs, we may be forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which could result in lower revenue and gross margins. Our failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results. The hard drive industry faces difficulties in accurately forecasting market and customer demand for its products. The variety and volume of products we manufacture is based in part on these forecasts. If our forecasts exceed actual market demand, or if market demand decreases significantly from our forecasts, then we could experience periods of product oversupply and price decreases, which could impact our financial performance. If our forecasts do not meet actual market demand, or if market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts or beyond our ability to add 16 Table of Contents manufacturing capacity, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, which could result in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. We also use forecasts in making decisions regarding investment of our resources. For example, as the hard drive industry transitions from the Parallel Advanced Technology Attachment (“PATA”) interface to the SATA interface, we may invest more resources in the development of products using the SATA interface. If our forecasts regarding the replacement of the PATA interface with the SATA interface are inaccurate, we may not have products available to meet our customers’ needs. In addition, although we receive forecasts from our customers, they are not generally obligated to purchase the forecasted amounts. In particular, sales volumes in the distribution and retail channels are volatile and harder to predict than sales to our OEM or ODM customers. We consider these forecasts in determining our component needs and our inventory requirements. If we fail to accurately forecast our customers’ product demands, we may have inadequate or excess inventory of our products or components, which could adversely affect our operating results. Increases in areal density may outpace customers’ demand for storage capacity, which may lower the prices our customers are willing to pay for new products. Historically, the industry has experienced periods of variable areal density growth rates. When the rate of areal density growth increases, the rate of increase may exceed the increase in our customers’ demand for aggregate storage capacity. Furthermore, our customers’ demand for storage capacity may not continue to grow at current industry estimates as a result of developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital rights management or otherwise. These factors could lead to our customers’ storage capacity needs being satisfied with lower capacity hard drives at lower prices, thereby decreasing our revenue. As a result, even with increasing aggregate demand for storage capacity, our ASPs could decline, which could adversely affect our operating results. Expansion into new hard drive markets may cause our capital expenditures to increase and if we do not successfully expand into new markets, our business may suffer. To remain a significant supplier of hard drives, we will need to offer a broad range of hard drive products to our customers. We currently offer a variety of 3.5-inch hard drives for the desktop, enterprise, CE and external storage markets, and we also offer 2.5-inch form factor hard drives for the mobile, CE and external storage markets. However, demand for hard drives may shift to products in form factors or with interfaces that our competitors offer but which we do not. Expansion into other hard drive markets and resulting increases in manufacturing capacity requirements may require us to make substantial additional investments due in part because our operations are largely vertically integrated. If we fail to successfully expand into new hard drive markets with products that we do not currently offer, we may lose business to our competitors who offer these products. If we fail to successfully manage our new product development or new market expansion, or if we fail to anticipate the issues associated with such development or expansion, our business may suffer. While we continue to develop new products and look to expand into other hard drive markets, the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to anticipate and manage a variety of issues associated with these new products and new markets, such as: • difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp; • market acceptance; • effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand; and • quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new product introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. 17 Table of Contents Further, we need to identify how any of the hard drive markets into which we are expanding may have different characteristics from the markets in which we currently exist and properly address these differences. These characteristics may include: • demand volume growth rates; • demand seasonality; • product generation development rates; • customer concentrations; • warranty expectations and product return policies; and • cost, performance and compatibility requirements. Our business may suffer if we fail to successfully anticipate and manage these issues associated with our product development and market expansion. For example, our branded products are designed to attach to and interoperate with a wide variety of PC and CE devices and therefore their functionality is reliant on the manufacturer of such devices, or the associated operating systems, enabling the manufacturer’s devices to operate with our branded products. If our branded products are not compatible with a wide variety of devices, or if device manufacturers design their devices so that our branded products cannot operate with them, and we cannot quickly and efficiently adapt our branded products to address these compatibility issues, our business could suffer. Expanding into new hard drive markets exposes our business to different seasonal demand cycles, which in turn could adversely affect our operating results. The CE and retail markets have different seasonal pricing and volume demand cycles as compared to the PC market. By expanding into these markets, we became exposed to seasonal fluctuations that are different from, and in addition to, those of the PC market. For example, because the primary customer for products such as our branded products are individual consumers, these markets experience a dramatic increase in demand during the winter holiday season. If we do not properly adjust our supply to new demand cycles such as this, we risk having excess inventory during periods of low demand and insufficient inventory during periods of high demand, therefore adversely affecting our operating results. If we do not predict the size and demands of the market for 2.5-inch hard drives, our business may suffer. To continue to increase the sale of our 2.5-inch hard drives in the mobile market, we must predict and successfully adapt to the differences between the desktop and mobile markets, such as different requirements, features and competitors. If we do not predict the size and demands of the markets for 2.5-inch hard drives, including the mobile market, our business may suffer. For example, if a market that traditionally has used 3.5-inch hard drives, such as the desktop PC market, shifts its volume demand to 2.5-inch hard drives at a faster rate than we anticipate, our ability to meet the demands of such market, as well as the mobile market, may be impaired, which may cause our business to suffer. Selling to the retail market has become an important part of our business, and if we fail to maintain and grow our market share or gain market acceptance of our branded products, our operating results could suffer. We sell our branded products directly to a select group of major retailers, for example, computer superstores and CE stores, and authorize sales through distributors to other retailers and online resellers. Our current retail customer base is primarily in the United States, Canada and Europe. We are facing increased competition from other companies for shelf space at a small number of major retailers that have strong buying power and pricing leverage. If we fail to successfully maintain a customer preference for WD®brand products or fail to successfully expand into multiple channels, our operating results may be adversely affected. We face strong competition in maintaining and trying to grow our market share in the retail market, particularly because of the relatively low barriers to entry in this market. For example, several additional hard drive manufacturers have recently disclosed plans to expand into the external storage market and as these companies attempt to gain market share, we may have difficulty in maintaining or growing our market share and there may be increased downward pressure on pricing. We will continue to introduce new products in the retail market that incorporate our disk drives; however, there can be no assurance that these products will gain market acceptance, and if they do not, our operating results could suffer. 18 Table of Contents Loss of market share with or by a key customer could harm our operating results. During the year ended June 27, 2008, a large percentage of our revenue came from sales to our top 10 customers, which accounted for 47% of our revenue. These customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, which often results in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. Even if we successfully qualify a product with a customer, the customer generally is not obligated to purchase any minimum volume of products from us and may be able to cancel an order or terminate its relationship with us at any time. Our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. If we lose a key customer, if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key customer suffers financial hardship, our operating results would likely be harmed. In addition, if customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our products to a particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. Current or future competitors may gain a technology advantage or develop an advantageous cost structure that we cannot match. It may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or process technology, which may allow them to offer products or services that have a significant advantage over the products and services that we offer. Advantages could be in capacity, performance, reliability, serviceability, or other attributes. Higher capacity storage needs have typically been better served by magnetic hard drives than flash memory as hard drive manufacturers can offer better value at high capacities, while lower capacity needs have been successfully served by solid state storage such as flash memory technology. Advances in magnetic, optical, semiconductor or other data storage technologies could result in competitive products that have better performance or lower cost per unit of capacity than our products. If we fail to be cost competitive against flash memory, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to companies using semiconductor technology. Further industry consolidation could provide competitive advantages to our competitors. The hard drive industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years. Consolidation by our competitors may enhance their capacity, abilities and resources and lower their cost structure, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage. Additionally, continued industry consolidation may lead to uncertainty in areas such as component availability, which could negatively impact our cost structure. Sales in the distribution channel are important to our business, and if we fail to maintain brand preference with our distributors or if distribution markets for hard drives weaken, our operating results could suffer. Our distribution customers typically sell to small computer manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers. We face significant competition in this channel as a result of limited product qualification programs and a significant focus on price and availability of product. If we fail to remain competitive in terms of our technology, quality, service and support, our distribution customers may favor our competitors, and our operating results could suffer. We also face significant risk in the distribution market for hard drives. If the distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing PC growth rate, technology transitions or a significant change in consumer buying preference from white box to branded PCs, or we experience significant price declines due to oversupply in the distribution channel, then our operating results would be adversely affected. The hard drive industry is highly competitive and can be characterized by significant shifts in market share among the major competitors. The price of hard drives has fallen over time due to increases in supply, cost reductions, technological advances and price reductions by competitors seeking to liquidate excess inventories or attempting to gain market share. In addition, rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. We also face competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory. These factors, taken together, may result in significant shifts in market share among the industry’s major participants. In addition, product recalls can lead to a loss of market share, which could adversely affect our operating results. 19 Table of Contents Some of our competitors with diversified business units outside the hard drive industry periodically sell hard drives at prices that we cannot profitably match. Some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their revenue from business units outside the hard drive industry. Because they do not depend solely on sales of hard drives to achieve profitability, they periodically sell hard drives at lower prices and operate their hard drive business unit at a loss while still remaining profitable overall. In addition, if these competitors can increase sales of non-hard drive products to the same customers, they may benefit from selling their hard drives at low prices. Our operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully compete with the pricing by these companies. If we fail to qualify our products with our customers, they may not purchase any units of a particular product line, which would have a significant adverse impact on our sales. We regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers. Once a product is accepted for qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification process can result in our losing sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced. The effect of missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited number of high volume OEMs, which continue to consolidate their share of the PC and CE markets. If product life cycles lengthen, we may have a significantly longer period to wait before we have an opportunity to qualify a new product with a customer, which could harm our competitive position. These risks are increased because we expect cost improvements and competitive pressures to result in declining gross margins on our current generation products. We are subject to risks related to product defects, which could result in product recalls and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated due to the unenforceability of liability limitations. We warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to five years. We test our hard drives in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. However, there can be no assurance that our testing will reveal latent defects in our products, which may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. Accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. Product recalls can be expensive to implement and, if a product recall occurs during the product’s warranty period, we may be required to replace the defective product. In addition, a product recall may damage our relationship with our customers, and we may lose market share with our customers, including our OEM and ODM customers. Our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than us. We record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. We may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products. If these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. A low cost structure is critical to our operating results and increased costs may adversely affect our operating margin. A low cost structure for our products, including critical components, labor and overhead, is critical to the success of our business, and our operating results depend on our ability to maintain competitive cost structures on new and established products. If our competitors are able to achieve a lower cost structure for manufacturing hard drives, and we are unable to match their cost structure, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors. Shortages of commodity materials, price volatility, or use by other industries of materials used in the hard drive industry, may increase our cost structure. There are costs for certain commodity materials, an increase of which increases our costs of manufacturing and transporting hard drives and key components. Shortages of materials such as stainless steel, aluminum, nickel, neodymium, ruthenium or platinum increase our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate these increased costs. For example, in advance of the 2008 Beijing Summer Olympics, in seeking to minimize pollution, the People’s Republic of China shut down factories within a specified radius of Beijing. These factory shut-downs may cause a future shortage in materials we use in nickel plating of magnetic media, causing prices to increase and adversely affecting our nickel plating costs. Additionally, perpendicular recording technology requires increased usage of precious metals such as ruthenium and platinum, the price of which may continue to be volatile, which 20 Table of Contents could adversely affect our operating margins. Furthermore, if other high volume industries increase their demand for materials such as these, our costs may further increase which could have an adverse effect on our operating margins. The volatility in the cost of oil also affects our transportation costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to pass these increased costs through to our customers. If we fail to maintain effective relationships with our major component suppliers, our supply of critical components may be at risk and our profitability could suffer. We make most of our own heads and media for some of our product families; however, we do not manufacture many of the component parts used in our hard drives. As a result, the success of our products depends on our ability to gain access to and integrate parts that are “best in class” from reliable component suppliers. To do so, we must effectively manage our relationships with our major component suppliers. We must also effectively integrate different products from a variety of suppliers, each of which employs variations on technology, which can impact, for example, feasible combinations of heads and media components. In August 2003, we settled litigation with a supplier who previously was the sole source of read channel devices for our hard drives. As a result of the disputes that gave rise to the litigation, our profitability was at risk until another supplier’s read channel devices could be designed into our products. Similar disputes with other strategic component suppliers could adversely affect our operating results. Violation of labor or environmental laws and practices by our suppliers or sub-suppliers could harm our business. We expect our suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including labor and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct. While our internal operating guidelines promote ethical business practices, we do not control our suppliers or sub-suppliers or their labor or environmental practices. The violation of labor, environmental or other laws by any of our suppliers or sub-suppliers, or divergence of a supplier’s or sub-supplier’s labor or environmental practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the U.S., could harm our business by: • interrupting or otherwise disrupting the shipment of our product components; • damaging our reputation; • forcing us to find alternate component sources; • reducing demand for our products (for example, through a consumer boycott); or • exposing us to potential liability for our supplier’s or sub-supplier’s wrongdoings. Dependence on a limited number of qualified suppliers of components and manufacturing equipment could lead to delays, lost revenue or increased costs. Certain components are available from a limited number of suppliers, and we are sole sourced with some of these suppliers on certain products. Because we depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain hard drive components and manufacturing equipment, each of the following could significantly harm our operating results: • an increase in the cost of such components or equipment; • an extended shortage of required components or equipment; • consolidation of key suppliers, such as the acquisition of Brilliant Manufacturing Limited by Nidec Corporation, the acquisition of Agere Systems Inc. by LSI Corporation, the acquisition of Infineon Technologies’ hard drive semiconductor business by LSI Corporation, the acquisition of Alps Electric Co. Ltd.’s magnetic device division’s assets and related intellectual property by TDK Corp, and the acquisition of Magnecomp Precision Technology Public Company Limited by TDK Corp; • failure of a key supplier’s business process; or • failure of key suppliers to remain in business, to remain independent merchant suppliers, to adjust to market conditions, or to meet our quality, yield or production requirements. 21 Table of Contents If components and equipment that we use are available from only a limited number of suppliers or are in short supply, it may negatively impact our production and cause us to lose revenue. Our future operating results may also depend substantially on our suppliers’ ability to timely qualify their components in our programs, and their ability to supply us with these components in sufficient volumes to meet our production requirements. A number of the components that we use are available from only a single or limited number of qualified outside suppliers, and may be used across multiple product lines. In addition, some of the components (or component types) used in our products are used in other devices, such as mobile telephones and digital cameras. If there is a significant simultaneous upswing in demand for such a component (or component type) from several high volume industries, resulting in a supply reduction, or a component is otherwise in short supply, or if a supplier fails to qualify or has a quality issue with a component, we may experience delays or increased costs in obtaining that component. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of materials used in the manufacture of magnetic components, or other necessary components, we may experience production delays which could cause us loss of revenue. If a component becomes unavailable, we could suffer significant loss of revenue. In addition, certain equipment we use in our manufacturing or testing processes is available only from a limited number of suppliers. Some of this equipment uses materials that at times could be in short supply. If these materials are not available, or are not available in the quantities we require for our manufacturing and testing processes, our ability to manufacture our products could be impacted, and we could suffer significant loss of revenue. Contractual commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying increased charges and cash advances for such components. To reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying components. As a result, we may be subject to cancellation charges if we cancel orders, which may occur when we make technology transitions or when our component needs change. In addition, we have entered into contractual commitments with component suppliers and may enter into contractual commitments with other component suppliers, in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those components, and enable us to purchase such components at favorable prices. Some of these commitments require or may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier; however, these commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such components. Failure by certain suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture components for our products may adversely affect our operations. We rely on suppliers for various component parts that we integrate into our hard drives but do not manufacture ourselves, such as semiconductors, motors, flex circuits and suspensions. Some of these components must be specifically designed to be compatible for use in our products, and are only available from a limited number of suppliers with whom we are sole sourced for certain products. We are therefore dependent on the suppliers of these various components to be able and willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop technology that can be successfully integrated with our products, and to manufacture these components efficiently. The failure of component suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture technology that can be integrated into our products may cause us to experience inability or delay in our manufacturing and shipment of hard drive products, or our expansion into new technology and markets, therefore adversely affecting our business and financial results. There are certain additional capital expenditure costs and asset utilization risks to our business associated with our strategy to vertically integrate our operations. Our vertical integration of head and media manufacturing resulted in a fundamental change in our operating structure, as we now manufacture heads and media for use in many of the hard drives we manufacture. Consequently, we make more capital investments than we would if we were not vertically integrated and carry a higher percentage of fixed costs than assumed in our prior financial business model. If the overall level of production decreases for any reason, and we are unable to reduce our fixed costs to match sales, our head or media manufacturing assets may face under-utilization that may impact our operating results. We are therefore subject to additional risks related to overall asset utilization, 22 Table of Contents including the need to operate at high levels of utilization to drive competitive costs and the need for assured supply of components that we do not manufacture ourselves. In addition, we may incur additional risks, including: • failure to continue to leverage the integration of our media technology with our head technology; • insufficient third party sources to satisfy our needs if we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of heads or media; • third party head or media suppliers may not continue to do business with us or may not do business with us on the same terms and conditions we have previously enjoyed; • claims that our manufacturing of heads or media may infringe certain intellectual property rights of other companies; and • difficulties locating in a timely manner suitable manufacturing equipment for our head or media manufacturing processes and replacement parts for such equipment. If we do not adequately address the challenges related to our head or media manufacturing operations, our ongoing operations could be disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our revenue or profit margins and negatively impacting our operating results. If we are unable to timely and cost-effectively develop heads and media with leading technology and overall quality, our ability to sell our products may be significantly diminished, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. Under our business plan, we are developing and manufacturing a substantial portion of the heads and media used in some of the hard drive products we manufacture. Consequently, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of head and media technologies developed by other manufacturers. Technology transition for head and media designs is critical to increasing our volume production of heads and media. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in timely and cost-effectively developing and manufacturing heads or media for products using future technologies. We also may not effectively transition our head or media design and technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using the technologies necessary to satisfy our customers’ product needs, or we may encounter quality problems with the heads or media we manufacture. In addition, we may not have access to external sources of supply without incurring substantial costs which would negatively impact our business and financial results. Changes in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial results. If product life cycles lengthen, we may need to develop new technologies or programs to reduce our costs on any particular product to maintain competitive pricing for that product. If product life cycles shorten, it may result in an increase in our overall expenses and a decrease in our gross margins, both of which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, shortening of product life cycles also make it more difficult to recover the cost of product development before the product becomes obsolete. Our failure to recover the cost of product development in the future could adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to make the technical innovations necessary to continue to increase areal density, we may fail to remain competitive. New products in the hard drive market typically require higher areal densities than previous product generations, posing formidable technical and manufacturing challenges. Higher areal densities require existing head and media technology to be improved or new technology developed to accommodate more data on a single disk. In addition, our introduction of new products during a technology transition increases the likelihood of unexpected quality concerns. Our failure to bring high quality new products to market on time and at acceptable costs may put us at a competitive disadvantage to companies that achieve these results. 23 Table of Contents A fundamental change in recording technology could result in significant increases in our operating expenses and could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental change in technology, any manufacturer that fails to successfully and timely adjust its designs and processes to accommodate the new technology fails to remain competitive. There are some technologies, such as current-perpendicular-to-plane (“CPP”) and heat assisted magnetic recording (“HAMR”), discrete track recording (“DTR”) and other similar potentially break through technology, that will represent revolutionary recording technologies if they can be implemented by a competitor on a commercially viable basis ahead of the industry, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. As a result of these technology shifts, we could incur substantial costs in developing new technologies, such as heads, media, and tools to remain competitive. If we fail to successfully implement these new technologies, or if we are significantly slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able to offer products with capacities that our customers desire. For example, new recording technology requires changes in the manufacturing process of heads and media, which may cause longer production times and reduce the overall availability of media in the industry. Additionally, the new technology requires a greater degree of integration between heads and media which may lengthen our time of development of hard drives using this technology. Furthermore, as we attempt to develop and implement new technologies, we may become more dependent on suppliers to ensure our access to components that accommodate the new technology. These results would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. The difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost reduction. Storage capacity of the hard drive, as manufactured by us, is determined by the number of disks and each disk’s areal density. Areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk. Generally, the higher the areal density, the more information can be stored on a single platter. Historically, we have been able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through increases in areal density. Increases in areal density mean that the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost. However, because increasing areal density has become more difficult in the hard drive industry, such increases may require increases in component costs, and other opportunities to reduce costs may not continue at historical rates. Additionally, increases in areal density may require us to make further capital expenditures on items such as new testing equipment needed as a result of an increased number of GB per platter. Our inability to achieve cost reductions could adversely affect our operating results. If we do not properly manage the technology transitions of our products, our operating results may be negatively affected. Many of the markets in which we offer our products are undergoing technology transitions. For example, in order to handle higher data transfer rates, the PC and enterprise markets are transitioning from parallel interfaces, such as PATA and SCSI, to serial interfaces, such as SATA and SAS, respectively. We must effectively manage the transition of the features of our products to serial interfaces in order to remain competitive and cost effective. In the PC market, we currently offer PATA and SATA products and must timely and efficiently manage both our manufacture of PATA products through their end of life and our ramp of SATA products and features. If we fail to successfully manage the transition from parallel interfaces to serial interfaces, our operating results may suffer. Our high-volume hard drive and media manufacturing facilities, and the manufacturing facilities of many of our suppliers, are concentrated in Asia, which subjects us to the risk of damage or loss of any of these facilities and localized risks to employees in these locations. Our high-volume hard drive and media manufacturing facilities are in Malaysia and Thailand and the manufacturing facilities of many of our suppliers are in Asia. A condition or event such as political instability, civil unrest or a power outage, or a fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster that adversely affects any of these facilities or our ability to manufacture could limit the total volume of hard drives we are able to manufacture and result in a loss of sales and revenue and harm our operating results. Similarly, a localized health risk affecting our employees or the staff of our suppliers, such as a new pandemic influenza in Asia, could impair the total volume of hard drives that we are able to manufacture. 24 Table of Contents Our head manufacturing operations include a single wafer fabrication facility in California and a single head gimbal assembly facility in Thailand, and our media operations include four facilities in Malaysia, which subjects us to substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at any of these facilities are disrupted. As we have previously discussed in public statements, our business plan presently contemplates that we will design and manufacture a substantial portion of the heads and media required for the hard drives we manufacture. We fabricate wafers in our Fremont, California facility, and the wafers are then sent to our Thailand facility for slider fabrication and wafer slicing and HGA assembly and testing. Additionally, we manufacture the majority of our media and substrates in four facilities in Penang, Johor and Sarawak, Malaysia. A fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster, condition or event such as a power outage that adversely affects any of these facilities would significantly affect supply of our heads or media, and limit our ability to manufacture hard drives which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results. Our operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to optimize the overall quality, time-to-market and time-to-volume of new and established products. To achieve consistent success with our customers, we must balance several key attributes such as time-to-market, time-to-volume, quality, cost, service, price and a broad product portfolio. Our operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to: • maintain overall quality of products in new and established programs; • produce sufficient quantities of products at the capacities our customers demand while managing the integration of new and established technologies; • develop and qualify new products that have changes in overall specifications or features that our customers may require for their business needs; • obtain commitments from our customers to qualify new products, redesigns of current products, or new components in our existing products; • obtain customer qualification of these products on a timely basis by meeting all of our customers’ needs for performance, quality and features; • maintain an adequate supply of components required to manufacture our products; or • maintain the manufacturing capability to quickly change our product mix between different capacities, form factors and spin speeds in response to changes in customers’ product demands. Manufacturing and marketing our products abroad subjects us to numerous risks. We are subject to risks associated with our foreign manufacturing operations and foreign marketing efforts, including: • obtaining requisite U.S. and foreign governmental permits and approvals; • currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions; • political instability and civil unrest; • limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods of price declines; • higher freight rates; • labor problems; • trade restrictions or higher tariffs; • copyright levies or similar fees imposed in European and other countries: • exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations; 25 Table of Contents • increasing labor and overhead costs; and • loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. Terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results. The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and insurance markets and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. Additionally, it is uncertain what impact the reactions to such acts by various governmental agencies and security regulators worldwide will have on shipping costs. Acts of terrorism, either domestically or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability. To the extent this results in disruption or delays of our manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Sudden disruptions to the availability of freight lanes could have an impact on our operations. We ship the majority of our products to our various customers via air freight. The sudden unavailability of air cargo operations used to ship our products would impair our ability to deliver our products in a timely and efficient manner, which could adversely impact our operating results. We also ship a portion of our product via ocean freight, and events or conditions at shipping ports, such as labor difficulties or disputes, could also impact our operating results by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver these products. We are vulnerable to system failures, which could harm our business. We are heavily dependent on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to operate our factories, sell our products, fulfill orders, manage inventory and bill, collect and make payments. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. Our business is also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by third parties as well as employees. Despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our business, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. We may be unable to retain our key staff and skilled employees. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key staff and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. Worldwide competition for skilled employees in the hard drive industry is intense. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key staff or skilled employees who have received equity compensation. If we are unable to retain our existing key staff or skilled employees, or hire and integrate new key staff or skilled employees, or if we fail to implement succession plans for our key staff, our operating results would likely be harmed. The nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk of significant litigation. The hard drive industry has been characterized by significant litigation. This includes litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. We may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. We evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to time. If claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology. Such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly. In addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. We may also be liable for any past infringement. If there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. It could also result in a damage award 26 Table of Contents equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. Any of these results would increase our costs and harm our operating results. Our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors. Our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non-patentable intellectual property such as our process technology. Despite safeguards, to the extent that a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. Also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to patent protection of intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. We rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. However, any of our registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which might harm our operating results. Environmental regulation costs could harm our operating results. We may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products. Such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate. For example, the European Union has enacted the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”) directive, which prohibits the use of certain substances in electronic equipment, and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) directive, which obligates parties that place electrical and electronic equipment onto the market in the EU to put a clearly identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to EU member countries regarding distribution of the equipment, and provide a mechanism to take-back and properly dispose of the equipment. Similar legislation may be enacted in other locations where we manufacture or sell our products. We will need to ensure that we comply with such laws and regulations as they are enacted, and that our component suppliers also timely comply with such laws and regulations. If we fail to timely comply with the legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In connection with our compliance with such environmental laws and regulations, we could incur substantial costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. In addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws, we could be subject to governmental fines and liability to our customers. If we have to make significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws, or if we are subject to significant expenses in connection with a violation of these laws, our financial condition or operating results could suffer. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations may negatively affect our operating results. Because we manufacture our products abroad, our operating costs are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Further fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Thai Baht and of the Malaysian Ringgit may negatively impact our operating results. The Thai Baht is a free floating currency while the Malaysian Ringgit exchange rate policy is one of a managed float. We have attempted to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term, forward contracts. However, these contracts do not cover our full exposure and can be canceled by the issuer if currency controls are put in place. Currently, we hedge the Thai Baht, Malaysian Ringgit, Euro and British Pound Sterling with forward contracts. If the U.S. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated. Conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially U.S. dollar denominated. 27 Table of Contents Increases in our customers’ credit risk could result in credit losses and an increase in our operating costs. Some of our OEM customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as ODMs, that provide manufacturing services to our OEM customers. Because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct OEM customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. Our agreements with our OEM customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. Additionally, as we attempt to expand our OEM and distribution channel sales into emerging economies such as Brazil, Russia, India and China, the customers in these regions may have relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately assess the associated credit risks. Any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. Negative conditions in the credit markets could result in a decrease in sales and lower revenue in the distribution channel. Many of our customers in the distribution channel rely on credit financing in order to purchase our products. If the recent negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers’ access to credit, product orders in the distribution channel may decrease which could result in lower revenue. Inaccurate projections of demand for our product can cause large fluctuations in our quarterly results. We often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter. In addition, our quarterly projections and results may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including: • the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers; • our product mix; • changes in the prices of our products; • manufacturing delays or interruptions; • acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products; • variations in the cost of components for our products; • limited availability of components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; • competition and consolidation in the data storage industry; • seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for PCs often due to technological advances; and • availability and rates of transportation. Rapidly changing conditions in the hard drive industry make it difficult to predict actual results. We have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting. The highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. These changes have impacted our financial results in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Key estimates and assumptions for us include: • price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors; • inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of cost or market value (net realizable value); • reserves for doubtful accounts; • accruals for product returns; • accruals for warranty costs related to product defects; • accruals for litigation and other contingencies; and • liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits. 28 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile. Factors such as the following may significantly affect the market price of our common stock: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; • new products introduced by us or our competitors; • periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry consolidation; • developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; • conditions and trends in the hard drive, computer, data and content management, storage and communication industries; • growth rates that are lower than our previous high growth-rate periods; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts relating specifically to us or the hard drive industry in general; and • macroeconomic conditions that affect the market generally. In addition, general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. These fluctuations often appear to be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. Securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. A number of such suits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and management’s attention. Negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio. Our long-term investments consist of auction-rate securities totaling $28 million as of June 27, 2008. The recent negative conditions in the global credit markets have prevented some investors from liquidating their holdings of auction-rate securities because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities. If the credit market does not improve, auctions for our invested amounts may fail. If an auction fails for securities in which we have invested, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our auction-rate securities at par, should we need or desire to access the funds invested in those securities. In the event we need or desire to access these funds, we will not be able to do so until a future auction on these investments is successful or a buyer is found outside the auction process. If a buyer is found but is unwilling to purchase the investments at par, we may incur a loss. For example, during the year ended June 27, 2008, the market values of some of the auction-rate securities we owned were impacted by the macro-economic credit market conditions and as a result, we recognized $10 million of other-than-temporary losses to mark the remaining investments to estimated market value. Further, rating downgrades of the security issuer or the third-parties insuring such investments may require us to adjust the carrying value of these investments through an additional impairment charge. If our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial results or our stock price may be adversely affected. Our most recent evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of June 27, 2008, in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. We believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place for future periods; however, if our internal control over financial reporting is found to be ineffective, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which may adversely affect our financial results or our stock price. 29 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 