Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K and the information incorporated by reference herein. If any of the events described in the following risk factors occurs, our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors that are described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business Our near-term prospects are substantially dependent on ADCETRIS. If we are unable to successfully commercialize ADCETRIS for the treatment of patients in its approved indications, our ability to generate significant revenue or achieve profitability will be adversely affected. On August 19, 2011, we obtained accelerated approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for ADCETRIS™ (brentuximab vedotin) for two indications: (1) the treatment of patients with Hodgkin lymphoma after failure of autologous stem cell transplant, or ASCT, or after failure of at least two prior multi-agent chemotherapy regimens in patients who are not ASCT candidates, and (2) the treatment of patients with systemic anaplastic large cell lymphoma, or sALCL, after failure of at least one prior multi-agent chemotherapy regimen. There are no data available demonstrating improvement in patient-reported outcomes or survival with ADCETRIS. ADCETRIS is our only product approved for marketing by the FDA and our ability to generate revenue from product sales and achieve profitability is substantially dependent on our ability to successfully commercialize ADCETRIS for the treatment of patients in its two approved indications. We may not be able to successfully commercialize ADCETRIS for a number of reasons, including: • we may not be able to establish or demonstrate in the medical community the safety and efficacy of ADCETRIS and its potential advantages over and side effects compared to existing therapeutics and products currently in clinical development; • physicians may be reluctant to prescribe ADCETRIS until results from our required post-approval studies are available or other long term efficacy and safety data exists; • results from our required post-approval studies may fail to verify the clinical benefit of ADCETRIS in either or both of its approved indications, which could result in the withdrawal of ADCETRIS from the market; • our limited experience in marketing, selling and distributing ADCETRIS; • adverse reimbursement and coverage policies of government and private payers such as Medicare, Medicaid, insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other plan administrators; • the relative price of ADCETRIS as compared to alternative treatment options; • the relatively low incidence and prevalence of patients in ADCETRIS’ two approved indications, including the reliability of our estimates; • changed or increased regulatory restrictions; • additional changes to the label for ADCETRIS, including the boxed warning, that further restrict how we market and sell ADCETRIS, including as a result of data collected from required post-approval studies or as the result of adverse events observed in these or other studies; • we may not have adequate financial or other resources to successfully commercialize ADCETRIS; and • we may not be able to obtain adequate commercial supplies of ADCETRIS to meet demand or at an acceptable cost. 22 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully commercialize ADCETRIS in its two approved indications, our ability to generate revenue from product sales and achieve profitability will be adversely affected and our stock price would likely decline. In December 2009, we entered into an agreement with Millennium to develop and commercialize ADCETRIS, under which we have commercial rights in the United States and its territories and Canada, and Millennium has commercial rights in the rest of the world. The success of this collaboration and the activities of Millennium will significantly impact the potential commercialization of ADCETRIS in countries other than the United States and in Canada, and although Millennium has submitted a Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA, to the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, seeking approval to market ADCETRIS in the European Union, ADCETRIS has not to date been approved for marketing in any jurisdiction other than the United States. We are also planning to develop ADCETRIS for use as a single agent and in combination therapy regimens in a range of hematologic malignancies and solid tumor indications, but there can be no assurance that we and/or Millennium will obtain and maintain the necessary regulatory approvals to market ADCETRIS for any additional indications or to market ADCETRIS at all in any other jurisdictions. For example, we may not be able to successfully develop a companion diagnostic that may be required by regulatory authorities in order to develop ADCETRIS for use in treating hematologic malignancies and solid tumors. Even if we and Millennium receive the required regulatory approvals to market ADCETRIS for any additional indications or in any other jurisdictions, we and Millennium may not be able to successfully commercialize ADCETRIS, including for the reasons set forth above. Our operating results are unpredictable and may fluctuate. If our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our stock could decline. Our operating results are difficult to predict and will likely fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year. Due to the recent approval by the FDA of ADCETRIS in its two indications and the lack of historical sales data, ADCETRIS sales will be difficult to predict from period to period and as a result, you should not rely on ADCETRIS sales results in any period as being indicative of future performance and sales of ADCETRIS may be below the expectation of securities analysts or investors in the future. We believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may be affected by a variety of factors, including: • the level of demand for ADCETRIS; • the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for ADCETRIS is available from government and health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed care programs and other third-party payers; • the timing, cost and level of investment in our sales and marketing efforts to support ADCETRIS sales; • the timing, cost and level of investment in our research and development activities involving ADCETRIS and our product candidates; and • expenditures we will or may incur to conduct required post-approval studies for ADCETRIS and acquire or develop additional technologies, product candidates and products. In addition, from time to time, we enter into collaboration agreements with other companies that include development funding and significant upfront and milestone payments, and we expect that amounts earned from our collaboration agreements will continue to be an important source of our revenues. Accordingly, our revenues will also depend on development funding and the achievement of development and clinical milestones under our existing collaboration and license agreements, including, in particular, our ADCETRIS collaboration with Millennium, as well as entering into new collaboration and license agreements. These upfront and milestone payments may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and any such variance could cause a significant fluctuation in our operating results from one quarter to the next. Further, we measure compensation cost for stock-based awards made to employees at the grant date of the award, based on the fair value of the award, and recognize the cost as an expense over the employee’s requisite service period. As the variables that we use as a basis for valuing these awards change over time, including our underlying stock price, the magnitude of the expense that we must recognize may vary significantly. 23 Table of Contents For these and other reasons, it is difficult for us to accurately forecast future profits or losses. As a result, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps substantially. Reports of adverse events or safety concerns involving ADCETRIS or our product candidates could delay or prevent us from obtaining or maintaining regulatory approval, or could negatively impact sales of ADCETRIS. Reports of adverse events or safety concerns involving ADCETRIS and our product candidates could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of ADCETRIS and our product candidates, including the FDA-required ADCETRIS post-approval confirmatory studies. In addition, reports of adverse events or safety concerns involving ADCETRIS could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying or withdrawing approval of ADCETRIS for any or all indications, including the use of ADCETRIS for the treatment of patients in its two approved indications. We cannot assure you that patients receiving ADCETRIS or any of our product candidates will not experience serious adverse events in the future. Adverse events may also negatively impact the sales of ADCETRIS. We may also be required to further update the ADCETRIS package insert based on reports of adverse events or safety concerns or implement a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, which could adversely affect ADCETRIS’ acceptance in the market, make competition easier or make it more difficult or expensive for us to distribute ADCETRIS. For example in January 2012, we announced that the prescribing information for ADCETRIS had been updated to include the following updated information: (1) a boxed warning related to the risk that JC virus infection resulting in progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, or PML, and death can occur in patients receiving ADCETRIS, (2) a discussion in the PML warning and precaution provision regarding other possible contributing factors to PML such as other prior therapies and underlying disease, symptoms to be aware of and suggested methodologies for diagnosis of PML, and (3) a contraindication warning of the concomitant use of ADCETRIS and bleomycin due to pulmonary toxicity. The target patient population for ADCETRIS’ two approved indications is small, has not been definitively determined and may turn out to be lower than expected, which could adversely affect our ability to achieve profitability in the future. The incidence and prevalence of patients in ADCETRIS’ two approved indications has not been definitively determined, but we believe the number of patients in ADCETRIS’ two approved indications is relatively low. The number of such patients in the United States may turn out to be lower than expected or may not otherwise be amenable to treatment with ADCETRIS, all of which would adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to achieve profitability. Further, initial sales of ADCETRIS may deplete the prevalence pool of patients in the two approved indications more quickly than expected, which would have a negative impact on sales of ADCETRIS in the future and could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to achieve profitability. Even though we have obtained accelerated approval to market ADCETRIS in the United States in two indications, we are subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and review, including post-approval requirements that could result in the withdrawal of ADCETRIS from the market if not met. ADCETRIS was approved for treating patients in two indications under the FDA’s accelerated approval regulations, which allows the FDA to approve products for cancer or other serious or life threatening illnesses based on a surrogate endpoint or on a clinical endpoint other than survival or irreversible morbidity. Under these provisions, we are subject to certain post-approval requirements pursuant to which we have agreed to conduct additional confirmatory phase III trials to verify and describe the clinical benefit of ADCETRIS in its two approved indications. Our failure to conduct these required post-approval studies, or to confirm a clinical benefit during these post-approval studies, could result in the FDA withdrawing approval of ADCETRIS, which would seriously harm our business. In addition, we are subject to extensive ongoing obligations and continued 24 Table of Contents regulatory review from the FDA and other applicable regulatory agencies, such as continued adverse event reporting requirements and the requirement to have our promotional materials pre-cleared by the FDA. There may also be additional FDA post-marketing obligations, all of which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize ADCETRIS in the United States or potentially other jurisdictions. Under the FDA’s accelerated approval regulations, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising and promotion for ADCETRIS are subject to extensive regulatory requirements all of which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize ADCETRIS. We and the manufacturers of ADCETRIS are also required to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, regulations, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Further, regulatory agencies must approve these manufacturing facilities before they can be used to manufacture ADCETRIS, and these facilities are subject to ongoing regulatory inspections. In addition, regulatory agencies subject an approved product, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual review and inspections. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with ADCETRIS, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facilities where ADCETRIS is manufactured, may result in restrictions on the marketing of ADCETRIS, up to and including withdrawal of ADCETRIS from the market. If our manufacturing facilities or those of our suppliers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, such noncompliance could result in regulatory action and additional costs to us. Failure to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: • issuance of Form 483 notices or Warning Letters by the FDA or other regulatory agencies; • imposition of fines and other civil penalties; • criminal prosecutions; • injunctions, suspensions or revocations of regulatory approvals; • suspension of any ongoing clinical trials; • total or partial suspension of manufacturing; • delays in commercialization; • refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or Millennium; • refusals to permit drugs to be imported into or exported from the United States; • restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; and • product recalls or seizures. The policies of the FDA and other regulatory agencies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of ADCETRIS in other indications or further restrict or regulate post-approval activities. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we or Millennium might not be permitted to market ADCETRIS and our business would suffer. We have only very limited experience in commercializing products on our own and we may not be able to effectively commercialize ADCETRIS. Our success in commercializing ADCETRIS will require, among other things, effective sales, marketing, manufacturing, distribution, information systems and pricing strategies, as well as compliance with applicable laws and regulations. We established a sales and marketing organization for the commercial launch of ADCETRIS, but we may not be able to successfully maintain adequate sales and marketing capabilities or scale 25 Table of Contents our sales and marketing capabilities to effectively commercialize ADCETRIS. Although we have hired the number of employees that we believe are required to market ADCETRIS, this number may turn out to be incorrect and we may not be able to effectively commercialize ADCETRIS with our sales force. We also have to compete with other pharmaceutical and life sciences companies to recruit, hire, train and retain sales and marketing personnel, and turnover in our sales force and marketing personnel could negatively affect sales of ADCETRIS. If we are unable to maintain adequate sales and marketing capabilities and successful distribution relationships with logistics companies and wholesalers, we may fail to realize the full sales potential of ADCETRIS. Although we have established relationships with such companies, we generally do not have control over the resources or degree of effort that any of these third parties may devote to ADCETRIS, and if they fail to devote sufficient time and resources to the distribution of ADCETRIS, or if their performance is substandard, this will adversely affect sales of ADCETRIS. The status of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers for newly approved prescription drug products is uncertain and failure to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement could limit our ability to generate revenue. Our ability to successfully commercialize ADCETRIS for its approved indications or for other future indications will depend, in part, on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for ADCETRIS is available from government and health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed care programs and other third-party payers. Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement of newly approved prescription drug products. Healthcare providers and third-party payers use coding systems to identify diagnoses, procedures, services, drugs, pharmaceutical devices, equipment and other health-related items and services. Proper coding is an integral component to receiving appropriate reimbursement for the administration of ADCETRIS and related services. The majority of payers use nationally recognized code sets to report medical conditions, services and drugs. Although we are in the process of applying for permanent reimbursement codes for ADCETRIS, healthcare providers prescribing ADCETRIS will initially be required to submit claims for reimbursement using temporary miscellaneous codes, which may result in payment delays or incorrect payment levels. We cannot predict whether our customers will receive adequate reimbursement for ADCETRIS, nor can we predict when ADCETRIS will receive permanent reimbursement codes in the future. Government and other third-party payers increasingly are attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs and by refusing, in some cases, to provide coverage for uses of approved products for indications for which the FDA has not granted approval. Third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for ADCETRIS. If government and other third-party payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for ADCETRIS, market acceptance of ADCETRIS would be adversely affected. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than ADCETRIS, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. Even though we have obtained approval in the United Stated to market ADCETRIS in two indications, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than ADCETRIS for its two approved indications or any other potential indication. Our competitors include large, fully-integrated pharmaceutical companies and more established biotechnology companies, both of which have significant resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing. Academic institutions, government agencies, and other public and private research organizations conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and marketing. It is possible that competitors will succeed in developing technologies that are more effective than those used in ADCETRIS and in our product candidates or being developed by us, or that would render our technology obsolete or noncompetitive. 26 Table of Contents We are subject to various state and federal healthcare related laws and regulations that may impact the commercialization of ADCETRIS or our product candidates and could subject us to significant fines and penalties. Our operations may be directly or indirectly subject to various state and federal healthcare laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the federal False Claims Act and HIPAA/HITECH. These laws may impact, among other things, the sales, marketing and education programs for ADCETRIS or any of our product candidates that may be approved for commercial sale. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willingly soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Several courts have interpreted the statute’s intent requirement to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal healthcare covered business, the statute has been violated. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. Penalties for violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Many states have also adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any source, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The federal False Claims Act prohibits persons from knowingly filing, or causing to be filed, a false claim to, or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from the federal government. Suits filed under the False Claims Act, known as “qui tam” actions, can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government and such individuals, commonly known as “whistleblowers,” may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. The filing of qui tam actions has caused a number of pharmaceutical, medical device and other healthcare companies to have to defend a False Claims Act action. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties for each separate false claim. Various states have also enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act. The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and making false statements relating to healthcare matters and was amended by the Health Information Technology and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, and its implementing regulations, which impose certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. In order to comply with these laws, we have implemented a comprehensive compliance program to actively identify, prevent and mitigate risk through the implementation of compliance policies and systems and by promoting a culture of compliance. Although we take our obligation to maintain our compliance with these various laws and regulations seriously and our compliance program is designed to prevent the violation of these laws and regulations, if we are found to be in violation of any of the laws and regulations described above or other applicable state and federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government healthcare reimbursement programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have a history of net losses. We expect to continue to incur net losses and may not achieve profitability for some time, if at all. We have incurred substantial net losses in each of our years of operation. We have incurred these losses principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs and from our selling, general and administrative expenses. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on research and development, 27 Table of Contents including amounts for conducting required post-approval and other clinical trials of, and seeking additional regulatory approvals for, ADCETRIS as well as commercializing ADCETRIS for the treatment of patients in its two approved indications. In addition, we expect to make substantial expenditures to further develop and potentially commercialize our product candidates. Although we have recently begun to commercialize ADCETRIS and we continue to earn amounts under our collaboration agreements, our revenue and profit potential is unproven and our limited operating history makes our future operating results difficult to predict. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the market value of our common stock will likely decline. Our current product candidates are at an early stage of development, and it is possible that none of these product candidates will ever become commercial products. Our current product candidates are in relatively early stages of development. These product candidates will require significant further development, financial resources and personnel to obtain regulatory approval and develop into commercially viable products, if at all. Currently, we have three clinical-stage programs, SGN-75, ASG-5ME and ASG-22ME, and several preclinical product candidates, including SGN-CD19A. If a product candidate fails at any stage of development or we otherwise determine to discontinue development of that product candidate, we will not have the anticipated revenues from that product candidate to fund our operations, and we may not receive any return on our investment in that product candidate. In this regard, during 2011 we announced that we had discontinued the development of dacetuzumab and SGN-70 to focus our efforts on our pipeline of ADC product candidates, and we previously discontinued our lintuzumab development program following negative clinical trial results. As a result of the uncertain and time-consuming clinical development and regulatory approval process, we may not successfully develop any of our product candidates and it is possible that none of our current product candidates will ever become commercial products. In addition, we expect that much of our effort and many of our expenditures over the next few years will be devoted to required post-approval studies and commitments and commercialization activities associated with ADCETRIS, which may restrict or delay our ability to develop our clinical and preclinical product candidates or develop ADCETRIS for additional indications. Our ability to commercialize any of our product candidates depends on first receiving required regulatory approvals, and it is possible that we may never receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. Even if a product candidate receives regulatory approval, the resulting product may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers and the medical community. Even though ADCETRIS has received required regulatory approval in the United States, commercial success for ADCETRIS outside of the United States and Canada will depend on Millennium’s commercialization efforts. The degree of commercial success of any of our product candidates that may be approved for commercial sale will depend on a number of factors, including: • establishment and demonstration of clinical efficacy and safety; • cost-effectiveness of the product; • the product’s potential advantage over alternative treatment methods; • whether the product can be produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; and • marketing and distribution support for the product. If we and/or our collaborators are unable to develop, obtain regulatory approval for, and commercialize any of our product candidates, if development is delayed or if sales revenue from any product candidate that receives marketing approval is insufficient, we may never reach sustained profitability. 28 Table of Contents Our clinical trials may fail to demonstrate acceptable levels of safety and efficacy of our product candidates, which could prevent or significantly delay their regulatory approval. To obtain the requisite regulatory approvals to market and sell any of our product candidates or to market and sell ADCETRIS for additional indications, we must demonstrate, through extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials, that the product or product candidate is safe and effective in humans. Ongoing and future clinical trials of our product candidates may not show sufficient safety or efficacy to obtain requisite regulatory approvals. Moreover, we still only have limited data from our phase I trials of SGN-75, ASG-5ME and ASG-22ME. Phase I and phase II clinical trials generally are not designed to test the efficacy of a product candidate but rather are designed to test safety, to study pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics and to understand the product candidate’s side effects at various doses and dosing schedules. Furthermore, success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that later large-scale trials will be successful nor does it predict final results. Acceptable results in early trials may not be repeated in later trials. The pivotal trials of ADCETRIS required the enrollment of approximately 160 patients, and we believe that any clinical trial designed to test the efficacy of SGN-75, ASG-5ME, ASG-22ME, or our future product candidates, whether phase II or phase III, will likely involve a larger number of patients to achieve statistical significance, will be expensive and will take a substantial amount of time to complete. As a result, we may conduct lengthy and expensive clinical trials of our product candidates, only to learn that the product candidate is not an effective treatment or is not superior to existing approved therapies, or has an unacceptable safety profile, which could prevent or significantly delay regulatory approval for such product candidate. Clinical trials are expensive and time consuming, may take longer than we expect or may not be completed at all, and their outcome is uncertain. We are currently conducting multiple clinical trials for ADCETRIS and our other clinical product candidates, and we plan to commence additional trials of ADCETRIS and our product candidates in the future. Each of our clinical trials requires the investment of substantial expense and time and the timing of the commencement, continuation and completion of these clinical trials may be subject to significant delays relating to various causes, including scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions, difficulties in identifying and enrolling patients who meet trial eligibility criteria, failure of patients to complete the clinical trial, delay or failure to obtain IRB approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site, and shortages of available drug supply. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the existence of competing clinical trials and the availability of alternative or new treatments. In addition, many of our future and ongoing ADCETRIS clinical trials are being or will be coordinated with Millennium, which may delay the commencement or affect the continuation or completion of these trials. We have experienced enrollment-related delays in certain of our current and previous clinical trials and will likely experience similar delays in our future trials, particularly as we attempt to significantly increase patient size required for phase III studies of ADCETRIS that we are required to conduct to satisfy the FDA’s post-approval requirements. We depend on medical institutions and clinical research organizations, or CROs, to conduct some of our clinical trials in compliance with Good Clinical Practice, or GCP, and to the extent they fail to enroll patients for our clinical trials, fail to conduct our trials in accordance with GCP, or are delayed for a significant time in achieving full enrollment, we may be affected by increased costs, program delays or both, which may harm our business. In addition, we conduct clinical trials in foreign countries which may subject us to further delays and expenses as a result of increased drug shipment costs, additional regulatory requirements and the engagement of foreign CROs, as well as expose us to risks associated with less experienced clinical investigators who are unknown to the FDA, different standards of medical care, and foreign currency transactions insofar as changes in the relative value of the United States dollar to the foreign currency where the trial is being conducted may impact our actual costs. 29 Table of Contents Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with FDA or other applicable foreign government guidelines and are subject to oversight by the FDA, other foreign governmental agencies and IRBs at the medical institutions where the clinical trials are conducted. In addition, clinical trials must be conducted with supplies of our product candidates produced under cGMP and other requirements in foreign countries, and may require large numbers of test patients. We, the FDA or other foreign governmental agencies could delay, suspend or halt our clinical trials of ADCETRIS or any of our product candidates for numerous reasons, including: • deficiencies in the conduct of the clinical trial, including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements, GCP or clinical protocols; • deficiencies in the clinical trial operations or trial sites resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • ADCETRIS or the product candidate may have unforeseen adverse side effects, including fatalities, or a determination may be made that a clinical trial presents unacceptable health risks; • the time required to determine whether ADCETRIS or the product candidate is effective may be longer than expected; • fatalities or other adverse events arising during a clinical trial due to medical problems that may not be related to clinical trial treatments; • ADCETRIS or the product candidate may not appear to be more effective than current therapies; • the quality or stability of ADCETRIS or the product candidate may fall below acceptable standards; • our inability to produce or obtain sufficient quantities of ADCETRIS or the product candidate to complete the trials; • our inability to reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; • our inability to obtain IRB approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial, including the incurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional trials and studies and increased expenses associated with the services of our CROs and other third parties; • our inability to recruit and enroll patients to participate in clinical trials for reasons including competition from other clinical trial programs for the same or similar indications; or • our inability to retain patients who have initiated a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to side effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy or personal issues, or who are lost to further follow-up. In addition, we may experience significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials, such as unexpected adverse events that occur when our product candidates are combined with other therapies, which often occur in later-stage clinical trials. For example, we recently announced that, based on a phase I trial combining ADCETRIS with ABVD chemotherapy, ADCETRIS should not be combined with bleomycin, one of the drugs in ABVD chemotherapy, due to increased incidence of pulmonary toxicity in the combination arm of the trial. The FDA has since approved changes to the ADCETRIS label to add a contraindication warning relating to the concomitant use of ADCETRIS and bleomycin due to pulmonary toxicity. In addition, clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events, including patient fatalities that may be attributable to ADCETRIS or our product candidates, during a clinical trial could cause it to be redone or terminated or negatively affect our ability to market ADCETRIS or expand into other indications. Further, some of our clinical trials may be overseen by an independent data monitoring committee, or IDMC, and an IDMC may determine to delay or suspend one or more of these trials due to safety or futility findings based on events occurring during a clinical trial. 30 Table of Contents In some circumstances we rely on collaborators to assist in the research and development of ADCETRIS and our product candidates and, in other situations, to utilize our ADC technology. If we are not able to locate suitable collaborators or if our collaborators do not perform as expected, it may affect our ability to commercialize ADCETRIS and our product candidates and/or generate revenues through technology licensing. We have established and intend to continue to establish collaborations with third parties to develop and market some of our current and future product candidates. For example, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Millennium in December 2009 that granted Millennium rights to develop and commercialize ADCETRIS outside of the United States and Canada. We also have ADC collaborations with Abbott, Bayer, Celldex, Daiichi Sankyo, GSK, Genentech, Millennium, Pfizer and Progenics, and ADC co-development agreements with Agensys, Genmab, and Oxford BioTherapeutics. Under certain conditions, our collaborators may terminate their agreements with us and discontinue use of our technologies. For example, in December 2009, Genentech notified us that it had elected to terminate our collaboration agreement for dacetuzumab. If we had decided to continue the development of dacetuzumab, we would have been responsible for funding any further dacetuzumab development and clinical trial activities. In addition, we cannot control the amount and timing of resources our collaborators may devote to products incorporating our technology. Moreover, our relationships with our collaborators divert significant time and effort of our scientific staff and management team and require effective allocation of our resources to multiple internal and collaborative projects. Our collaborators may separately pursue competing products, therapeutic approaches or technologies to develop treatments for the diseases targeted by us or our collaborators. Even if our collaborators continue their contributions to the collaborative arrangements, they may nevertheless determine not to actively pursue the development or commercialization of any resulting products. Our collaborators may fail to perform their obligations under the collaboration agreements or may be slow in performing their obligations. If any of our collaborators terminate or breach our agreements with them, or otherwise fail to complete their obligations in a timely manner, it may have a detrimental effect on our financial position by reducing or eliminating the potential for us to receive technology access and license fees, milestones and royalties, reimbursement of development costs, as well as possibly requiring us to devote additional efforts and incur costs associated with pursuing internal development of product candidates. In particular, if Millennium were to terminate the ADCETRIS collaboration, we would not receive milestone payments, co-funded development payments or royalties for the sale of ADCETRIS outside the United States and Canada. As a result of such termination, we may have to engage another collaborator to complete the ADCETRIS development process and to commercialize ADCETRIS outside the United States and Canada, or to complete the development process and undertake commercializing ADCETRIS outside the United States and Canada ourselves, either of which could significantly delay the continued development and commercialization of ADCETRIS and increase our costs. In turn, this could significantly harm our financial position, adversely affect our stock price and require us to incur all the costs of developing and commercializing ADCETRIS, which are now being co-funded by Millennium. Furthermore, if our collaborators do not prioritize and commit substantial resources to programs associated with our product candidates, we may be unable to commercialize our product candidates, which would limit our ability to generate revenue and become profitable. In the future, we may not be able to locate third-party collaborators to develop and market our product candidates and we may lack the capital and resources necessary to develop all our product candidates alone. Healthcare law and policy changes, based on recently enacted legislation, may have a material adverse effect on us. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or collectively, PPACA, became law in the U.S. PPACA substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers and significantly affects the pharmaceutical industry. Among the provisions of PPACA of greatest importance to the pharmaceutical industry are the following: • an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs, beginning in 2011; 31 Table of Contents • an increase in the rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, retroactive to January 1, 2010, to 23.1% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for branded and generic drugs, respectively; • a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D, beginning in 2011; • extension of manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations, effective March 23, 2010; • expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals beginning in April 2010 and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the Federal Poverty Level beginning in 2014, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability; • expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program, effective in January 2010; • new requirements to report certain financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals, including reporting any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, effective March 30, 2013, and reporting any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year; • a licensure framework for follow-on biologic products; and • a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research. The United States Supreme Court has accepted petitions to hear a constitutional challenge to the PPACA in 2012. If the Supreme Court rules that the PPACA is unconstitutional, we may need to adjust to the new competitive environment, and new legislation could later become law that could adversely affect the pharmaceutical industry. We anticipate that the PPACA, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and an additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product, and could seriously harm our business. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payers. To date, we have depended on a small number of collaborators for most of our revenue. The loss of any one of these collaborators or our inability to generate sufficient sales revenue could result in a substantial decline in our revenue. We have collaborations with a limited number of companies. To date, almost all of our revenue has resulted from payments made under agreements with our corporate collaborators, and although we have begun commercializing ADCETRIS, we expect that substantial amounts of revenue will continue to come from corporate collaborations. Even though ADCETRIS received regulatory approval in the United States, our revenues will still depend in part on Millennium’s ability and willingness to market the approved product outside of the United States and Canada. The loss of our collaborators, especially Millennium, or the failure of our collaborators to perform their obligations under their agreements with us, including paying license or technology fees, milestone payments, royalties or reimbursements, could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Payments under our existing and future collaboration agreements are also subject to significant fluctuations in both timing and amount, which could cause our revenue to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors and cause a decrease in our stock price. 32 Table of Contents We are dependent upon a small number of distributors for a significant portion of our net sales, and the loss of, or significant reduction or cancellation in sales to, any one of these distributors could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. In the United States, we sell ADCETRIS through a limited number of pharmaceutical distributors. Health care providers order ADCETRIS through these distributors. We receive orders from distributors and ship product directly to the health care provider. We do not promote ADCETRIS to these distributors and they do not set or determine demand for ADCETRIS; however, our ability to successfully commercialize ADCETRIS will depend, in part, on the performance of these distributors. Although we believe we can find alternative distributors on a relatively short notice, the loss of a major distributor could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We currently rely on third-party manufacturers and other third parties for production of our drug products and our dependence on these manufacturers may impair the continued development and commercialization of ADCETRIS and the continued development of our product candidates. We do not currently have the internal ability to manufacture the drug products that we sell or need to conduct our clinical trials and we rely upon a limited number of manufacturers to supply such drug products. For the monoclonal antibody used in ADCETRIS, we have contracted with Abbott Laboratories for clinical and commercial supplies and with Piramal Healthcare to perform conjugation of our drug-linker to the antibody used in ADCETRIS, and we have also entered into a manufacturing and supply agreement with Pierre Fabre Medicament Production, S.A.S. for the cGMP fill/finish manufacture of commercial quantities of ADCETRIS. For ADCETRIS and other ADCs, several contract manufacturers, including SAFC, supply us with drug-linker and other contract manufacturers, including Piramal, perform conjugation of the drug-linker to the antibody. For clinical supply of our product candidates, we have contracted with several suppliers, including Abbott Laboratories, AMRI, Baxter, Lonza Sales AG, Laureate Pharma, and SAFC. In addition, we rely on other third parties to perform additional steps in the manufacturing process, including shipping and storage of ADCETRIS and our product candidates. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to rely on contract manufacturers and other third parties to produce, vial and store sufficient quantities of ADCETRIS and our product candidates for use in our clinical trials and for commercial sale. If our contract manufacturers or other third parties fail to deliver ADCETRIS or our product candidates for clinical use or sale on a timely basis, with sufficient quality, and at commercially reasonable prices, and we fail to find replacement manufacturers or to develop our own manufacturing capabilities, we may be required to delay or suspend clinical trials or otherwise discontinue development, production and sale of ADCETRIS or our product candidates. In addition, we depend on outside vendors for the supply of raw materials used to produce ADCETRIS and our product candidates. If the third-party suppliers were to cease production or otherwise fail to supply us with quality raw materials and we were unable to contract on acceptable terms for these raw materials with alternative suppliers, our ability to have ADCETRIS and our product candidates manufactured to meet commercial and clinical requirements would be adversely affected. Although we have entered into agreements necessary for our commercial scale supply chain for ADCETRIS, we may not be able to maintain sufficient commercial manufacturing arrangements on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, we have committed to provide Millennium with their needs of ADCETRIS for a limited period of time, which may require us to arrange for additional manufacturing supply. Securing commercial quantities of ADCETRIS from contract manufacturers has and will continue to require us to commit significant capital and resources. We may also be required to enter into long-term manufacturing agreements that contain exclusivity provisions and/or substantial termination penalties. In addition, contract manufacturers have a limited number of facilities in which ADCETRIS and our product candidates can be produced and any interruption of the operation of those facilities due to events such as equipment malfunction or failure or damage to the facility by natural disasters or as the result of regulatory actions could result in the cancellation of shipments, loss of product in the manufacturing process, a shortfall in ADCETRIS or our product candidates, or the inability to sell our products in the U.S. or abroad. 33 Table of Contents Our contract manufacturers are required to produce ADCETRIS and our clinical and commercial product candidates under cGMP in order to meet acceptable standards for use in our clinical trials and for commercial sale, as applicable. If such standards change, the ability of contract manufacturers to produce ADCETRIS and our product candidates on the schedule we require for our clinical trials or to meet commercial requirements may be affected. In addition, contract manufacturers may not perform their obligations under their agreements with us or may discontinue their business before the time required by us to successfully produce clinical and commercial supplies of ADCETRIS and our product candidates. We and our contract manufacturers are subject to pre-approval inspections and periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign authorities to ensure strict compliance with cGMP and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over a third-party manufacturer’s compliance with these regulations and standards. Any difficulties or delays in our contractors’ manufacturing and supply of ADCETRIS and our product candidates or any failure of our contractors to maintain compliance with the applicable regulations and standards could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue, make us postpone or cancel clinical trials, prevent or delay regulatory approval by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign authorities, prevent the import and/or export of ADCETRIS and our product candidates, or cause ADCETRIS and any of our product candidates that may in the future be approved for commercial sale to be recalled or withdrawn. The FDA requires that we demonstrate structural and functional comparability between the same product or product candidates manufactured by different organizations. Because we have used and intend to use multiple sources to manufacture ADCETRIS and many of our product candidates, we will need to conduct comparability studies to assess whether manufacturing changes have affected the product safety, identity, purity or potency of any recently manufactured product or product candidate compared to the product or product candidate used in prior clinical trials. If we are unable to demonstrate comparability, the FDA could require us to conduct additional clinical trials, which would be expensive and may significantly delay or impede our clinical progress and the commercialization of ADCETRIS or such product candidates. Similarly, if we believe there may be comparability issues with ADCETRIS or any one of our product candidates, we may postpone or suspend manufacture of ADCETRIS or the product candidate to conduct further process development of ADCETRIS or such product candidate in order to alleviate such product comparability concerns, which may significantly delay the clinical progress of such product candidate, increase its manufacturing costs or result in insufficient commercial supply. We rely on third parties to provide services in connection with our preclinical and clinical development programs. The inadequate performance by or loss of any of these service providers could affect our product candidate development. Several third parties provide services in connection with our preclinical and clinical development programs, including in vitro and in vivo studies, assay and reagent development, immunohistochemistry, toxicology, pharmacokinetics and other outsourced activities. If these service providers do not adequately perform the services for which we have contracted or cease to continue operations and we are not able to quickly find a replacement provider or we lose information or items associated with ADCETRIS or our product candidates, our development programs may be delayed. Any failures or setbacks in our ADC development program would negatively affect our business and financial position. ADCETRIS and our SGN-75, ASG-5ME, ASG-22ME and SGN-CD19A product candidates are based on our ADC technology, which utilizes proprietary stable linkers and potent cell-killing synthetic drugs. Our ADC technology is also the basis of our collaborations with Abbott, Agensys, Bayer, Celldex, Daiichi Sankyo, Genentech, Genmab, GSK, Millennium, Pfizer and Progenics, and our co-development agreements with Agensys, Genmab, and OBT. Although ADCETRIS has received marketing approval in the United States, ADCETRIS is our first and only ADC product that has been approved for commercial sale in any jurisdiction. Any failures or setbacks in our ADC development program, including adverse effects resulting from the use of 34 Table of Contents this technology in human clinical trials, could have a detrimental impact on the continued commercialization of ADCETRIS and our internal product candidate pipeline, as well as our ability to maintain and/or enter into new corporate collaborations regarding our ADC technology, which would negatively affect our business and financial position. We may need to raise significant amounts of additional capital that may not be available to us. We expect to make additional capital outlays and to increase operating expenditures over the next several years as we hire additional employees and support our preclinical development, manufacturing and clinical trial activities, as well as commercialize ADCETRIS and position our other product candidates for potential regulatory approval and commercial sale. Although some of these expenditures related to ADCETRIS are expected to be shared with Millennium, and we expect to offset some of these costs with sales proceeds of ADCETRIS, we may need to raise significant amounts of additional capital. We may seek additional funding through public or private financings, including equity financings, and through other means, such as collaborations and license agreements. However, the global credit and financial markets continue to experience uncertainty, which, along with current economic conditions, may make it more difficult for us to raise equity and debt financing when we need it. As a result of these and other factors, we do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or that, if available, we will obtain financing on terms favorable to us or our stockholders. If adequate funds are not available to us when we need them, we will be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs, which may adversely affect our business and operations. Our future capital requirements will depend upon a number of factors, including: • the level of sales and market acceptance of ADCETRIS; • the rate of progress and cost of the confirmatory studies that we are required to conduct as a condition to the FDA’s accelerated approval of ADCETRIS; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals of ADCETRIS in other countries and in additional indications, including the preparation for additional commercialization in these countries and indications; • the size, complexity, timing, and number of our clinical programs; • our receipt of milestone-based payments or other revenue from our collaborations or license arrangements; • the cost of establishing and maintaining clinical and commercial supplies of ADCETRIS, our product candidates and any future products that we and/or our collaborators may develop; • progress with clinical trials; • the costs associated with acquisitions or licenses of additional products, including licenses we may need to commercialize our products; • the terms and timing of any future collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish; • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; • the potential costs associated with state and federal taxes; • the timing and cost of milestone payment obligations as our product candidates progress towards commercialization; and • competing technological and market developments. In addition, changes in our business may occur that would consume available capital resources sooner than we expect. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish some rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. 35 Table of Contents We rely on license agreements for certain aspects of ADCETRIS, our product candidates and our ADC technology. Failure to maintain these license agreements or to secure any required new licenses could prevent us from developing or commercializing ADCETRIS, our product candidates and our ADC technology. We have entered into agreements with third-party commercial and academic institutions to license technology for use in ADCETRIS, our product candidates and our ADC technology. Currently, we have license agreements with Bristol-Myers Squibb, CLB-Research and Development, and the University of Miami, among others. Some of these license agreements contain diligence and milestone-based termination provisions, in which case our failure to meet any agreed upon diligence requirements or milestones may allow the licensor to terminate the agreement. Many of our license agreements grant us exclusive licenses to the underlying technologies. If our licensors terminate our license agreements or if we are unable to maintain the exclusivity of our exclusive license agreements, we may be unable to continue to develop and commercialize ADCETRIS or our product candidates. In addition, continued development and commercialization of ADCETRIS and continued development of our product candidates will likely require us to secure licenses to additional technologies. We may not be able to secure these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if we fail to sustain and further build our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to commercialize ADCETRIS and our product candidates, and competitors may be able to develop competing therapies. Our success depends, in part, on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and successfully enforcing these patents and defending them against third-party challenges in the United States and other countries. We own multiple U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications for our technologies. We also have rights to issued U.S. patents, patent applications, and their foreign counterparts, relating to our monoclonal antibody, linker and drug-based technologies. Our rights to these patents and patent applications are derived in part from worldwide licenses from the University of Miami and Bristol-Myers Squibb, among others. In addition, we have licensed our U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications to third parties. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. For example, on September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to United States patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The United States Patent Office is currently developing regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act will not become effective until one year or 18 months after its enactment. Accordingly, it is too early to tell what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The standards that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and foreign patent offices use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. Consequently, our pending patent applications may not be allowed and, if allowed, may not contain the type and extent of patent claims that will be adequate to conduct our business as planned. Additionally, any issued patents we currently own or obtain in the future may not contain claims that will permit us to stop competitors from using similar technology. Similarly, the standards that courts use to interpret patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and may evolve, particularly as new technologies develop. As a result, the protection, if any, given by our patents if we attempt to enforce them or if they are challenged in court is uncertain. We rely on trade secrets and other proprietary information where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets and other proprietary information are difficult to protect. We have taken measures to protect our unpatented trade secrets and know-how, including the use of confidentiality and assignment of inventions agreements with our employees, consultants and certain contractors. It is possible, 36 Table of Contents however, that these persons may breach the agreements or that our competitors may independently develop or otherwise discover our trade secrets or other proprietary information. Our research collaborators may publish confidential data or other restricted information to which we have rights. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information in connection with our collaborations, then our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information may be impaired. We may incur substantial costs and lose important rights or may not be able to continue to commercialize ADCETRIS or any product candidates that are approved for commercial sale as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, and we may be required to obtain patent and other intellectual property rights from others. We may face potential lawsuits by companies alleging infringement of their intellectual property. Because patent applications can take a few years to publish, there may be currently pending applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that adversely affect the continued commercialization of ADCETRIS and the commercial development of our product candidates. In addition, we are monitoring the progress of multiple pending patent applications of other companies that, if granted, may require us to license or challenge their enforceability in order to continue commercializing ADCETRIS or any of our other product candidates that may be approved for commercial sale. We are from time to time involved in the defense and enforcement of our patent or other intellectual property rights in a court of law, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office interference or reexamination proceeding, foreign opposition proceeding or related legal and administrative proceeding in the United States and elsewhere. For example, we are currently involved in a pending patent opposition proceeding against our European patent, EP Patent No. 1347730, which covers the use of certain CD30 antibodies and conjugates, including in ADCETRIS, for the treatment of Hodgkin lymphoma. These proceedings are costly and time consuming. Successful challenges to our patent or other intellectual property rights through these proceedings could result in a loss of rights in the relevant jurisdiction and may allow third parties to use our proprietary technologies without a license from us or our collaborators, which may also result in loss of future royalty payments. For example, the possible invalidation of our European patent or amendment of its granted claims could adversely affect our ability to restrict third party products from competing with ADCETRIS, if approved for commercial sale in the European Union. Furthermore, if such challenges to our rights are not resolved promptly in our favor, our existing business relationships may be jeopardized and we could be delayed or prevented from entering into new collaborations or from commercializing potential products, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, we may challenge the patent or other intellectual property rights of third parties and if we are unsuccessful in actions we bring against the rights of such parties, through litigation or otherwise, and it is determined that we infringe the intellectual property rights of such parties, we may be prevented from commercializing potential products in the relevant jurisdiction, or may be required to obtain licenses to those rights or develop or obtain alternative technologies, any of which could harm our business. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, our future growth and ability to compete would suffer. We are highly dependent on the efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management. Additionally, we have scientific personnel with significant and unique expertise in monoclonal antibodies, ADCs and related technologies. The loss of the services of any one of the principal members of our managerial or scientific staff may prevent us from achieving our business objectives. In addition, the competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology field is intense, and our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled scientific, technical and managerial employees. In order to commercialize our products successfully, we have been required to expand our workforce, particularly in the areas of manufacturing, clinical trials management, regulatory affairs, business development, 37 Table of Contents sales and marketing. These activities required the addition of new personnel, including sales and marketing management, and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel. We continue to face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as academic and other research institutions. To the extent we are not able to retain these individuals on favorable terms or attract any additional personnel that may be required, our business may be harmed. We face intense competition and rapid technological change, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing competing products before or more successfully than we do. With respect to ADCETRIS, there are currently no FDA-approved drugs other than ADCETRIS for the treatment of relapsed or refractory Hodgkin lymphoma or specifically indicated for relapsed or refractory sALCL; however, Celgene’s Istodax and Allos Therapeutics’ Folotyn are both approved for relapsed or refractory PTCL and we are aware of multiple investigational agents that are currently being studied, including Pfizer’s crizotinib and Millennium’s alistertib, which, if successful, may compete with ADCETRIS in the future. In addition, there are many existing approaches used in the treatment of patients in ADCETRIS’ two approved indications, including ASCT, combination chemotherapy, clinical trials with experimental agents and single agent regimens, which represent competition for ADCETRIS. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. We are aware of many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are actively engaged in research and development in areas related to antibody therapy or that are otherwise developing various approaches to cancer and autoimmune disease therapy. Some of these competitors have successfully commercialized antibody products or are developing or testing product candidates that do or may in the future compete directly with our product candidates. For example, we believe that companies including Allos Therapeutics, Amgen, Aventis, Bayer, Biogen IDEC, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Celgene, Cephalon, Eisai, Genentech, GSK, Genzyme, Gilead, ImmunoGen, Merck, Millennium, Micromet, Novartis, Pfizer, Pharmacyclics and Sanofi-Aventis are developing and/or marketing products or technologies that may compete with ours, and some of these companies, including Bristol-Myers Squibb, ImmunoGen and Pfizer, have ADC technology. Other potential competitors include large, fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and more established biotechnology companies that have significant resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing. Also, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and marketing. It is possible that these competitors will succeed in developing technologies that are more effective than our product candidates or that would render our technology obsolete or noncompetitive. Our competitors may, among other things: • develop safer or more effective products; • implement more effective approaches to sales and marketing; • develop less costly products; • obtain quicker regulatory approval; • have access to more manufacturing capacity; • form more advantageous strategic alliances; or • establish superior proprietary positions. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter our market and scientific developments surrounding other cancer therapies continue to accelerate. Product liability and product recalls could harm our business, and we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance to protect us against product liability losses. The current and future use of ADCETRIS and our product candidates by us and our corporate collaborators in clinical trials, and the sale of ADCETRIS and any approved products in the future, expose us to product 38 Table of Contents liability claims. These claims might be made directly by consumers or healthcare providers or indirectly by pharmaceutical companies, our corporate collaborators or others selling such products. We may experience financial losses in the future due to product liability claims. We have obtained limited general commercial liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials. We expanded our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products upon approval of ADCETRIS. However, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against all losses. If a successful product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, our assets may not be sufficient to cover such claims and our business operations could be impaired. Product recalls may be issued at our discretion, or at the discretion of government agencies and other entities that have regulatory authority for pharmaceutical sales. Any recall of ADCETRIS could materially adversely affect our business by rendering us unable to sell ADCETRIS for some time and by adversely affecting our reputation. Our operations involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health and safety controls and regulations. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials, and we spend considerable time complying with such laws and regulations. Our business activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and although we take precautions to prevent accidental contamination or injury from these materials, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of using these materials. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of our facilities are damaged or our clinical, research and development or other business processes interrupted, our business could be seriously harmed. We conduct our business in a limited number of facilities in a single geographical location in Bothell, Washington. Damage or extended periods of interruption to our corporate, development or research facilities due to fire, natural disaster, power loss, communications failure, unauthorized entry or other events could cause us to cease or delay development of some or all of our product candidates or interrupt the sales process for ADCETRIS. Although we maintain property damage and business interruption insurance coverage on these facilities, our insurance might not cover all losses under such circumstances and our business may be seriously harmed by such delays and interruption. If we experience a significant disruption in our information technology systems our business could be adversely affected. We rely on information technology systems to keep financial records, maintain laboratory and corporate records, communicate with staff and external parties and operate other critical functions. If we were to experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems, it could result in the delay of development of our product candidates or the coordination of our sales activities, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, in order to maximize our information technology efficiency, we have physically consolidated our primary corporate data and computer operations. This concentration, however, exposes us to a greater risk of disruption to our internal information technology systems. Although we maintain offsite back-ups of our data, if operations at our facilities were disrupted, it would likely cause a material disruption in our business. We may engage in future acquisitions that increase our capital requirements, dilute our stockholders, cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities and subject us to other risks. We actively evaluate various strategic transactions on an ongoing basis, including licensing or acquiring complementary products, technologies or businesses. Any potential acquisitions may entail numerous risks, including increased operating expenses and cash requirements, assimilation of operations and products, retention of key employees, diversion of our management’s attention and uncertainties in our ability to maintain key 39 Table of Contents business relationships of the acquired entities. In addition, if we undertake acquisitions, we may issue dilutive securities, assume or incur debt obligations, incur large one-time expenses and acquire intangible assets that could result in significant future amortization expense. Moreover, we may not be able to locate suitable acquisition opportunities and this inability could impair our ability to grow or obtain access to technology or products that may be important to the development of our business. Legislative actions and potential new accounting pronouncements are likely to impact our future financial position or results of operations. Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse, unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our financial position or results of operations. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred with frequency in the past and are expected to occur again in the future and as a result we may be required to make changes in our accounting policies. Those changes could adversely affect our reported revenues and expenses, future profitability or financial position. Compliance with new regulations regarding corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from science and business activities to compliance activities. Global credit and financial market conditions may negatively impact or impair the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents and long-term investments, including auction rate securities, and our ability to fund our planned operations. Our cash, cash equivalents and investments are held in a variety of instruments and subject to investment guidelines allowing for investments in United States government and agency securities, high-grade corporate bonds, taxable municipal bonds, mortgage-backed securities, auction rate securities, commercial paper, bank checking accounts and money market accounts. As a result of the uncertain global credit and financial market conditions, investments in some financial instruments, such as auction rate securities, pose risks arising from liquidity and credit concerns. As of December 31, 2011 we held auction rate securities valued at $5.8 million that have failed at auction and are currently illiquid. Given that future deterioration in the global credit and financial markets is a possibility, no assurance can be made that losses, failed auctions or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or investments will not occur. If any such losses, failed auctions or other significant deteriorations occur, it may negatively impact or impair our current portfolio of cash equivalents and investments and our ability to fund our planned operations. Further, unless and until the current global credit and financial market crisis has been sufficiently resolved, it may be difficult for us to liquidate our investments prior to their maturity without incurring a loss. Risks Related to Our Stock Our stock price is volatile and our shares may suffer a decline in value. The market price of our stock has in the past been, and is likely to continue in the future to be, very volatile. During the fourth quarter of 2011, our closing stock price fluctuated between $15.02 and $22.28 per share. As a result of fluctuations in the price of our common stock, you may be unable to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for them. The market price of our common stock may be subject to substantial volatility in response to many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control, including: • the level of ADCETRIS sales in the United States; • announcements regarding the results of discovery efforts and preclinical and clinical activities by us, including the clinical results of any of our current product candidates, or our competitors; • announcements regarding the results of the post-approval confirmatory studies of ADCETRIS that we are required to conduct as a condition to the FDA’s grant of accelerated approval for ADCETRIS, as well as the results of any other clinical trials that we are or may in the future conduct for ADCETRIS; 40 Table of Contents • announcements regarding, or negative publicity concerning, adverse events associated with the use of ADCETRIS and our product candidates; • issuance of new or changed analysts’ reports and recommendations regarding us or our competitors; • announcements of FDA approval or non-approval of our product candidates, or specific label indications for or restrictions, warnings or limitations in its use, or delays in the FDA review process; • termination of or changes in our existing collaborations or licensing arrangements, especially our ADCETRIS collaboration with Millennium; • establishment of new collaboration, partnering or licensing arrangements, or the termination or completion of any collaborations or other arrangements, by us or our competitors; • actions taken by regulatory authorities with respect to our product candidates, our clinical trials or our regulatory filings; • our ability to raise additional capital when we need it and the terms upon which we may raise any additional capital; • market conditions for equity investments in general, or the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industries in particular; • developments or disputes concerning our proprietary rights; • share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; • changes in government regulations; and • economic or other external factors. The stock markets in general, and the markets for biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced significant volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The financial markets continue to face significant uncertainty, resulting in a decline in investor confidence and concerns about the proper functioning of the securities markets, which decline in general investor confidence resulted in depressed stock prices for many companies notwithstanding the lack of a fundamental change in their underlying business models or prospects. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs, which would hurt our financial condition and results of operations and divert management’s attention and resources, which could result in delays of our clinical trials or our development and commercialization efforts. Our existing stockholders have significant control of our management and affairs. Our executive officers and directors and holders of greater than five percent of our outstanding voting stock, together with entities that may be deemed affiliates of, or related to, such persons or entities, beneficially owned approximately 69.3 percent of our voting power as of February 23, 2012. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, may be able to control our management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of substantially all of our assets. Consequently, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, including a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, which might affect the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders, which authority could be used to adopt a “poison pill” that could act to 41 Table of Contents prevent a change of control of Seattle Genetics that has not been approved by our Board of Directors. The rights of the holders of common stock may be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of Seattle Genetics without further action by the stockholders and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of common stock. Further, certain provisions of our charter documents, including provisions eliminating the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent and limiting the ability of stockholders to raise matters at a meeting of stockholders without giving advance notice, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management of Seattle Genetics, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. In addition, our charter documents provide for a classified board, which may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board of Directors. Similarly, state anti-takeover laws in Delaware and Washington related to corporate takeovers may prevent or delay a change of control of Seattle Genetics. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 