Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects are subject to the following risks. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently foreseeable to us may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and our stockholders may lose all or part of their investment in the shares of our common stock. You should carefully consider the risks described below before buying our common stock. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, that event could cause the market value of our common stock to decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our sales revenue remains small and mainly derived from a few products and a disruption in, or a compromise of, our manufacturing or sales operations, or distribution channels related to any of these products could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We booked our first product revenues in late 2006, and only reached a modest level of sales for the year ended June 30, 2010, mainly derived from a few products approved by the China SFDA. We expect that these products will continue to account for a majority of our sales in the near future. Because of our dependence on a few products, any disruption in, or compromise of, our manufacturing operations, sales operations or distribution channels, relating to any of these products could result in our failure to meet shipping and delivery deadlines or meet quality standards, which in turn could result in the cancellation of purchase orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our fina ncial condition and results of operations. We lack sufficient capital to fully carry out our business plan. In order to make our operations cost-efficient, it is necessary that we expand our operations. At the present time, however, our capital resources are sparse. We are exploring various alternatives to improve our financial position and secure other sources of financing. Such possibilities include a new credit facility, new equity raise, new arrangements to license intellectual property, the sales of selected property rights. Intense competition from existing and new companies may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We compete with other companies, many of whom are developing, or can be expected to develop, products similar to ours. Some of our competitors are more established than we are, have greater brand recognition of products that compete with ours, have more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we presently possess and a larger customer base. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities and customer requirements and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to customers or adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, m ore effective, have fewer side effects, are less expensive or have more attractive product characteristics than our current products or products that we may develop in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not harm our business. 12 Most of our pipeline products contain narcotic ingredients. As a result of reports of misuse or abuse of prescription narcotics, the sale of such drugs may be subject to new regulation, which may prove difficult or expensive to comply with, and we and other pharmaceutical companies may face lawsuits. Most of our core pipeline products contain narcotic ingredients. Misuse or abuse of such drugs can lead to physical or other harm. For example, in the past two years, reportedly widespread misuse or abuse of OxyContin®, a product of Purdue Pharma L.P., or Purdue, containing the narcotic oxycodone, resulted in the strengthening of warnings on its labeling. In addition, we believe that Purdue, the manufacturer of OxyContin®, faces or did face numerous lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, related to OxyContin® misuse or abuse. We may be subject to litigation similar to the OxyContin® suits related to our generic version of oxycodone or any other narcotic containing product that we market. The China SFDA and Department of Health may impose new regulations concerning the research and development, manufacture, storage, transportation and sale of prescription narcotics. Such regulations may include new labeling requirements, the development and implementation of formal risk minimization action plans, restrictions on prescription and sale of these products. The Chinese government and its agencies could require companies to formulate risk evaluation and mitigation strategies to ensure a drug’s benefits outweigh its risks. In addition, the government and its agencies have authority to regulate distribution and may modify their regulations with respect to prescription narcotics in an attempt to curb abuse. In either case, any such ne w regulations or requirements may be difficult and expensive for us to comply with, may delay our introduction of new products, may adversely affect our net sales and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on our key management personnel and the loss of their services could adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management. We place substantial reliance upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers. The loss of services of any of these individuals or one or more other members of our senior management could delay or prevent the successful execution of our business objectives and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Replacing key employees may be difficult and costly and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to develop and commercialize products successfully. We do not maintain “key person” insurance policies on the lives of these individuals or the lives of any of our other employees. The Company has entered into Employment Agreements with these individuals. We will need to hire additional personnel as we expand our commercial activities. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management on acceptable terms in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel in our industry. If we are not able to attract an d retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede these objectives. 13 We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete acquisitions or successfully integrate new businesses into our own. We intend to pursue opportunities to grow our business by acquiring businesses, products and technologies that are complementary or related to our existing product lines. Successful completion of an acquisition depends on a number of factors that are not entirely within our control, including our ability to negotiate acceptable terms, conclude satisfactory agreements and obtain all necessary regulatory approvals. We may not be able to locate suitable acquisition candidates at prices that we consider appropriate. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may face competition from other companies interested in acquiring the target company that have greater financial and other resources than we have. Acquisitions of businesses, products, technologies or other material operations may require debt financing or additional equity financing, resulting in leverage or dilution of ownership. Even if we complete one or more strategic transactions, we may be unable to integrate or coordinate successfully the personnel and operations of a business. Integration of acquired business operations could disrupt our business by diverting management away from day-to-day operations. The difficulties of integration may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. We also may not be able to maintain key employees or customers of an acquired business or realize cost efficiencies or synergies or other benefits we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates. In addition, we may incur non-recurring severance expenses, restructuring charges and change of control payments and may need to record write-downs from future impairments of intangible assets, which could reduce our future reported earnings. At times, acquisition candidates may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence prior to the acquisition. In addition to the above, acquisitions in China, including of state owned businesses, will be required to comply with laws of the PRC, to the extent applicable. There can be no assurance that any proposed acquisition will be able to comply with PRC requirements, rules and/or regulations, or that we will successfully obtain governmental approvals to the extent required, which may be necessary to consummate such acquisitions. If we fail to manage our growth and current operations, we may not achieve future growth or our expected revenues. In order to maximize potential growth in our current and potential markets, we believe that we must expand our manufacturing and marketing operations. To this end, we are and expect to continue to substantially increase our employee headcount which will place a significant strain on our management and on our operational, accounting, and information systems. Our need to manage our operations and growth effectively requires us to continue to expend funds to improve our financial controls, operating procedures, management information systems, reporting systems and procedures to manage our increased operations. If we are unable to implement improvements to our management information and control systems successfully in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in our existing systems and controls, then management may receive inadequate information to manage our day-to-day operations. We will also need to effectively train, motivate and manage our employees. Our failure to manage our growth could disrupt our operations and ultimately prevent us from generating the revenues we expect. 14 We may be unable to secure the government licenses that are necessary for us to engage in the sale of analgesic pharmaceuticals. The manufacture and marketing of narcotic drugs is highly regulated in China. Prior to marketing any of our products, we are required to satisfy several government protocols, and receive several licenses from the national and local governments. Obtaining these licenses can be expensive and it is usually time consuming. If we are unable to obtain the necessary licenses when we need to have them, our business plan will be delayed. If the delays prevent us from generating positive cash flow or introducing a significant number of products, our business may fail. We may have difficulty defending our intellectual property rights from infringement which may undermine our competitive position. We have been designing and developing new technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secret laws, and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Unauthorized use of our technology could damage our ability to compete effectively. We regard our service marks, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on trademark, patent and trade secret law, as well as confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary rights. Certain of our products have received trademark and patent protection in China. No assurance can be given that such patents and licenses will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or that such intellectual property rights will provide a competitive advantage to us. Our trade se crets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Policing the unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. The outcome of such potential litigation may not be in our favor and any success in litigation may not be able to adequately protect our rights. Such litigation may be costly and divert management attention away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation would impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. Enforcement of judgments in China is uncertain and even if we are successful in such litigation it may not provide us with an effective remedy. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses from third-parties that we may need to conduct our business or that such licenses can be obtained at a reasonable cost. In addition, third parties may file infringement claims against us asserting that we are infringing on their patents or trademarks. In the event that such claims are filed, regardless of the merit of such a claim, we may incur substantial costs and diversion of management as a result of our involvement in such proceedings. 15 We are dependent on third parties to supply all raw materials used in our products and to provide services for certain core aspects of our business. Any interruption or failure by these suppliers, distributors and collaboration partners to meet their obligations pursuant to various agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third parties to supply all raw materials used in our products. In addition, we rely on third party suppliers, distributors and collaboration partners to provide services for certain core aspects of our business, including manufacturing, warehousing, distribution, customer service support, medical affairs services, clinical studies, sales and other technical and financial services. All third party suppliers and contractors are subject to the China SFDA, and government agency requirements. Our business and financial viability are dependent on the regulatory compliance of these third parties, and on the strength, validity and terms of our various contracts with these third party manufacturers, distributors and collaboration partners. Any interruption or failure by these suppliers, distributors and collaboratio n partners to meet their obligations pursuant to various agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon third parties to provide us with various estimates as a basis for our financial reporting. While we undertake certain procedures to review the reasonability of this information, we cannot obtain absolute assurance over the accounting methods and controls over the information provided to us by third parties. As a result we are at risk of them providing us with erroneous data which could have a material adverse impact on our business. The government limits the availability of the active ingredients used in many of our current products and products in development and, as a result, our procurement quota may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. The Chinese government and SFDA regulate the access and supplies of chemical compounds in some of our current products and products in development, including oxycodone, codeine, buprenorphine, Tilidine. Consequently, their manufacture, shipment, storage, sale and use are subject to a high degree of regulation. Furthermore, the government limits the availability of the active ingredients used in many of our current products and products in development and, as a result, our procurement quota of these active ingredients may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. We must annually apply to the government agencies for procurement quota in order to obtain these substances. Any delay or refusal by the agencies in establishing our procurement quota for controlled substances could delay or stop our clinical trials, product launches or could cause trade inventory disruptions for those products that have already been launched, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Timing and results of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of products as well as the SFDA’s approval of products are uncertain. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the sale of our products, , we must demonstrate through preclinical studies and clinical trials that the product is safe and effective for each intended use. Preclinical and clinical studies may fail to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of a product. A failure to demonstrate safety and efficacy would result in our failure to obtain regulatory approvals. 16 The rate of patient enrollment sometimes delays completion of clinical studies. There is substantial competition to enroll patients in clinical, and such competition has delayed clinical development of our products in the past. Delays in planned patient enrollment can result in increased development costs and delays in regulatory approval. In addition, we rely on collaboration partners that may control or make changes in trial protocol and design enhancements that may also delay clinical trials. We cannot assure you that we will not experience delays or undesired results in these or any other of our clinical trials. We cannot assure you that the SFDA or other regulatory agencies will approve any products developed by us, on a timely basis, if at all, or, if granted, that such approval will not subject the marketing of our products to certain limits on indicated use. Any limitation on use imposed by the SFDA or delay in or failure to obtain SFDA approvals of products developed by us would adversely affect the marketing of these products and our ability to generate product revenue, as well as adversely affect the price of our common stock. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for certain generic products, we must conduct limited clinical or other trials to show comparability to the branded products. A failure to obtain satisfactory results in these trials would prevent us from obtaining required regulatory approvals. We do not have adequate product liability insurance and we could be exposed to substantial liability. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in adverse side effects. Adverse side effects, marketing or manufacturing problems pertaining to any of our products could result in: • decreased demand for our products; • adverse publicity resulting in injury to our reputation; • product liability claims and significant litigation costs; • substantial monetary awards to or costly settlements with consumers; • product recalls; • loss of revenues; or • the inability to commercialize future products. These risks will exist for those products in clinical development and with respect to those products that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale or any product we may acquire. To date, we have not experienced any product liability claims. However, that does not mean that we will not have any such claims with respect to our products in the future. We do not carry product liability insurance. The lack of product liability insurance exposes us to risks associated with potential product liability claims, which can be significant. 17 Our international operations require us to comply with a number of U.S. and international regulations. We need to comply with a number of international regulations in countries outside of the United States. In addition, we must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity or obtain any unfair advantage. Any failure by us to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that our employees and agents comply with the FCPA and applicable laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial penalties or restrictions on our ability to conduct business in certain foreign jurisdictions. The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Asset Control, or OFAC, administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions against targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals. As a result, we are restricted from entering into transactions with certain targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals except as permitted by OFAC which may reduce our future growth. We may incur significant costs to ensure compliance with U.S. corporate governance and accounting requirements. We may incur significant costs associated with our public company reporting requirements, costs associated with newly applicable corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, and other rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission. We expect all of these applicable rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect that these applicable rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult f or us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors, on committees of our board of directors or as executive officers. As a public company, we are required to comply with rules and regulations of the SEC, including expanded disclosure, accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. This will continue to require additional cost management resources. We will need to continue to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls as we grow to satisfy these reporting requirements. In addition, we may need to hire additional legal and accounting staff with appropriate experience and technical knowledge, and we cannot assure you that if additional staffing is necessary that we will be able to do so in a timely fashion. If we are unable to complete the required annual assessment as to the adequacy of our internal reporting or if our independent registered public accounting firm is un able to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in the future, we could incur significant costs to become compliant. We continuously evaluate and monitor developments with respect to Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley and other applicable rules, however, we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. 18 There could be changes in government regulations in China toward the pharmaceutical industries that may adversely affect our business. The manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products in China is heavily regulated by many state, provincial and local authorities. These regulations significantly increase the difficulty and costs involved in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for marketing new and existing products. Our future growth and profitability depend to a large extent on our ability to obtain regulatory approvals. Additionally, the law could change so as to prohibit the use of certain pharmaceuticals. If one of our products becomes prohibited, this change would cease the productivity of that product. The China National Development and Reform Commission, or CNDRC, has recently implemented price adjustments on many marketed pharmaceutical products. We have no control over such governmental policies, which may impact the pricing and p rofitability of our products. The State Food and Drug Administration of China requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to obtain Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP, certifications. We have received our certifications. However, should we fail to receive or maintain the GMP certifications in the future, we would no longer be able to manufacture pharmaceuticals in China, and our businesses would be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, the laws and regulations regarding acquisitions in the pharmaceutical industry in China may change, which could significantly impact our ability to grow through acquisitions. Certain political and economic considerations relating to China could adversely affect our company. China is transitioning from a planned economy to a market economy. While the PRC government has pursued economic reforms since its adoption of the open-door policy in 1978, a large portion of the Chinese economy is still operating under five-year plans and annual state plans. Through these plans and other economic measures, such as control on foreign exchange, taxation and restrictions on foreign participation in the domestic market of various industries, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the economy. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the PRC government are unprecedented or experimental, and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of such reforms. This refining and readjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations or future business development. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in China’s economic and social conditions as well as by changes in the policies of the PRC government, such as changes in laws and regulations, or the official interpretation thereof, which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the interest rate or method of taxation, and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. 19 The pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, which creates uncertainty about our ability to bring new products to market and imposes substantial compliance costs on our business. The China SFDA as well as Department of Health impose substantial requirements on the development, manufacture, labeling, sale, distribution, marketing, advertising, promotion and introduction of therapeutic narcotic pharmaceutical products through lengthy and detailed laboratory and clinical testing and other costly and time-consuming procedures. The submission of a drug application alone does not guarantee that the SFDA will grant approval to market the product. Satisfaction of SFDA requirements typically takes a number of years, varies substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the pharmaceutical product and is subject to uncertainty. The drug approval process varies in time, could take several years from the date of application. The timing for the approval process is difficult to estima te and can vary significantly. The current SFDA standards of approving pharmaceutical products are more stringent than those that were applied in the past. These standards were not applied to many established products currently on the market, including certain narcotics products. We cannot assure you that the SFDA or other regulatory agencies will approve any products developed by us, on a timely basis, if at all, or, if granted, that approval will not entail limiting the indicated uses for which we may market the product, which could limit the potential market for any of these products. The recent nature and uncertain application of many PRC laws applicable to us create an uncertain environment for business operations and they could have a negative effect on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and has since introduced many laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in China and to regulate foreign investment. Progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. The promulgation of new laws, changes of existing laws and the abrogation of local regulations by national laws could have a negative impact on our business and business prospects. In addition, as these laws, reg ulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. Currency conversion and exchange rate volatility could adversely affect our financial condition and the value of our common stock. The PRC government imposes control over the conversion of Renminbi, or RMB, into foreign currencies. Under the current unified floating exchange rate system, the People’s Bank of China publishes an exchange rate, which we refer to as the PBOC exchange rate, based on the previous day’s dealings in the inter-bank foreign exchange market. Financial institutions authorized to deal in foreign currency may enter into foreign exchange transactions at exchange rates within an authorized range above or below the PBOC exchange rate according to market conditions. Pursuant to the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations of the PRC issued by the State Council which came into effect on April 1, 1996, and the Regulations on the Administration of Foreign Exchange Settlement, Sale and Payment of the PRC which came into effect on July 1, 1996, regarding foreign exchange control, conversion of RMB into foreign exchange by Foreign Investment Enterprises, or FIEs, for use on current account items, including the distribution of dividends and profits to foreign investors, is permissible. FIEs are permitted to convert their after-tax dividends and profits to foreign exchange and remit such foreign exchange to their foreign exchange bank accounts in China. Conversion of RMB into foreign currencies for capital account items, including direct investment, loans, and security investment, is still under certain restrictions. On January 14, 1997, the State Council amended the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations and added, among other things, an important provision, which provides that the PRC government shall not impose restrictions on recurring international payments and transfers under current account items. 20 Enterprises in China, including FIEs, which require foreign exchange for transactions relating to current account items, if within a certain limited amount may, without approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, effect payment from their foreign exchange account or convert and pay at the designated foreign exchange banks by providing valid receipts and proofs. Convertibility of foreign exchange in respect of capital account items, such as direct investment and capital contribution, is still subject to certain restrictions, and prior approval from the SAFE or its relevant branches must be sought. Between 1994 and 2004, the exchange rate for RMB against the U.S. dollar remained relatively stable, most of the time in the region of approximately RMB8.28 to US$1.00. However, in 2005, the Chinese government announced that it would begin pegging the exchange rate of the RMB against a number of currencies, rather than just the U.S. dollar. As our operations are primarily in China, any significant revaluation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, financial condition and the value of our common stock. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for our operations, appreciation of this currency against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the value of our common stock. Conversely , if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the RMB, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. Most of our assets are located in China, any dividends or proceeds from liquidation are subject to the approval of the relevant Chinese government agencies. Our assets are predominantly located inside China. Under the laws governing FIEs in China, dividend distribution and liquidation are allowed but subject to special procedures under the relevant laws and rules. Any dividend payment will be subject to the decision of the board of directors and subject to foreign exchange rules governing such repatriation. Any liquidation is subject to both the relevant government agency’s approval and supervision as well the foreign exchange control. This may generate additional risk for our investors in case of dividend payment or liquidation. There have been recent incidents in which patients have experienced severe adverse reactions following the use of pharmaceutical products manufactured in China. There have been recent incidents reported in the Chinese media of a significant number of patients experiencing severe adverse health consequences following their use of pharmaceutical products manufactured by certain pharmaceutical companies in China. A number of patients have become ill and a number of fatalities have been reported. For example, several deaths were caused by drugs sold by the Second Pharmaceutical Factory of Qiqihaer, a Chinese drug manufacturer, in May 2006. Concerns over the safety of pharmaceutical products manufactured in China could have an adverse effect on the sale of such products, including products manufactured by us. If in the future we become involved in incidents of the type described above, such problems could severely and adversely impact our product sales and reputation. 21 Anti-corruption measures taken by the government to correct corruptive practices in the pharmaceutical industry could adversely affect our sales and reputation. The government has recently taken anti-corruption measures to correct corrupt practices. In the pharmaceutical industry, such practices include, among others, acceptance of kickbacks, bribery or other illegal gains or benefits by the hospitals and medical practitioners from pharmaceutical distributors in connection with the prescription of a certain drug. Substantially all of our sales to our ultimate customers are conducted through third-party distributors. We have no control over our third-party distributors, who may engage in corrupt practices to promote our products. While we maintain strict anti-corruption policies applicable to our internal sales force and third-party distributors, these policies may not be effective. If any of our third-party distributors engage in such practices and the government takes enforce ment action, our products may be seized and our own practices, and involvement in the distributors’ practices may be investigated. If this occurs, our sales and reputation may be materially and adversely affected. We may never pay any dividends to our stockholders. We have not paid any cash dividends on shares of our common stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and future earnings, if any, to support our operations and finance the growth and development of our business. Our board of directors does not intend to distribute dividends in the foreseeable future. The declaration, payment and amount of any future dividends, if any, will be made at the discretion of the board of directors, and will depend upon, among other things, the results of our operations, cash flows and financial condition, operating and capital requirements, and other factors the board of directors considers relevant. There is no assurance that future dividends will be paid, and if dividends are paid, there is no assurance with respect to the amount of any such dividend. Capital outflow policies in China may hamper our ability to pay dividends to shareholders in the United States. The People’s Republic of China has adopted currency and capital transfer regulations. These regulations require that we comply with complex regulations for the movement of capital. Although Chinese governmental policies were introduced in 1996 to allow the convertibility of RMB into foreign currency for current account items, conversion of RMB into foreign exchange for capital items, such as foreign direct investment, loans or securities, requires the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. We may be unable to obtain all of the required conversion approvals for our operations, and Chinese regulatory authorities may impose greater restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB in the future. Because most of our future rev enues will be in RMB, any inability to obtain the requisite approvals or any future restrictions on currency exchanges will limit our ability to fund our business activities outside China or to pay dividends to our shareholders. 22 Our business development would be hindered if we lost the services of our Chairman. Zhenjiang Yue is the Chief Executive Officer of Aoxing Pharma and of its operating subsidiary, Hebei Aoxing Pharmaceutical Group. Mr. Yue is responsible for strategizing not only our business plan but also the means of financing it. If Mr. Yue were to leave Hebei Aoxing or become unable to fulfill his responsibilities, our business would be imperiled. At the very least, there would be a delay in the development of Hebei Aoxing until a suitable replacement for Mr. Yue could be retained. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 