Risk Factors Relating to the KPS Spin-Off If the Spin-off Transaction does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, tax could be imposed on us and our shareholders. As a condition to closing the Spin-off Transaction in 2007, we received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) that the spin-off of KPS and the subsequent merger of KPS and distribution of PharMerica common stock qualified for tax-free treatment to holders of our common stock (except with respect to cash received in lieu of a fractional share) and, generally, to us. Though the IRS ruling has been received, the ruling does not address all of the issues that are relevant to determining whether the Spin-off Transaction will qualify for tax-free treatment because the IRS will not rule on certain issues. As a condition to closing, we received an opinion of counsel that the Spin-off Transaction generally qualifies for tax-free treatment to us and our shareholders. The opinion of counsel is intended to address certain of those matters that the ruling does not. The IRS ruling and opinion of counsel do not address, however, state, local or foreign tax consequences of the Spin-off Transaction, merger and distribution of PharMerica common stock. The IRS ruling and the opinion of counsel relied on representations, assumptions and undertakings made by us and PharMerica (and its subsidiaries), including representations and undertakings from PharMerica regarding the conduct of its business and other matters after the closing of the Spin-off Transaction. If such representations, assumptions or undertakings are incorrect, neither the IRS ruling nor the opinion of counsel would be valid. In 52 Table of Contents addition, current law generally creates a presumption that the spin-off of KPS in the Spin-off Transaction would be taxable to us, but not to our shareholders, if PharMerica or its shareholders were to engage in certain transactions that result in a change in ownership of its stock during the four-year period beginning two years before the Spin-off Transaction, unless it is established that the Spin-off Transaction and such transactions were not part of a plan or series of related transactions to effect a change in ownership of the stock of PharMerica. Furthermore, notwithstanding the IRS private letter ruling and the opinion of counsel, the IRS could determine that the Spin-off Transaction should be treated as a taxable transaction to us and our shareholders if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel that are not covered by the IRS ruling. If the spin-off of KPS in the Spin-off Transaction fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, the deemed receipt of shares of KPS will be treated as a taxable distribution to our shareholders. In addition, events occurring after the distribution of common stock of PharMerica could cause us to recognize a gain on the spin-off of KPS. We may be required to satisfy certain indemnification obligations to PharMerica or may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from PharMerica. Under the terms of the Spin-off Transaction, we indemnified PharMerica, and PharMerica indemnified us, for certain damages, liabilities and expenses resulting from a breach by the other of certain covenants contained in a master transaction agreement and other agreements entered into as part of the Spin-off Transaction. These indemnification obligations could be significant and we cannot presently determine the amount, if any, of indemnification obligations for which we may be liable or for which we may seek payment. Our ability to satisfy these obligations will depend upon our future financial performance and other factors. Similarly, the ability of PharMerica to satisfy any such obligations to us will depend on its future financial performance and other factors. We cannot assure you that we will have the ability to satisfy any obligations to PharMerica or that PharMerica will have the ability to satisfy any obligations to us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 