Risk Factors Relating to Our Operations Acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances that we have made or may make in the future may use significant resources, may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. We intend to continue to selectively pursue strategic acquisitions of, investments in, and strategic alliances with, hospitals, IRFs, nursing centers, rehabilitation operations, and home health and hospice operations, particularly where an acquisition may assist us in scaling our operations more rapidly and efficiently than internal growth. Acquisitions may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, additional operating losses, amortization of certain intangible assets of acquired companies, dilutive issuances of equity securities and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances involve numerous risks. These risks include: • limitations on our ability to identify acquisitions that meet our target criteria and limitations on our ability to complete such acquisitions on reasonable terms and valuations; 67 Table of Contents • limitations on our ability to access equity or capital to fund acquisitions, including difficulty in obtaining financing for acquisitions at a reasonable cost, or that such financing will not contain restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility or ability to access additional capital when needed; • entry into markets or businesses in which we may have limited or no experience; • difficulties integrating acquired operations, personnel and information systems, and in realizing projected efficiencies and cost savings, particularly in the case of significant acquisitions; • diversion of management’s time from existing operations; • potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired companies; • inaccurate assessment of assets and liabilities and exposure to undisclosed or unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws; • inability to operate acquired facilities profitably or succeed in achieving improvements in their financial performance; and • impairment of acquired goodwill and intangible assets. We continue to seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities for each of our businesses that may negatively impact our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We continue to seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities for each of our businesses, particularly where an acquisition or strategic opportunity may assist us in scaling our operations more rapidly and efficiently than internal growth. Accordingly, we are often engaged in evaluating potential transactions and other strategic alternatives, some of which may be significant in size, and we engage in preliminary discussions that may result in one or more transactions. Although there is uncertainty that any of our discussions will result in definitive agreements or the timing of announcement or completion of any transaction, our business, short-term and long-term financial position, results of operations and liquidity may be impacted if we announce or complete any such transaction or if we incur substantial costs or other losses in connection with such transaction, whether or not it is completed. Moreover, although we intend to enter into transactions that enhance long-term shareholder value, our ability to achieve this objective would be subject to integration risks, the ability to retain and attract key personnel, the ability to realize synergies and other risks, all of which would be more material with transactions of significant size. In addition to acquisitions, we also may pursue strategic opportunities involving the construction of new hospitals or nursing and rehabilitation centers. The construction of new facilities involves numerous risks, including construction delays, cost over-runs, and the satisfaction of zoning and other regulatory requirements. We may be unable to operate newly constructed facilities profitably and such facilities may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, additional operating losses, and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We operate 14 of our facilities through joint ventures with unrelated parties. We are the majority owner of each of those joint ventures. We may enter into additional joint ventures with unrelated parties in the future to acquire, own or operate hospitals, IRFs, nursing and rehabilitation centers and/or home health and hospice services. We will typically seek to be the majority owner of any such new joint ventures. While, as the majority owner, we typically control the day-to-day activities of these joint ventures, the joint venture agreements with our partners often include provisions reserving certain major actions for super-majority approval. Such actions may include entering into a new business activity or ceasing an existing activity, taking on substantial debt, admitting new partners, and terminating the venture. In addition, the joint venture agreements may restrict our ability to derive cash from the joint venture and affect our ability to transfer our interest in the joint venture. We may be required to provide additional capital to a joint venture if our partner defaults on its capital obligations. 68 Table of Contents Certain events or circumstances could result in the impairment of our assets or other charges, including, without limitation, impairments of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets that result in material charges to earnings. We review the carrying value of certain long-lived assets, finite lived intangible assets and indefinite-lived intangible assets with respect to any events or circumstances that indicate an impairment or an adjustment to the amortization period may be necessary, such as when the market value of our common stock is below book equity value. On an ongoing basis, we also evaluate, based upon the fair value of our reporting units, whether the carrying value of our goodwill is impaired. If circumstances suggest that the recorded amounts of any of these assets cannot be recovered based upon estimated future cash flows, the carrying values of such assets are reduced to fair value. If the carrying value of any of these assets is impaired, we may incur a material charge to earnings. During 2012, we determined that pretax impairment charges aggregating $111 million were necessary, which included $108 million of goodwill and $3 million of property and equipment. These charges were directly related to the Taxpayer Relief Act and the 2011 CMS Rules which significantly reduced Medicare payments to our skilled nursing rehabilitation services operating segment and our nursing and rehabilitation centers. In the fourth quarter 2011, we incurred an aggregate pretax impairment charge of $54 million, of which $11 million was reclassified to discontinued operations in 2012, on the value of the certificates of need intangible assets of certain hospitals and co-located nursing and rehabilitation centers in Massachusetts. See note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. During 2011, we also determined that pretax impairment charges aggregating $75 million were necessary, which included $52 million of goodwill and $23 million of property and equipment. These charges were directly related to the 2011 CMS Rules which significantly reduced Medicare payments to our nursing and rehabilitation centers and changed the reimbursement for group rehabilitation therapy services. Future adverse changes in the operating environment and related key assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets or continued declines in the value of our common stock may result in future impairment charges for a portion or all of these assets. Moreover, the value of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets could be negatively impacted by potential healthcare reforms. Any such impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We could experience significant increases to our operating costs due to shortages of qualified nurses, therapists and other healthcare professionals or union activity. The market for qualified nurses, therapists and other healthcare professionals is highly competitive. We, like other healthcare providers, have experienced difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel such as nurses, certified nurse’s assistants, nurse’s aides, therapists and other providers of healthcare services. Our hospitals, nursing and rehabilitation centers and home health and hospice operations are particularly dependent on nurses for patient care. Our rehabilitation division continues to seek qualified therapists to fill open positions. The difficulty we have experienced in hiring and retaining qualified personnel has increased our average wage rates and may force us to increase our use of contract personnel. In addition, healthcare providers are experiencing a high level of union activity across the country. At December 31, 2012, approximately 3,000 of the employees at 35 of our facilities were unionized. Though we cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by future union activity, there are continuing legislative proposals that could result in increased union activity. We could experience an increase in labor and other costs from such union activity. Furthermore, we could experience a disruption of our operations if our employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage. We expect to continue to experience increases in our labor costs primarily due to higher wages and greater benefits required to attract and retain qualified healthcare personnel. Salaries, wages and benefits were approximately 59% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. Our ability to manage labor costs will significantly affect our future operating results. 69 Table of Contents We could experience significant legal actions, fines and increases in our operating costs if we fail to comply with state minimum staffing requirements. Various states in which we operate hospitals and nursing and rehabilitation centers have established minimum staffing requirements or may establish minimum staffing requirements in the future. Staffing requirements in some states are not contingent upon any additional appropriation of state funds in any budget act or other statute. Our ability to satisfy such staffing requirements will, among other things, depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified healthcare professionals. While we seek to comply with all applicable staffing requirements, the regulations in this area are complex and we may experience compliance issues from time to time. Failure to comply with such minimum staffing requirements may result in one or more facilities failing to meet the conditions of participation under relevant federal and state healthcare programs and the imposition of fines or other sanctions. Private litigation involving these matters also has become more common, and certain of our facilities are the subject of litigation involving claims brought in 2010 that we did not meet relevant staffing requirements from time to time since 2006. Moreover, a portion of the staffing costs we incur is funded by states through Medicaid program appropriations or otherwise. If states do not appropriate sufficient additional funds to pay for any additional operating costs resulting from such minimum staffing requirements, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. If we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business and achieve our objectives. Our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees and our ability to retain and motivate these individuals. Competition for these individuals is intense and there can be no assurance that we will retain our key officers and employees or that we can attract or retain other highly qualified individuals in the future. If we lose the services of one or more of our key officers or employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business, achieve our business objectives or replace them with similarly qualified personnel. If we lose key personnel, we may be unable to replace them with personnel of comparable experience, reputation in the industry or skills. The loss of any of our key officers or employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. If we fail to attract patients and compete effectively with other healthcare providers or if our referral sources fail to view us as an attractive post-acute healthcare provider, our revenues and profitability may decline. The post-acute healthcare services industry is highly competitive. Our hospitals face competition from healthcare providers that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. Many competing hospitals are larger and more established than our hospitals. We may experience increased competition from existing hospitals, as well as hospitals converted, in whole or in part, to specialized care facilities. Our nursing and rehabilitation centers compete on a local and regional basis with other nursing centers and post-acute healthcare providers. Some of our competitors operate newer facilities and may offer services not provided by us or are operated by entities having greater financial and other resources than us. Our rehabilitation and home health and hospice divisions compete with national, regional and local service providers within our markets. Several of these competitors may have greater financial and other resources than us, may be more established in the markets in which we compete and may be willing to provide services at lower prices. We cannot assure you that increased competition in the future will not adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, we rely significantly on appropriate referrals from physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers in the communities in which we deliver our services to attract appropriate patients and residents. Our 70 Table of Contents referral sources are not obligated to refer business to us and may refer business to other healthcare providers. We believe many of our referral sources refer patients and residents to us as a result of the quality of our patient services and our efforts to establish and build a relationship with them. If any of our facilities fail to achieve or maintain a reputation for providing high quality care, or are perceived to provide a lower quality of care than comparable facilities within the same geographic area, or customers of our rehabilitation therapy, home health and hospice services perceive that they could receive higher quality services from other providers, our ability to attract and retain patients and customers could be adversely affected. We believe that the perception of our quality of care by potential residents or patients or their families seeking our services is influenced by a variety of factors, including physician and other healthcare professional referrals, community information and referral services, newspapers and other print and electronic media, results of patient surveys, recommendations from family and friends, and published quality care statistics compiled by CMS or other industry data. If we lose, or fail to maintain, existing relationships with our referral resources, fail to develop new relationships or if we are perceived by our referral sources for any reason as not providing high quality patient care, our patient volumes and the quality of our patient mix could suffer and our revenue and profitability could decline. Significant legal actions could subject us to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We incur significant costs to investigate and defend against a variety of claims, including professional liability, wage and hour, and minimum staffing claims, among others, particularly in our hospital and nursing and rehabilitation center operations. In addition to large compensatory claims, plaintiffs’ attorneys increasingly are seeking, and have sometimes been successful in obtaining, significant fines and punitive damages and attorneys’ fees. Furthermore, there are continuing efforts to limit the ability of healthcare providers to utilize arbitration as a process to resolve these claims. As a result of these factors, our defense costs and potential liability exposure are significant, unpredictable, and likely to increase. We also are subject to lawsuits under the FCA and comparable state laws for submitting fraudulent bills for services to the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These lawsuits, which may be initiated by “whistleblowers,” can involve significant monetary damages, fines, attorneys’ fees and the award of bounties to private qui tam plaintiffs who successfully bring these suits and to the government programs. We also are subject to payment obligations under contracts we enter into with our rehabilitation division customers to indemnify them against claim denials associated with our services. While we are able to insure against certain of these costs and liabilities, such as our professional liability risks described below, we are not able to do so in many other cases. In the absence of insurance proceeds, we must fund these costs and liabilities from operating cash flows, which can reduce our operating margins and our funds available for investment in our business, and otherwise limit our operating and financial flexibility. We insure a substantial portion of our professional liability risks primarily through our limited purpose insurance subsidiary. Provisions for loss for our professional liability risks are based upon management’s best available information including actuarially determined estimates. The allowance for professional liability risks includes an estimate of the expected cost to settle reported claims and an amount, based upon past experiences, for losses incurred but not reported. These liabilities are necessarily based upon estimates and, while management believes that the provision for loss is adequate, the ultimate liability may be in excess of, or less than, the amounts recorded. Changes in the number of professional liability claims and the cost to settle these claims significantly impact the allowance for professional liability risks. A relatively small variance between our estimated and actual number of claims or average cost per claim could have a material impact, either favorable or unfavorable, on the adequacy of the allowance for professional liability risks. Differences between the ultimate claims costs and our historical provisions for loss and actuarial assumptions and estimates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Our limited purpose insurance subsidiary covers losses up to specified limits per occurrence. On a per claim basis, coverage for losses in excess of those insured by the limited purpose insurance subsidiary are maintained 71 Table of Contents through unaffiliated commercial reinsurance carriers. Our limited purpose insurance subsidiary insures all claims in all states up to a per occurrence limit without the benefit of any aggregate stop loss limit, thereby increasing our financial risk. We maintain professional and general liability insurance in amounts and coverage that management believes are sufficient for our operations. However, our insurance may not cover all claims against us or the full extent of our liability nor continue to be available at a reasonable cost. Moreover, the cost of reinsurance coverage maintained with unaffiliated commercial insurance carriers is costly and may continue to increase. There can be no assurances that in the future reinsurance will be available at a reasonable price or that we will be able to maintain adequate levels of professional and general liability insurance coverage. If we are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage or are required to pay punitive damages that are uninsured, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities. Federal and state employment-related laws and regulations could increase our cost of doing business and subject us to significant back pay awards, fines and lawsuits. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal and state employment-related laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime pay, compensable time, recordkeeping and other working conditions, the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar state laws that provide civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas, the National Labor Relations Act, regulations of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, regulations of the Office of Civil Rights, regulations of state attorneys general, federal and state wage and hour laws, family leave mandates and a variety of similar laws enacted by the federal and state governments that govern these and other employment-related matters. Because labor represents such a large portion of our operating costs, compliance with these evolving federal and state laws and regulations could substantially increase our cost of doing business while failure to do so could subject us to significant back pay awards, fines and lawsuits. We are currently subject to employee-related claims, lawsuits (including class action lawsuits) and administrative proceedings in connection with our operations, including, but not limited to, those related to wrongful discharge, discrimination or violations of equal employment or federal and state wage and hour laws. These claims, lawsuits and proceedings are in various stages of adjudication or investigation and involve a wide variety of claims and potential outcomes. In addition, federal proposals to introduce a system of mandated health insurance and flexible work time and other similar initiatives could, if implemented, adversely affect our operations. Our failure to comply with federal and state employment-related laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Failure to maintain the security and functionality of our information systems could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operation and liquidity. We are dependent on the proper function and availability of our information systems and related software programs. Though we have taken steps to protect the safety and security of our information systems and the patient health information and other data maintained within those systems, there can be no assurance that our safety and security measures and disaster recovery plan will prevent damage, interruption or breach of our information systems and operations. As a result of our acquisition activities, we have acquired additional information systems. We have been taking steps to reduce the number of systems we operate, have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities, and are gradually migrating to fewer information systems. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. In addition, certain software supporting our business and information systems are licensed to us by independent software developers. Our inability, or the inability of these developers, to continue to maintain and upgrade our information systems and software could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. In 72 Table of Contents addition, costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems also could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. Failure to maintain the security and functionality of our information systems and related software could expose us to a number of adverse consequences, the vast majority of which are not insurable, including but not limited to disruptions in our operations, regulatory and other civil and criminal penalties, breach of patient information, loss of customers, disputes with payors and increased operating expense, which either individually or in the aggregate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We have limited operational and strategic flexibility since we lease a substantial number of our facilities. We lease a substantial number of our facilities from Ventas and other third parties. Under our leases, we generally are required to operate continuously our leased properties as a provider of healthcare services. In addition, these leases generally limit or restrict our ability to assign the lease to another party. Our failure to comply with these lease provisions would result in an event of default under the leases and subject us to material damages, including potential defaults under the Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes. Given these restrictions, we may be forced to continue operating unprofitable facilities to avoid defaults under our leases. See “Part I – Item 1 – Business – Master Lease Agreements.” Possible changes in the acuity of residents and patients, as well as payor mix and payment methodologies, may significantly affect our profitability. The sources and amount of our revenues are determined by a number of factors, including the occupancy rates of our facilities, length of stay, the payor mix of residents and patients, rates of reimbursement among payors and patient acuity. Changes in patient acuity as well as payor mix among private pay, Medicare and Medicaid may significantly affect our profitability. In particular, any significant decrease in our population of high acuity patients or any significant increase in our Medicaid population could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity, especially if state Medicaid programs continue to limit, or more aggressively seek limits on, reimbursement rates. We may be unable to reduce costs to offset completely any decreases in our revenues. Reduced levels of occupancy in our facilities and reductions in reimbursements from Medicare, Medicaid or other payors would adversely impact our revenues and liquidity. We may be unable to put in place corresponding reductions in costs in response to declines in census or other revenue shortfalls. The inability to timely adjust our operations to address a decrease in our revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We are exposed to the credit risk of our payors and customers which in the future may cause us to make larger allowances for doubtful accounts or incur bad debt write-offs. Due to weak economic conditions, recent Medicare reimbursement reductions and other factors, commercial payors and customers may default on their payments to us and individual patients may default on co-payments and deductibles for which they are responsible under the terms of either commercial insurance programs or Medicare. Although we review the credit risk of our commercial payors and customers regularly, such risks may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to anticipate or control, such as a general economic downturn. If our payors or customers default on their payments to us in the future, we may have to record higher provisions for allowances for doubtful accounts or incur bad debt write-offs, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. 73 Table of Contents Delays in collection of our accounts receivable could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Prompt billing and collection are important factors in our liquidity. Billing and collection of our accounts receivable are subject to the complex regulations that govern Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement and rules imposed by non-government payors. Our inability, or the inability of our customers, to bill and collect on a timely basis pursuant to these regulations and rules could subject us to payment delays that could negatively impact our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, we may experience delays in reimbursement as a result of the failure to receive prompt approvals related to change of ownership applications for acquired or other facilities or from delays caused by our or other third parties’ information system failures. Significant delays in billing and/or collections may adversely affect the borrowing base under the ABL Facility, potentially limiting the availability of funds under the ABL Facility. Terrorist attacks, pandemics or natural disasters could negatively impact our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Terrorist attacks, pandemics, or acts of nature, such as floods, fires, hurricanes, tornadoes or earthquakes, may cause damage or disruption to us, our employees and our facilities, which could have an adverse impact on our residents and patients. In order to provide care for our residents and patients, we are dependent upon consistent and reliable delivery of food, pharmaceuticals, power and other products to our facilities and the availability of employees to provide services at our facilities. If the delivery of goods or the ability of employees to reach our facilities were interrupted due to a natural disaster, pandemic or a terrorist attack, it could have a significant negative impact on our business. Furthermore, the impact, or impending threat, of a natural disaster has in the past and may in the future require that we evacuate one or more facilities, which would be costly and would involve substantial risks to our operations and potentially to our residents and patients. The impact of natural disasters, pandemics and terrorist attacks is inherently uncertain. Such events could severely damage or destroy one or more of our facilities, harm our business, reputation and financial performance or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Climate change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Climate change could have a potential economic impact on us and climate change mitigation programs and regulations could increase our costs. Energy costs could be higher as a result of climate change regulations. Our costs could increase if utility companies pass on their costs, such as those associated with carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs, or renewable portfolio standards. In addition, climate change may increase the frequency or intensity of natural disasters. As such, we cannot assure you that climate change will not adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The inability or failure of management in the future to conclude that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, or the inability of our independent registered public accounting firm to issue a report of our internal control over financial reporting, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and our independent registered public accounting firm also must audit the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis. If we fail to have, or management or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to conclude that we maintain, effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting, we could be unable to provide timely and reliable financial information which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Different interpretations of accounting principles or changes in generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. 74 Table of Contents Generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and changing and may be subject to varied interpretation by third parties, including the SEC. Such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. Differences in interpretation of generally accepted accounting principles or changes in generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 