ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We May be Unable to Compete Effectively in the Competitive Worldwide Footwear Retailing Industry We face a variety of competitive challenges from other domestic and international footwear retailers, including a number of competitors that have substantially greater financial and marketing resources than we do. These competitors include mass-market discount retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., Target Corp. and Kmart Corporation, department stores such as Sears, Roebuck & Co., Kohl’s Corp. and J.C. Penney Company, Inc., specialty retailers such as Nine West, branded discount stores and sports outlets. We compete with these footwear retailers on the basis of: • developing fashionable, high-quality merchandise in an assortment of sizes, colors and styles that appeals to our target consumers; • anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; • ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain effectiveness; • the pricing of merchandise; • creating an acceptable value proposition for consumers; • providing an inviting, customer friendly shopping environment; • using a customer focused sales staff to provide attentive, product knowledgeable customer service; and • providing strong and effective marketing support. Competition in the retail footwear industry has increased. Mass-market discount retailers such as Wal-Mart aggressively compete with us on the basis of price and have added significant numbers of locations, gaining market share as a result. Accordingly, there is substantial pressure on us to maintain the value proposition of our footwear. In addition, it is possible that mass-market discount retailers will increase their investment in their retail footwear operations, thereby achieving greater market penetration and placing additional competitive pressures on our business. If we are unable to respond effectively to these competitive pressures, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. A Majority of our Operating Expenses are Fixed Costs that are not Dependent Upon our Sales Performance. As a result, Declines in our Operating Performance are Magnified because We are Largely Unable to Reduce Expenses in Response to a Potential Sales Shortfall A majority of our operating expenses are fixed costs that are not dependent on our sales performance, as opposed to variable costs, which increase as sales performance increases. These fixed costs include the leasing costs of our stores, our interest expenses and the majority of our labor expenses. If our sales were to decline, we would be unable to reduce these fixed operating expenses in the short term. Accordingly, the effect of any sales decline is magnified because a larger percentage of our earnings is committed to paying these fixed costs. As a result, our earnings and cash flow would be disportionately negatively effected as a result of decline in sales. We May be Unable to Maintain or Increase our Sales Volume and Margins We have a substantial market presence in all 50 states and the District of Columbia and we currently derive approximately 86% of our revenue from our U.S. stores. Because of our substantial market presence, and because the U.S. footwear retailing industry is mature, for us to increase our sales volume on a unit basis and margins in the United States, we must capture market share from our competitors. Because many of our competitors have more financial and marketing resources than we do, it will be difficult for us to capture this additional market share. We have attempted to capture additional market share through a variety of strategies; however, if we are 11 Table of Contents not successful we may be unable to increase or maintain our sales volumes and margins in the United States, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. We Must Provide Consumers with Seasonally Appropriate Merchandise, Making our Sales Highly Dependent on Seasonable Weather Conditions The domestic retail footwear industry is characterized by four high volume seasons: Easter, early summer, back-to-school and the winter seasons. During each of these seasons, we increase our inventory levels to support the increased demand for our products, as well as offer styles particularly suited for the relevant season, such as sandals in the early summer season and boots during the winter season. If the weather conditions for a particular season vary significantly from those typical for such season, such as an unusually cold early summer or an unusually warm winter, consumer demand for the seasonally appropriate merchandise that we have available in our stores could be adversely affected and negatively impact net sales and margins. Lower demand for seasonally appropriate merchandise may leave us with an excess inventory of our seasonally appropriate products and/or basic products, forcing us to sell both types of products at significantly discounted prices and adversely affect our net sales margins and operating cash flow. Consequently, our results of operations are highly dependent on favorable weather conditions. We May be Unable to Adjust to Constantly Changing Fashion Trends Our success depends, in large part, upon our ability to gauge the evolving fashion tastes of our consumers and to provide merchandise that satisfies such fashion tastes in a timely manner. The worldwide retailing footwear industry fluctuates according to changing fashion tastes and seasons, and merchandise usually must be ordered well in advance of the season, frequently before consumer fashion tastes are evidenced by consumer purchases. In addition, the cyclical nature of the worldwide footwear retailing industry also requires us to maintain substantial levels of inventory, especially prior to peak selling seasons when we build up our inventory levels. As a result, if we fail to properly gauge the fashion tastes of consumers, or to respond in a timely manner, this failure could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our merchandise and leave us with substantial unsold inventory. If that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which would negatively impact financial results. The Worldwide Footwear Retailing Industry is Heavily Influenced by General Economic Cycles Footwear retailing is a cyclical industry that is heavily dependent upon the overall level of consumer spending. Purchases of footwear and related goods tend to be highly correlated with the cycles of the levels of disposable income of our consumers. As a result, any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions could adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. We May be Unsuccessful in Opening New Stores or Relocating Existing Stores to New Locations, Adversely Affecting our Ability to Grow Our growth is largely dependent upon our ability to expand our retail operations by opening and operating new stores, as well as relocating existing stores to new locations, on a profitable basis. In 2005, we opened 121 new Payless ShoeSource stores, of which 75 were relocations. In 2006, we intend to open approximately 210 new Payless ShoeSource stores, of which 130 are expected to be relocations. 12 Table of Contents Our ability to open new stores and relocate existing stores to new locations on a timely and profitable basis is subject to various contingencies, some of which are beyond our control. These contingencies include our ability to: • locate suitable store sites; • negotiate acceptable lease terms; • build-out or refurbish sites on a timely and cost effective basis; • hire, train and retain qualified managers and personnel; • obtain adequate capital resources; and • successfully integrate new stores into our existing operations. In addition, the opening of stores outside of the United States is subject to a number of additional contingencies, including compliance with local laws and regulations and cultural issues and, because we operate a number of our international stores under joint ventures, issues may arise in our dealings with our joint venture partners or their compliance with the joint venture agreements. We may be unsuccessful in opening new stores or relocating existing stores for any of these reasons. In addition, we cannot assure you that, even if we are successful in opening new stores or relocating existing stores, those stores will achieve levels of sales and profitability comparable to our existing stores. We Rely on Third Parties to Manufacture and Distribute Our Products We depend on contract manufacturers to manufacture the merchandise that we sell in our stores. If these contract manufacturers are unable to secure sufficient supplies of raw materials, or maintain adequate manufacturing and shipping capacity, they may be unable to provide us with timely delivery of products of acceptable quality. In addition, if the prices charged by these contractors increases for reasons such as increases in the price of raw materials, increases in labor costs or currency fluctuations, our cost of manufacturing would increase, adversely affecting our results of operations. We also depend on third parties to transport and deliver our products. Due to the fact that we do not have any independent transportation or delivery capabilities of our own, if these third parties are unable to transport or deliver our products for any reason, or if they increase the price of their services, including as a result of increases in the cost of fuel, our operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. We require our contract manufacturers to meet our standards in terms of working conditions and other matters before we are willing to contract with them to manufacture our merchandise. As a result, we may not be able to obtain the lowest possible manufacturing costs. In addition, any failure by our contract manufacturers to meet these standards, to adhere to labor or other laws or to diverge from our mandated labor practices, and the potential negative publicity relating to any of these events, could harm our business and reputation. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our contract manufacturers, and any of these manufacturers may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time. In 2005 we purchased merchandise for our stores from approximately 150 contract manufacturers. In 2005, we purchased 16% of our merchandise from one affiliated group of factories, and 15 factories accounted for approximately 57% of our footwear purchases in 2005. If any one or all of them terminate their relationships with us or are unable to manufacture our merchandise for any reason, we may have difficulty securing the services of alternative contract manufacturers to replace 13 Table of Contents them. There is also substantial competition among footwear retailers for quality manufacturers. To the extent we are unable to secure or maintain relationships with quality manufacturers, our business could be harmed. There are Risks Associated with Our Importation of Products We import finished merchandise into the United States and the other countries in which we operate from the People’s Republic of China and 9 other countries. Substantially all of this imported merchandise is subject to: - customs duties and tariffs imposed by the governments of countries into which this merchandise is imported; and - penalties imposed for, or adverse publicity relating to, violations of labor and wage standards by foreign contractors. The countries in which our merchandise is manufactured or imported may from time to time impose additional new quotas, tariffs, duties or other restrictions on our merchandise or adversely change existing restrictions. Any such changes could adversely affect our ability to import our products and the results of operations of our business. Manufacturers in China are our major suppliers. China was a direct source of approximately 93% of our merchandise based on cost during 2005. In addition to the products we import directly, a significant amount of the products we purchase from other suppliers has been imported from China. Any deterioration in the trade relationship between the United States and China or any other disruption in our ability to import footwear, accessories, or other products from China could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition to the risks of foreign sourcing stemming from international trade laws, there are also operational risks of relying on such imported merchandise. Our ability to successfully import merchandise derived from foreign sources into the United States is dependent on stable labor conditions in the major ports of the United States. Any instability or deterioration of the domestic labor environment in these ports, such as the work stoppage at West Coast ports in 2002, could result in increased costs, delays or disruption in product deliveries that could cause loss of revenue, damage to customer relationships or materially affect our business. If we are unable to maintain our current Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (“C-TPAT”) status, it would increase the time it takes to get products into our stores. Such delays could materially impact our ability to move the current product in our stores to meet customer demand. Our International Operations are Subject to Political and Economic Risks In 2005, approximately 14% of our sales were generated outside the United States and almost all of our merchandise was manufactured outside the United States. We are accordingly subject to a number of risks relating to doing business internationally, any of which could significantly harm our business, including: - political and economic instability; - exchange controls and currency exchange rates; - language and other cultural barriers; - foreign tax treaties and policies; and 14 Table of Contents - restrictions on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries. Our financial performance on a U.S. dollar denominated basis is also subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. These fluctuations could cause our results of operations to vary materially. From time to time, we enter into agreements seeking to reduce the effects of our exposure to currency fluctuations, but these agreements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to currency fluctuations or may not be available at a cost effective price. We May be Unable to Effectively Protect Our Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property Rights Our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and competitive position. If we were to lose or were unable to effectively protect such intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected. We are Subject to Liability if We Infringe the Trademarks or Other Intellectual Property Rights of Third Parties We are subject to liability if we infringe the trademarks or other intellectual property rights of third parties. If we were to be found liable for any such infringement, we could be required to pay substantial damages and could be subject to injunctions preventing further infringement. If this were to happen, it could have a substantial adverse effect on our business. See also “Legal Proceedings,” included in this Form 10-K. We Rely on Brands We Do Not Own We are increasing our reliance on brands, some of which we do not own. During the last fiscal year, approximately 22% of our revenues were derived from brands that we do not own. Currently, we have agreements in place regarding Champion® and Airwalk® brands that expire on June 30, 2007 and January 31, 2009, respectively. We currently have the exclusive right to use Spalding® brand through April 1, 2007, and the right to use the Dunkman® brand. We, through our agents, also utilize various character marks from time-to-time. If we are unable to renew or replace any brand or character that accounts for a significant portion of its revenue, our results could be adversely affected. Adverse Occurrences at Our Topeka Distribution Center Could Negatively Impact Our Business We operate a distribution center in Topeka, Kansas, which serves as the main source of replenishment of inventory for our stores. In comparison to our total distribution network, the distribution needs of our stores are heavily dependent on products delivered through our Topeka distribution center. In 2005, our Topeka distribution center handled approximately 44% of our stores’ needs. If complications arise with our Topeka distribution center or our Topeka distribution center is severely damaged or destroyed, our other distribution centers may not be able to support the resulting additional distribution demands and we may be unable to locate alternative persons or entities capable of doing so. This may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory to our stores on a timely basis, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Integration Risks of New Distribution Facility Could Negatively Impact Our Business We announced that we intend to open a new distribution facility on the West coast. If we are unable to smoothly transition product flow from one distribution facility in the United States to two facilities in the United States, there could be delays in shipping products to stores. If product arrives late in the selling cycle, we could be forced to mark down or use other promotions to liquidate such inventory which could adversely affect the net sales, margins and operating cash flow. We May Be Unable to Attract and Retain Talented Personnel Our success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified and talented individuals. If we are unable to attract or retain key executives, including senior management, marketing and merchandising personnel, it could adversely affect our business. Prolonged Work Stoppages Could Adversely Affect our Results of Operations As of January 28, 2006, approximately 600 of our employees, including substantially all of our non-management employees at our Topeka distribution center, are covered by four separate collective bargaining agreements that expire from June 6, 2006 through July 15, 2008. We cannot assure you that these agreements will be renewed on similar terms or renegotiated on acceptable terms. Any prolonged work stoppages in one or more of our facilities could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Although there have been no work stoppages or disruptions since the inception of these collective bargaining agreements, we cannot assure you that there will be no disruptions in the future. If more of our employees unionize, it could result in demands that may increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our profitability. If any group of our employees were to unionize and we were unable to reach agreement on the terms of their collective bargaining agreement or we were to experience widespread employee dissatisfaction, we could be subject to work slowdowns or stoppages. In addition, we may be subject to disruptions by organized labor groups protesting the non-union status of the majority of our employees. Any of these events would be disruptive to our operations and could harm our business. An Outbreak of Asian Flu or Other Similar Infectious Diseases May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Ability to Purchase Merchandise from Manufacturers and Our Operations Generally An outbreak and spread of infectious diseases such as Asian flu in Southern China and other countries in which our manufacturers are located could impact the availability or timely delivery of merchandise. Although our ability to purchase and import our merchandise has not been negatively impacted to date, an outbreak of infectious diseases could prevent the manufacturers we use from manufacturing our merchandise or hinder our ability to import those goods to the countries in which our stores are located, either of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 