Risk Factors Various risk factors that are relevant to our business and the services we provide are outlined below. If any of these events were to occur, our business operations and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Risk Related to Our Business and Operations We depend on a limited number of customers and a loss of or significant decrease in business from one or more of them could affect our business. The increased use of strategic partnership arrangements in recent years has resulted in a greater proportion of our net revenues being derived from a relatively limited number of customers. During the year ended December 31, 2013 53% of our net revenues were derived from our top five customers, with two customers individually contributing more than 10% of our net revenues during the period (26% and 10% respectively). No other customer contributed more than 10% of our net revenues during this period. During the year ended December 31, 2012 48% of our net revenues were derived from our top five customers, with two customers individually contributing more than 10% of our net revenues during the period (18% and 12% respectively). No other customer contributed more than 10% of our net revenues during this period. During the year ended December 31, 2011 37% of our net revenues were derived from our top five customers, with 13% of our net revenues derived from one customer. No other customer contributed more than 10% of net revenues during this period. The loss of, or a significant decrease in business from one or more of these key customers could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Many of our contracts are long-term fixed-fee contracts. We would lose money in performing these contracts if the costs of performance exceed the fixed fees for these projects and we were unable to negotiate a change order for the value of work performed. Many of our contracts are long-term fixed fee contracts. Revenues on these contracts are agreed in the contract between the Company and the customer and are based on estimated time inputs to the contract. Factors considered in estimating time requirements include the complexity of the study, the number of geographical sites where trials are to be conducted and the number of patients to be recruited at each site. The Company regularly reviews the estimated hours on each contract to determine if the budget accurately reflects the agreed tasks to be performed taking into account the state of progress at the time of review. The Company further endeavours to ensure that changes in scope are appropriately monitored and change orders for additional revenue are promptly negotiated for additional work as necessary. If we were to fail to recognize and negotiate change orders for changes in the resources required or the scope of the work to be performed the Company could lose money if the costs of performance of these contracts exceeded their fixed fees. If our customers discontinue using our services, or cancel or discontinue projects, our revenue will be adversely affected and/or we may not receive their business in the future or may not be able to attract new clients. Our clients may discontinue using our services completely or cancel some projects either without notice or upon short notice. The termination or delay of a large contract or of multiple contracts could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Historically, clients have cancelled or discontinued projects and may in the future cancel their contracts with us for reasons including: ● the failure of products being tested to satisfy safety or efficacy requirements; ● unexpected or undesired clinical results of the product; ● a decision that a particular study is no longer necessary or viable; ● poor project performance, quality concerns, insufficient patient enrollment or investigator recruitment; or ● production problems resulting in shortages of the drug. If we lose clients, we may not be able to attract new ones, and if we lose individual projects, we may not be able to replace them. 4 If we fail to attract or retain qualified staff, our performance may suffer. Our business, future success and ability to continue to expand operations depends upon our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified professional, scientific and technical operating staff. We compete for qualified professionals with other Clinical Research Organisations “CROs”, temporary staffing agencies and the in-house departments of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. An inability to attract and retain a sufficient number of high calibre clinical research professionals (in particular, key personnel and executives) at an acceptable cost would impact our ability to provide our services, our future performace and results of operations. Our ability to perform clinical trials is dependent upon the ability to recruit suitable willing patients. The successful completion of clinical trials is dependent upon the ability to recruit suitable and willing patients on which to test the drug under study. The availability of suitable patients for enrollment on studies is dependent upon many factors including, amongst others, the size of the patient population, the design of the study protocol, eligibility criteria, the referral practices of physicians, the perceived risks and benefits of the drug under study and the availability of alternative medication, including medication undergoing separate clinical trial. Insufficient or inappropriate patient enrollment may result in the termination or delay of a study which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our ability to perform clinical trials is dependent upon our ability to recruit suitable willing investigators. We contract with physicians located in hospitals, clinics or other such sites, who serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials to test new drugs on their patients. Investigators supervise administration of the study drug to patients during the course of the clinical trial. The successful conduct of a clinical trial is dependent upon the integrity, experience and capabilities of the investigators conducting the trial. Insufficient investigator recruitment, which in turn may lead to insufficient or inappropriate patient enrolment, may result in the termination or delay of a study which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We rely on third parties for important products and services. We depend on certain third parties to provide us with products and services critical to our business. Such services include, amongst others, suppliers of drugs for patients participating in trials, suppliers of kits for use in in our central laboratory business, suppliers of reagents for use in our testing equipment and providers of maintenance services for our equipment. The failure of any of these third parties to adequately provide the required products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are highly dependent on information technology. If we fail to keep our systems up to date, or our systems fail or are unreliable, our operations may be adversely impacted. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology infrastructure and our management information systems. Our information technology infrastructure includes both third party solutions and applications designed and maintained internally. Since our Company operates on multiple platforms, the failure of our information technology infrastructure and/or our management information systems to perform could severely disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operation. In addition, our information technology infrastructure and/or our management information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from, amongst others, natural or man-made disasters, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or hackers, power loss, other computer systems, internet telecommunications or data network failures. Any such interruption could adversely affect our business and results of operations. A significant portion of our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential information, including client and personal confidential information. For example, through our Phase I business, we obtain and store personal health-related information of participating subjects. Our activities are subject to a risk of cyber security issues and/or attacks which could result in the disclosure or loss of confidential client or customer information, damage to our reputation, additional costs, regulatory penalties and financial losses. Despite our security measures, our computer systems, software and networks, or those of our suppliers, customers and so on, are vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information and personal health data), hardware malfunctions, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks and other events. These threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. 5 If we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes in the CRO industry, our products and services may become less competitive or even obsolete. This applies in particular to our ICONIK and Firecrest services. Also, changes to our operating systems, software or programs could adversely impact our business. We rely on our interactive response technologies to provide accurate information regarding the randomization of patients and the dosage required for patients enrolled in the trials. We develop and maintain computer run interactive response technologies to automatically manage the randomization of patients in trials, assign the study drug, and adjust the dosage when required for patients enrolled in trials we support. An error in the design, programming or validation of these systems could lead to inappropriate assignment or dosing of patients which could give rise to patient safety issues, incorrect dosing of patients, invalidation of the trial and/or liability claims against the Company among other things. Our operations might be impacted by a disruption to travel systems. Many of our operations rely on the availability of air or other transportation for the distribution of clinical trial materials, study samples and personnel. While we have developed contingency plans to minimize the impact of such events, a disruption to the availability of air transportation or other travel systems could have a material adverse impact on our activities and results of operations. We may make, or be unable to make, acquisitions in the future, which may lead to disruptions to our ongoing business. We have made a number of acquisitions and will continue to review new acquisition opportunities. If we are unable to identify suitable acquisition targets, consummate an acquisition or successfully integrate an acquired company or business, our business may be disrupted. The success of an acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to: ● assimilate the operations and services or products of the acquired company or business; ● integrate acquired personnel; ● retain and motivate key employees; ● retain customers; and ● minimize the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. In the event that the operations of an acquired company or business do not meet our performance expectations, we may have to restructure the acquired company or business or write-off the value of some or all of the assets of the acquired company or business. Serious adverse events can occur in Phase I trials. We conduct Early Phase and Proof of Principle clinical trials including first-in human and healthy volunteer studies. Although we have policies and procedures in place, due to the experimental nature of these studies, serious adverse events may arise. Risk Related to Our Industry We are dependent on the continued outsourcing of research and development by the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries. We are dependent upon the ability and willingness of the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies to continue to spend on research and development and to outsource the services that we provide. We are therefore subject to risks, uncertainties and trends that affect companies in these industries and that we do not control. We have benefited to date from the tendency of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies to outsource clinical research projects. Any downturn in these industries or reduction in spending or outsourcing could adversely affect our business. The following could each result in such a downturn: 6 ● if pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device companies expanded upon their in-house clinical or development capabilities, they would be less likely to utilize our services ● if governmental regulations were changed, it could affect the ability of our clients to operate profitably, which may lead to a decrease in research spending and therefore this could have a material adverse effect on our business ● if unfavourable economic conditions or disruptions in the credit and capital markets negatively impacted our clients Large pharmaceutical companies are increasingly consolidating their vendor base and entering strategic partnership arrangements with a limited number of outsource providers. Large pharmaceutical companies are continually seeking to drive efficiencies in their development processes to both reduce costs associated with the development of new drug candidates and accelerate time to market. As a result, large pharmaceutical companies in particular are increasingly looking to consolidate the number of outsource providers with which they engage, with many entering strategic partnership arrangements with a limited number of outsource providers. The failure to enter strategic partnership arrangements with customers or the loss of existing customers as a result of them entering strategic partnership arrangements with our competitors could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Increased collaboration amongst pharmaceutical companies in research and development activities may lead to fewer research opportunities. Certain pharmaceutical companies have begun to collaborate in seeking to develop new drug candidates. Increased collaboration amongst pharmaceutical companies may lead to fewer research opportunities, which in turn may lead to fewer outsource opportunities for companies within the CRO industry. A reduction in outsource opportunities as a result of this increased collaboration could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive and dynamic market. The CRO industry is highly competitive. In particular, we compete with other large global CROs for strategic relationships with large pharmaceutical companies. If we are unable to retain and renew existing strategic relationships and win new strategic relationships, there would be a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Similarly, we compete with other CROs for work which comes outside of these strategic relationships. The type and depth of services provided by CROs have changed in recent years. Failure to develop and market new services or expand existing service offerings could adversely effect our business and operations. Risk Related to Our Financial Results and Financial Position Our quarterly results are dependent upon a number of factors and can fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our results of operations in any quarter can fluctuate or differ from expected or forecasted results depending upon or due to, among other things, the number and scope of ongoing client projects, the commencement, postponement, variation cancellation or termination of projects in a quarter, the mix of revenue, cost overruns, employee hiring and other factors. Our net revenue in any period is directly related to the number and percentage of employees who were working on projects billable to the client during that period. We may be unable to compensate for periods of underutilization during one part of a fiscal period by augmenting revenues during another part of that period. We believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results. Also, if in future quarters, we are unable to achieve efficiencies and our expenses grow faster than our net revenues, our operating margins and profitability will be adversely impacted. 7 Our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. Our contracts with clients are sometimes denominated in currencies other than the currency in which we incur expenses related to such contracts. Where expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which contracts are priced, fluctuations in the relative value of those currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we are also subject to translation exposures as our consolidated financial results are presented in U.S. dollars, while the local results of certain of our subsidiaries are prepared in currencies other than U.S. dollars, including, amongst others, the pound sterling and the euro. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and those other currencies will affect the translation of a subsidiary’s financial results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter, which may affect our results of operations. Our quarterly effective tax rate has depended and will continue to depend on the geographic distribution of our taxable earnings amongst the multiple tax jurisdictions in which we operate and the tax law in those jurisdictions. Changes in the geographic mix of our results of operations amongst these jurisdictions may have a significant impact on our effective tax rate from quarter to quarter. Changes in tax law in one or more jurisdictions could also have a significant impact on our tax rate and results of operations. In addition, as we operate in multiple tax jurisdictions, we may be subject to audits in certain jurisdictions. These audits may involve complex issues which could require an extended period of time for resolution. The resolution of audit issues may lead to differences which could have a significant impact on our effective tax rate. Our backlog may not convert to net revenue and the rate of conversion may slow. Our backlog consists of potential net revenue yet to be earned from projects awarded by clients. Our backlog at any date is not necessarily a meaningful predictor of future results, due to the potential for the cancellation or delay of projects included in the backlog. No assurances can be given that we will be able to realize this backlog as net revenue. A failure to realize backlog as net revenue could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, as the length and complexity of projects underlying our backlog increases, the rate at which backlog converts to net revenue may be slower than in the past. A significant reduction in the rate at which backlog converts to net revenue could have a material impact on our results of operations. Significant changes from our estimates of contingent consideration payable on acquisitions could have a serious adverse impact on our results of operations. We have made a number of acquisitions in the past and will continue to review new acquisition opportunities. The cost of many of these acquisitions includes a portion which is contingent upon certain future events, such as the achievement of a particular revenue or earnings target. Where an acquisition agreement provides for such additional consideration, the amount of the estimated additional consideration is recognized at the acquisition date fair value. Any changes to this estimate in subsequent periods will depend on the classification of the contingent consideration. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity it shall not be re-measured and the settlement shall be accounted for within equity. If the contingent consideration is classified as an asset or liability any adjustments will be accounted for through the consolidated statement of operations or other comprehensive income depending on whether the asset or liability is considered a financial instrument. Significant estimates and judgements are required in estimating the acquisition date fair value of the additional consideration. Changes in business conditions or the performance of the acquired business could lead to a significant change between our estimate of the acquisition date fair value and amounts payable which could have a significant impact on our results of operations. The Company is exposed to various risks in relation to our cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. The Company’s treasury function actively manages our available cash resources and invests significant cash balances in various financial institutions to try to ensure optimum returns for our surplus cash balances. These balances are classified as cash and cash equivalents or short term investments depending on the maturity of the related investment. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less. Short term investments comprise highly liquid investments with maturities of greater than three months and minimum “A-” rated fixed and floating rate securities. 8 Given the global nature of our business, we are exposed to various risks in relation to these balances including liquidity risk, credit risk associated with the counterparties with which we invest, interest rate risk on floating rate securities, sovereign risk (our principal sovereign risk relates to investments in U.S. Treasury funds), and other factors. Although we have not recognized any significant losses to date on our cash and cash equivalents or short term investments, any significant declines in their market values could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and operating results. Risk Related to Political, Legal or Regulatory Environment We may lose business opportunities as a result of health care reform and the expansion of managed care organizations. Numerous governments, including the U.S. government and governments outside of the U.S., have undertaken efforts to control growing health care costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and drug companies. If these efforts are successful, pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies may react by spending less on research and development and therefore this could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition to healthcare reform proposals, the expansion of managed care organizations in the healthcare market may result in reduced spending on research and development. Managed care organizations' efforts to cut costs by limiting expenditures on pharmaceuticals and medical devices could result in pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies spending less on research and development. If this were to occur, we would have fewer business opportunities and our revenues could decrease, possibly materially. We may lose business as a result of changes in the regulatory environment. Various regulatory bodies throughout the world may enact legislation, rules and guidance which could introduce changes to the regulatory environment for drug development and research. The adoption and implementation of such legislation, rules and guidance is difficult to predict and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to comply with the regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other regulatory authorities could result in substantial penalties and/or loss of business. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and other regulatory authorities inspect us from time to time to ensure that we comply with their regulations and guidelines, including environmental and health and safety matters. We must comply with the applicable regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials in all countries in which we operate. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements we could suffer some or all of: ● termination of or delay in any research; ● disqualification of data; ● denial of the right to conduct business; ● criminal penalties; ● other enforcement actions; ● loss of clients and/or business; and ● litigation from clients and resulting material penalties, damages and costs. 9 We are subject to political, regulatory, operational and legal risks associated with our international operations. We are one of a small group of organizations with the capability and expertise to conduct clinical trials on a global basis. We believe that this capability to provide our services globally in most major and developing pharmaceutical markets enhances our ability to compete for new business from large multinational pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. We have expanded geographically in the past and intend to continue expanding in regions that have the potential to increase our client base or increase our investigator and patient populations. We expect that revenues earned in emerging markets will continue to account for an increasing portion of our total revenues. However, emerging market operations may present several risks, including civil disturbances, health concerns, cultural differences such as employment, regulatory and business practices, volatility in gross domestic product, economic and governmental instability, the potential for nationalization of private assets and the imposition of exchange controls. In addition, operating globally means the Company faces the challenges associated with coordinating its services across different countries, time zones and cultures. Changes in the political and regulatory environment in the international markets in which we operate such as price or exchange controls could impact our revenue and profitability, and could lead to penalties, sanctions and reputational damages if we are not compliant with those regulations. Political uncertainty and a lack of institutional continuity in some of the emerging and developing countries in which we operate could affect the orderly operation of markets in these economies. In addition, in countries with a large and complicated structure of government and administration, national, regional, local and other governmental bodies may issue inconsistent decisions and opinions that could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and/or have a material adverse effect on our business. Uncertainty of the legal environment in some emerging countries could also limit our ability to enforce our rights. In certain emerging and developing countries we enjoy less comprehensive protection for some of our rights, including intellectual property rights, which could undermine our competitive position. Finally, we operate in some countries where national laws may require not only proper books and records, but also sufficient controls, policies and processes to ensure business is conducted without the influence of bribery and corruption. Given the high level of complexity of some of these laws and the large number of employees and contractors we have in many jurisdictions, there is a risk that some provisions may inadvertently be breached by the Company, for example through negligent behavior of individual employees, or failure to comply with certain formal documentation requirements or otherwise. Any violation of these laws or allegations of such violations, whether merited or not, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. If any of the above risks or similar risks associated with our international operations were to materialize, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Data Privacy Current and proposed laws and regulations relating to the confidentiality of personal data of patients and others could limit the scope of our services, expose us to increased risk and liability and increase the cost of doing business. Liability claims brought against us could result in payment of substantial damages to plaintiffs and decrease our profitability. Customer Claims If we breach the terms of an agreement with a client (for example if we fail to comply with the agreement, all applicable regulations or Good Clinical Practice) this could result in claims against us for substantial damages which could have a material adverse effect on our business. As we are a “people business” in that we provide staff to provide our services in hospitals and other sites, there is a risk that our management, quality and control structures fail to quickly detect should one or more employees or contractors fail to comply with all applicable regulations and Good Clinical Practice and thereby expose us to the risk of claims by clients. 10 Claims relating to Investigators We contract with physicians who serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials to test new drugs on their patients. This testing creates the risk of liability for personal injury to or death of the patients. Although investigators are generally required by law to maintain their own liability insurance, we could be named in lawsuits and incur expenses arising from any professional malpractice or other actions against the investigators with whom we contract. Indemnification from Clients Indemnifications provided by our clients against the risk of liability for personal injury to or death of the patients arising from the study drug vary from client to client and from trial to trial and may not be sufficient in scope or amount or the client may not have the financial ability to fulfill their indemnification obligations. Furthermore, we would be liable for our own negligence and negligence of our employees and such negligence could lead to litigation from clients. Insurance We maintain what we believe is an appropriate level of worldwide Professional Liability/Error and Omissions Insurance. We may in the future be unable to maintain or continue our current insurance coverage on the same or similar terms. If we are liable for a claim or settlement that is beyond the level of insurance coverage, we may be responsible for paying all or part of any award or settlement amount. Also, the insurance policies contain exclusions which mean that the policy will not respond or provide cover in certain circumstances. Claims to Date To date, we have not been subject to any liability claims that are expected to have a material effect on our business; however, there can be no assurance that we will not become subject to such claims in the future or that such claims will not have a material effect on our business. Risk Related to Our Common Stock Volatility in the market price of our common stock could lead to losses by investors. The market price of our common stock has experienced volatility in the past and may experience volatility in the future which could lead to losses for investors. Factors impacting volatility in the market price of our common stock include, amongst others, our results of operations, analyst expectations, developments impacting the industry or our competitors and general market and economic conditions. In addition, stock markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Future fluctuations in stock markets may lead to volatility in the market price of our common stock which could lead to losses by investors. 11 