Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contains a discussion of some of the factors and risks that could contribute to those differences. Item 1. Business General Tweeter is a national specialty consumer electronics retailer providing audio and video solutions for the home and mobile environment. We believe that we can apply our expertise to provide “home and mobile entertainment made easy” for our customers. As of September 30, 2005, we operated 159 stores in 22 states under the Tweeter, Sound Advice, hifi buys, Showcase Home Entertainment and Hillcrest High Fidelity names. Our stores are located in the following markets: New England, the Mid-Atlantic, the Southeast (including Florida), Texas, Chicago, Southern California, Phoenix, and Las Vegas. We operate in a single business segment of retailing audio, video and mobile consumer electronics products. Our stores feature a selection of quality home and mobile audio and video products including cutting edge HDTV plasma, LCD and rear-projection television sets, home theatre video and audio solutions, home theater furniture, DVD players and recorders, surround sound systems, audio components, digital video satellite systems, satellite radios, personal video recorders and digital entertainment centers. We differentiate ourselves by focusing on consumers who seek audio and video products with advanced features, functionality and performance. These products tend to be more expensive within their category of products and will often have newer or more advanced technology. We have created an inviting retail environment in each store with specially designed notional spaces, allowing our customers to visualize the technology in a more natural home setting. Our stores average approximately 11,100 square feet and are staffed with highly trained sales and installation professionals. Our goal is to ensure that each customer receives the best possible experience through their entire purchase and installation process. We believe this commitment to service, along with our competitive prices, will build customer loyalty and brand awareness. In September 2002, we re-launched the Tweeter website (www.tweeter.com) to market and sell consumer electronics over the Internet. The tweeter.com site is designed to mirror the in-store experience as well as the look and feel of its brick-and-mortar counterparts. Trade names. We currently operate under several trade names. We operate the large majority (118) of our stores as Tweeter stores. We operate 24 stores in Florida as Sound Advice stores, 11 stores in the Southeast as hifi buys stores, four stores in Arizona as Showcase Home Entertainment stores and two stores in Dallas as Hillcrest High Fidelity stores. As part of our store closing program, described below, in 2005 we closed both of our remaining Bang & Olufsen stores and exited that brand name. We have registered the “Tweeter etc.” service mark with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Its registration number is 2097801 and the renewal due date is September 16, 2007. We have also registered the “AVi.d. Member”, “Slamfest”, “Wise Buys” and “Picture Perfect” service marks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We have not registered “hifi buys”, “Sound Advice” and some of our other service marks. We are aware that other consumer electronics retailers use the name hifi buys and Sound Advice. We have submitted applications for registration of some of our other service marks, which applications are currently pending. We may be unable to successfully register such service marks. In addition our service marks, whether registered or unregistered, and patents may not be effective to protect our intellectual property rights, and infringement or invalidity claims may be asserted by third parties in the future. 2 Table of Contents Competition. We are a relatively small player in the U.S. consumer electronics market. According to the Consumer Electronics Association, consumer electronics sales were $112.9 billion in 2004. Over 50% of this total was for consumer electronics products that we do not sell, such as personal computers and related equipment. Accordingly, with annual revenue in calendar year 2004 of $777.2 million, we account for less than 2% of the audio and video business in which we compete. Several large players, including Best Buy, Circuit City, Sears and Wal-Mart, dominate the industry and have significantly greater resources than we have. We do not compete with these larger players in all categories, but there is some overlap between our products. Typically, the overlap includes the higher-end (more sophisticated, with more features and options) of the larger players’ products and the lower end (more entry level, with fewer features and options) of our products. One advantage we believe we have over the larger players is the ability to provide service to our customers, because we believe that the larger players often do not offer as high a level of customer service as we do. Seasonality. Our business is subject to seasonal variations. The table below lists the percentage of annual revenue generated in each of our fiscal quarters for the last two fiscal years. Percentage of Annual Revenue Three Months Ended December 31 March 31 June 30 September 30 Fiscal 2004 32.2 % 23.9 % 21.3 % 22.6 % Fiscal 2005 32.4 % 22.9 % 21.0 % 23.7 % Due to the importance of the Christmas holiday shopping season, our revenues generally are highest during the fiscal quarter ending December 31. Any factor tending to adversely affect this season could have a significant impact on our revenue and profitability. Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, including the timing of new store openings and acquisitions, and unexpected changes in volume-related rebates or changes in cooperative advertising policies from suppliers. In addition, operating results may be negatively affected by increases in merchandise costs, price reductions we institute in response to competitive factors and unfavorable local, regional or national economic developments that result in reduced consumer spending. Purchases and Returns. Like most of our competitors in the consumer electronics retail industry, we allow our customers to return products within a specified amount of time from the initial retail sale. This is typically 30 days, although this can vary for some product categories such as speakers, where we have a trade up policy available. We also offer extended payment terms and other promotional offers as an inducement to purchase. We partner with GE Money Bank to run our private label credit card. GE Money Bank bears all credit risk under the terms of this agreement. Business Strategy Our goal is to integrate consumer electronics into our customer’s life; to deliver entertainment solutions that offer “everything that they want and all that they need.” This aligns our strategy with our marketing slogan: “Home and mobile entertainment made easy.” The key elements of our business strategy are as follows: Extensive Selection of Mid- to High-End Home and Mobile Products. We concentrate on delivering our customers a complete range of home and mobile consumer electronics products. This focus differentiates us from larger format superstores and mass merchandisers, who offer a broad array of consumer electronics and non-electronics products with an emphasis on products priced at introductory price levels. Our emphasis on mid- to higher-end products positions us attractively to manufacturers seeking to sell more advanced or limited distribution products as part of their distribution strategy. Our salespeople are trained to educate our customers about new technologies, in the simplest possible terms. As a result of our mid- to higher-end product focus, a historical early adopter customer base and our extensively trained sales force, we are often among the earliest retailers to offer new product innovations. Tweeter has a long tradition of catering to the audio and/or video enthusiast, and over the last 33 years we have introduced many new technologies to the 3 Table of Contents marketplace. We were among the first retailers to offer flat panel plasma and LCD televisions, DVD players, CD players, camcorders and VCRs. We will often hold a market share in new technology that is disproportionately large compared to our less than 2% share of audio and video consumer electronics retailing overall. Our share of these new and generally expensive technologies declines as the retail prices decrease and the technology becomes more familiar to a mainstream customer. In addition, we believe that our focused product offering allows for higher gross margin opportunities, appeals to a more service-conscious consumer and results in enhanced brand awareness of our regional names among members of our targeted customer group. In-Home Services Business. As consumer electronics products have become more sophisticated and complex, we are aware of a corresponding tendency for customers to be deterred from purchasing integrated audio/video systems because of the perceived difficulty in setting the systems up properly in their homes. We not only offer customers a broad home entertainment package, we also have a large team of in-home installation experts who can install the solution in the customer’s home. Exceptional Customer Service. We believe that the quality and knowledge of our sales associates is critical to our success and represents a significant competitive advantage. Our relationship-selling model encourages sales associates to promote a comfortable, trusting, low-pressure environment. We provide new sales associates with intensive classroom training and all sales associates receive ongoing training, both at the store and at our regional training centers. Our sales force receives technical product and sales training prior to our introduction of significant new products. We believe that our superior customer service has enabled us to engender long-term customer loyalty. Dynamic, Inviting Stores. Our stores display products in a dynamic and inviting setting intended to encourage the customer to view and hear products in sound rooms and other notional spaces architecturally and acoustically designed to simulate the customer’s home or mobile environment. The store prototype blends a colorful, comfortable lifestyle environment, with innovative and interactive product displays that enable customers to audition and compare a sample of products. Each store contains a flat panel technology showcase, which displays an extensive selection of plasma, LCD and related products, and every store contains a home theatre vignette, which showcases our home theater products. Everyday Competitive Pricing. We utilize an “everyday competitive pricing” strategy with fixed prices clearly marked on our products. Store managers regularly visit local competitors to ensure that our pricing remains competitive within the store’s local market. Growth Strategy Our current growth strategy is to capitalize on new technologies and home installation services to drive comparable store sales. A store is included as a comparable store after it has been in operation for 12 full months from the date of opening, acquisition, remodeling or relocation. When products such as CD players, DVD players, plasma televisions, digital televisions, mobile video and satellite radio were first introduced, we were one of the first retailers to sell these products. We expect that we will continue to be among the first retailers to offer new consumer electronics products as they are developed, and continue to put considerable effort into having a knowledgeable sales team able to explain new technologies to customers. We believe that as a result we will continue to attract buyers who wish to be “early adopters” of new products. 4 Table of Contents New Stores. We intend to open new stores and relocate a limited number of stores within existing markets in order to increase penetration and leverage regional advertising, distribution, and operating efficiencies. During fiscal 2005, we opened five stores and closed 22 stores in the following markets: Stores Market Opened Closed Las Vegas 1 — Texas 1 1 Mid Atlantic 1 2 Southern California 1 3 Southeast 1 7 Phoenix — 1 Chicago — 2 Florida — 6 Total 5 22 Store closing program. In April 2005 we announced a plan to close 19 stores, which comprised about 11% of our total number of stores. These stores generated less than 5% of our gross revenue but were responsible for nearly one-third of our operating loss over the preceding 12-month period. Six of the stores were in stand-alone markets and, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, we classified the operating results of these stores as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Prior year information has been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. The remaining 13 stores were deemed part of continuing operations, and the costs associated with their closing were treated as a restructuring charge. Charges to discontinued operations associated with the store closing program totaled $6.3 million in 2005, while the restructuring charges associated with the remaining stores not classified in discontinued operations totaled $16.5 million. As of September 30, 2005, we had closed 18 stores and we closed the one remaining store on October 30, 2005. As of December 29, 2005, we had completed negotiations on 12 lease termination agreements or sublet agreements, were in the process of completing negotiations on two locations and had five locations remaining to be negotiated and finalized. We believe that our restructuring charge is adequate to cover costs associated with the remaining lease terminations and professional fees. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 we closed or committed to close eight stores, five of which were closed as of September 30, 2004 and three of which were closed during the first quarter of fiscal 2005. These eight stores are reported in discontinued operations along with the six stores mentioned above. The incremental cost related to these store closings amounted to $166,000 in fiscal 2005 and $560,000 in fiscal 2004. Store Format and Operations As of September 30, 2005, we operated 159 stores, consisting of 118 Tweeter stores in New England, the Mid-Atlantic, the Southeast, Texas, Southern California, the greater Chicago area and Las Vegas; 24 Sound Advice stores in Florida; 11 hifi buys stores in the Southeast; four Showcase Home Entertainment stores in Phoenix, Arizona and two Hillcrest stores in Dallas, Texas. While our stores vary in size, the average is 11,100 square feet, with approximately 70% of our square footage devoted to selling space. Our store concept combines the comfort of the home environment with practical displays, enabling consumers to sample and compare the features and functions of products in various combinations. Unlike many of our competitors’ stores, which contain large, open spaces where many different audio and video products are displayed, our stores feature individual sound rooms. The sound rooms architecturally and acoustically resemble a home environment to enable the customer to see and hear how products will perform at home. These sound rooms allow the customer to listen to and compare various combinations of receivers, 5 Table of Contents CD and DVD players and speakers. In addition, each store contains a flat panel technology showcase, which displays an extensive selection of plasma, LCD and related video products, and every store contains home theatre vignettes, which showcases our home theater products. The majority of our stores have areas that feature state-of-the-art audio and video mobile systems, which serve to exhibit our mobile installation capabilities. Most stores provide mobile systems installation through on-premises installation bays. Stores are typically staffed with a general sales manager, an assistant sales manager, an operations manager, approximately 12 sales associates and mobile electronics installers. Some associates specialize in either in-home or mobile systems. We provide new sales associates with intensive classroom training and all sales associates receive ongoing training, both at the store and at the regional training centers. The sales force receives technical product and sales training prior to the introduction of significant new products. All stores are open seven days a week. Most of our store managers are compensated through base pay, commissions and monthly bonuses based on store performance. Store managers can earn a substantial portion of their annual compensation through such bonuses. Sales associates are compensated through a commission program that is based on the revenue and gross margins of products they have sold. Additionally, our other operations include a corporate sales division, which markets and sells to businesses, institutions and other organizations, and an Internet-based business, whose website is located at www.tweeter.com. Merchandise Our stores feature home audio systems and components, mobile audio and video systems, video products such as flat-panel plasma and LCD televisions, digital projection and tube televisions, digital satellite systems, digital video recorders, DVD players and other consumer electronics products such as wireless media devices, digital media players, home audio speakers, stereo and surround sound receivers and portable audio equipment. We offer home and mobile stereo installation services and provide warranty and non-warranty repair services through all of our stores. Our in-home installation business provides design, installation and educational services in connection with new construction and home renovations, as well as for existing homes. Products provided by our in-home installation group include whole-house music systems, home theatre systems, satellite TV, Internet access systems, and touch screen controls. Our emphasis on mid- to high-end products enables us to offer limited distribution products and to be among the earliest retailers to offer new product innovations on behalf of manufacturers. We stock products from many suppliers, including, Alpine, Apple Computer, Bose, Boston Acoustics, Clarion, Denon, Focal, Krell, Mirage, Martin Logan, Mitsubishi, Panasonic, Philips, Pioneer, Polk, Samsung, Sapphire, Sharp, Sony, Tivoli, Velodyne and Yamaha. We seek to manage our product mix to maximize gross margin performance and inventory turns. Historically, video products have yielded lower gross margin than audio products. Total sales of video products have increased at rates faster than the increases in audio product sales during the last several years as a result of the increased customer interest in big screen televisions. Accordingly, we have enhanced our in-home installation business to increase sales of higher margin audio products and in-home services. The strategy involves training and incentive programs for sales associates to work with customers to demonstrate audio products that enhance the performance of the video products they are purchasing, so that a customer purchasing a video product is more likely to purchase an audio product as well. 6 Table of Contents The table below lists the approximate percentage of revenue for each of our primary product categories for our fiscal years ended September 30, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. The percentage of revenue represented by each product category may be affected by, among other factors, competition, economic conditions, consumer trends, the introduction of new products into the market, changes in our product mix, and the timing of marketing events. The historical percentages listed below may not be indicative of revenue percentages for future periods: Percentage of Revenue by Product Years Ended September 30, Product Category 2003 2004 2005 Video(1) 55 % 57 % 55 % Audio(2) 22 % 19 % 18 % Mobile(3) 12 % 11 % 10 % Home installation labor 3 % 4 % 5 % All other(4) 8 % 9 % 12 % (1) Includes flat-panel televisions, projection televisions, furniture, DVD recorders & players, television monitors, and other video categories. (2) Includes speakers, receivers, home theater and other audio categories. (3) Includes mobile multimedia devices, mobile installation labor, car speakers, car decks and other mobile categories. (4) Includes power accessories and cables, extended warranties, service labor and parts, home installation parts and other miscellaneous categories. Purchasing and Inventory Our purchasing and inventory control functions are based out of our corporate offices in Canton, Massachusetts. The purchasing decisions are made by our buying team, which has primary responsibility for product selection, stocking levels and pricing. Purchasing decisions are facilitated by our information systems, which analyze stocking levels and product sell-through. The purchasing group continuously reviews new and existing products with a view towards maintaining a wide range of high quality, brand-name consumer electronics products within the product mix. In order to remain current with new and developing products, we regularly host presentations by our major suppliers. In recent years, we have traveled to the Far East to assist in product development for our class of products. In addition to making direct purchases, we are a member of the Progressive Retailers Organization (“PRO”) group, a volume-buying group of specialty electronics retailers across the country. This affiliation often provides us with the opportunities to obtain additional supplier rebates, product discounts and promotional products. We are not obligated to make purchases through PRO. Our Chairman also serves on the Board of Directors of PRO. We source products from many suppliers. Our largest supplier and our ten largest suppliers, ranked by purchasing volume, represented 19% and 78%, respectively, of our total purchases in fiscal 2005. We do not maintain long-term commitments or exclusive contracts with any particular supplier, but instead consider numerous factors, including price, credit terms, distribution, quality and compatibility within the existing product mix in making our purchasing decisions. We utilize an automatic replenishment system for store inventory, maintaining stock levels and minimizing total dollars invested in inventory. We believe that our relationships with our large suppliers are excellent and that our focused merchandising and high degree of customer service make us an important distribution channel, particularly for the introduction of new products. 7 Table of Contents We distribute products to our stores through our regional distribution centers. The following table lists each distribution center, the region it serves and the square footage of the facility. Distribution Center Locations Market Served Sq. Ft. Canton, Massachusetts New England 90,500 King of Prussia, Pennsylvania Mid-Atlantic 50,000 Atlanta, Georgia Southeast 80,800 Charlotte, North Carolina Southeast 37,000 Houston, Texas Houston and Austin 64,000 Dallas, Texas Dallas 8,300 San Diego, California Southern California and Las Vegas 106,300 Chicago, Illinois Illinois 122,100 Pembroke Park, Florida(1) Florida 139,900 Phoenix, Arizona Phoenix 17,200 Total 716,100 (1) Sq. ft. includes small facilities in St. Petersburg, Orlando and Jacksonville, Florida. We also have short-term arrangements to lease additional space at other facilities to meet seasonal needs. We believe that these distribution facilities are sufficient to accommodate any expansion in these markets through at least the year 2007. Advertising and Marketing We target consumers seeking informed advice, products and services that result in the creation, integration and installation of home and mobile entertainment solutions. We began a shift in media strategy in fiscal 2004 and are now utilizing primarily electronic media and direct marketing to reach qualified customers and prospects. This is in lieu of newspaper ads and inserts, which are showing dramatic categorical declines as advertisers and readers move to the Internet and the variety offered by cable television. The direct marketing program consists of catalogs and direct mail to provide education on new technologies and to convey timely offers. In fiscal 2004 we allocated less than one-third of our overall advertising budget to broadcast media. In fiscal 2005 we increased this amount to over 50%. Radio advertisements are running in markets representing approximately 80% of retail store sales. The specific allocation of advertising dollars among the various types of advertising media is reviewed from time to time by management and, if necessary, adjusted to reflect our assessment of advertising results and market conditions. Providing competitive product pricing is a critical component of our marketing and advertising strategy. Store managers regularly visit the local competition to ensure that their store’s pricing remains competitive. This is supported by a 60-day price protection guarantee. We also offer financing to our customers through GE Money Bank and provide to our customers an annual calendar of available Tweeter and manufacturer finance offers. Site Selection Our stores average approximately 11,100 square feet and are typically located in freestanding buildings or strip shopping centers within high traffic shopping areas. New store sites are selected on the basis of several factors, including physical location, demographic characteristics of the local market, proximity to superstore competitors, access to highways or other major roadways and available lease terms. We look for co-tenants that are likely to draw customers whom we would otherwise target within the site’s relevant market and believe that the proximity of superstore competitors is, on balance, a positive factor due to increased customer traffic. We lease all of our stores. 8 Table of Contents Information Systems We utilize a sophisticated, fully integrated mainframe based management information system for recording point-of-sale transactions, managing inventory and determining commission-based wages. Our system updates after every transaction and is accessible on a real time basis to management, sales associates and product buyers. Extensive sales reporting and sales tracking are provided real time on screen to store managers and individual sales associates. They use the system to track category sales and benchmark key sales data. This system enables management and store managers to review sales volume, gross margin and product mix on a per store or per sales associate basis, allows for the viewing of open orders, inventory value and mix and tracks sales by product category, by sales associate and by store. We provide ongoing training and support in the use of this system. In May 2005, we implemented a new general ledger and accounts payable system. This system interfaces with and draws data from our point-of-sale system. Employees As of September 30, 2005, we had 3,359 employees, consisting of 3,298 full-time and 61 part-time employees. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and we believe our relations with our employees are good. Tweeter.com Website Our commercial website address is www.tweeter.com. Our investor relations website is www.twtr.com. We make our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 available on our www.twtr.com website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such documents with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. RISK FACTORS The value of an investment in our company will be subject to the significant risks inherent in our business. Investors should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below. This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements regarding our performance, strategy, plans, objectives, expectations, beliefs and intentions. The actual outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements could differ materially from our expectations. The following is a discussion of some of the factors and risks that could contribute to those differences. We face intense competition that could reduce our market share. We compete against a diverse group of retailers, including several national and regional large format merchandisers and superstores, such as Best Buy and Circuit City, which sell, among other products, audio and video consumer electronics products similar and often identical to those we sell. We also compete in particular markets with a substantial number of retailers that specialize in one or more types of consumer electronics products that we sell. Certain of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources than we have, which may increase their ability to purchase inventory at lower costs or to initiate and sustain predatory price competition. In addition, the large format stores are continuing to expand their geographic markets, and this expansion may increase price competition within those markets. We have incurred losses from continuing operations for the last four years and those losses could continue in the future. We have experienced losses from continuing operations for the last four years. Our net loss in 2005 amounted to $74.4 million and we used $26.7 million of cash to support operating activities. Despite efforts to improve our operations, we could incur substantial losses in the future. Our losses and the related use of cash 9 Table of Contents were funded, in part, by increased borrowings under our senior secured revolving credit facility and term loans. There can be no assurance that additional indebtedness will be available to us at all or on acceptable terms. We may need additional capital and we may not be able to obtain it on acceptable terms, if at all. Financing for the opening and acquisition of new stores, as well as for the improvement of existing stores, may be in the form of debt or equity or both and may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We estimate that the average cash investment for capital expenditures required to open a store is approximately $1.4 million. The actual cost of opening a store may be significantly greater than such estimates, however, and we may need to seek additional debt and/or equity financing in order to fund our continued expansion through 2006 and beyond. We have opened some stores for as little as $500,000 and some for as much as $3.6 million. The differences in cost result from the specific circumstances relating to the store opening. In some cases, we lease stores in an existing building and incur costs for leasehold improvements to convert the space to our retail format. In other cases, we might enter into a ground lease where the site is a piece of land that has to be fully developed. In connection with some of these ground leases, we have built multi-tenant facilities in which we will only occupy one of the spaces and sublet the remaining space. Additional factors vary depending on the region in which a new store is being opened, and can therefore cause a corresponding region-to-region variation in the cost of opening a new store, including the following: • Labor cost, regional cost of living, and the use of union or non-union labor; • Material cost (which can vary by state and region); and • General contractors’ fees and volume benefits (e.g., a contractor building more than one store). In addition, our ability to incur additional indebtedness or issue equity or debt securities could be limited by covenants in present and future loan agreements and debt instruments. Our success depends on our ability to increase sales in our existing stores. We may not be able to do so. Our continued growth depends on our ability to increase sales in our existing stores. The opening of additional stores in an existing market could result in lower net sales at our existing stores in that market. Our ability to increase sales in existing stores may also be affected by: • Our success in attracting customers into our stores; • Not maintaining fully staffed and trained employees; • Our inability to keep stores stocked with the correct merchandise; and • Our ability to choose the correct mix of products to sell. Our comparable sales results may fluctuate significantly. “Comparable store sales” is a term we use to compare the year over year sales performance of our stores. A store is included in the comparable store sales base after it is in operation for 12 full months. An acquired store is included after 12 full months from the date of acquisition. In addition, comparable store sales include Internet-originated sales. Remodeled or relocated stores are excluded from the comparable store base until they have completed 12 full months of operation from the date the remodeling was completed or the store re-opened after relocation. In 2005 we implemented a store closing program. We removed those closing stores from the comparable store sales base in May after we determined that they would close. Stores that are part of discontinued operations are also excluded from the comparable store sales base. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable store sales results, including, among other factors: • Competition: well-established competitors with an abundance of resources may enter markets in which stores are located and provide products at lower prices. This competition may cause sales to decline from prior year sales; 10 Table of Contents • General regional and national economic conditions: severe regional weather conditions such as floods, hurricanes or tornados, economic dislocations such as the recent sharp rise in gasoline and home-heating fuel prices, or regional business crises causing large layoffs or work stoppages may cause regional comparable store sales declines, while exceptional regional business success may cause comparable store sales increases. In addition, national economic conditions, such as a recession, may cause comparable store sales declines while favorable economic events, such as a stock market surge, may cause comparable store sales increases; • Consumer trends: if consumer trends shift to a new product technology, we will likely see an increase in comparable store sales; • Changes in our product mix: if we change our product mix to add products, eliminate products or change our emphasis on certain products, comparable store sales will be affected by such changes; • Timing of promotional events: if a promotional event held one year is not held the following year, then comparable store sales may be lower in the following year; and • New product introductions: new product introductions may increase comparable store sales by providing customers with an incentive to replace their existing systems. New product introductions may cause comparable store sales to decrease, however, if the product is a lower-priced item that replaces a higher priced product. Recent economic conditions make forecasting comparable store sales particularly difficult. Comparable store sales may decrease in the future. Changes in our comparable store sales results could cause the price of our common stock and profitability to fluctuate substantially. We may not be able to open new stores and, even if we do open new stores, we may not be able to operate those stores profitably. While the opening of new stores has slowed considerably, we expect to continue to open new stores from time to time. The opening of additional stores in new geographical markets could present competitive and merchandising challenges different from those we currently or previously faced within our existing geographic markets. In addition, we may incur higher costs related to advertising, administration and distribution as we enter new markets. There are a number of factors that could affect our ability to open or acquire new stores. These factors also affect the ability of any newly opened or acquired stores to achieve sales and profitability levels comparable with our existing stores, or to become profitable at all. These factors include: • The identification and acquisition of suitable sites and the negotiation of acceptable leases for such sites; • The obtaining of governmental and other third-party consents, permits and licenses needed to operate such additional sites; • The hiring, training and retention of skilled personnel; • The availability of adequate management and financial resources; • The adaptation of our distribution and other operational and management systems to an expanded network of stores; • The ability and willingness of suppliers to supply products on a timely basis at competitive prices; and • Continued consumer demand for our products at levels that can support acceptable profit margins. 11 Table of Contents We depend on key personnel and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives. Our success depends upon the active involvement of our senior management personnel, particularly Samuel Bloomberg, Chairman of the Board, Joseph McGuire, President and Chief Executive Officer, Philo Pappas, Senior Vice President and Chief Merchandising Officer, Mark Richardson, Senior Vice President of Marketing, and Judy Quye, Senior Vice President of Sales, Operations and Installation Services. The loss of the full-time services of Messrs. Bloomberg, McGuire, Pappas, Richardson, Ms. Quye, or other members of senior management could severely disrupt our business, as we may not be able to replace them. We have employment or severance agreements with Messrs. Bloomberg, McGuire, Pappas and Ms. Quye. We have no other employment agreements with any members of our senior management team. Our Board of Directors appointed Mr. Paul Burmeister to serve as interim Chief Financial Officer on July 6, 2005, replacing Mr. McGuire, who had been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and who was then serving as interim Chief Executive Officer. Our business is subject to quarterly fluctuations and seasonality. Seasonal shopping patterns affect our business. The fourth calendar quarter, which is our first fiscal quarter and which includes the Christmas holiday shopping season, has historically contributed, and is expected to continue to contribute, a significant portion of our total revenue. As a result, any factors negatively affecting us during this time of year, including adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, would have a materially adverse impact on our revenue and profitability for the entire year. More generally, our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate based upon such factors as: • The amount of net sales contributed by our stores; • The mix of consumer electronics products sold in our stores; • Profitability of sales of particular products; • Changes in volume-rebates from manufacturers; • Local, regional, and national economic factors, such as the price of gasoline and the price of home-heating fuels; and • Local weather conditions, such as hurricanes and snow storms, which result in the closure of many stores on certain days. We may not be able to anticipate and respond to changes in consumer demand, preference and patterns. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to consumer demand and preferences regarding audio and video consumer electronics products and changes in consumer demand and preferences. Consumer spending patterns, particularly discretionary spending for products such as those we sell, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the periodic introduction and availability of new products and technologies at price levels that generate wide consumer interest stimulate the demand for audio and video consumer electronics products. Also, many products that incorporate the newest technologies are subject to significant technological and pricing limitations and to the actions and cooperation of third parties such as television broadcasters. It is possible that these products or other new products will never achieve widespread consumer acceptance. Furthermore, the introduction or expected introduction of new products or technologies may depress sales of existing products and technologies. Significant deviations from the projected demand for products we sell would result in lost sales or lower margins due to the need to mark down excess inventory. 12 Table of Contents If any of our relationships with our key suppliers are terminated, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. The success of our business and growth strategy depends to a significant degree upon our suppliers, particularly our brand-name suppliers of audio and video equipment. We do not have any supply agreements or exclusive arrangements with any suppliers. We typically order our inventory through the issuance of individual purchase orders to suppliers. In addition, we rely heavily on a relatively small number of suppliers. Our largest supplier and our ten largest suppliers, ranked by purchasing volume, represented 19% and 78%, respectively, of our total purchases in fiscal 2005. The loss of any of these key suppliers could affect our business, as we may not be able to find suitable replacements. Suppliers may not be willing to supply products at acceptable prices. It is possible that we will be unable to acquire sufficient quantities or an appropriate mix of products at acceptable prices. Specifically, our ability to establish additional stores in existing markets and to penetrate new markets depends, to a significant extent, on the willingness and ability of suppliers to supply inventory at acceptable prices, and suppliers may not be willing or able to do so. Our service marks and patents may not be effective to protect our intellectual property rights. Our “Tweeter etc.,” “AVi.d. Member,” “Slamfest,” “Wise Buys” and “Picture Perfect” service marks have been registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We have not registered “hifi buys,” “Sound Advice” and some of our other service marks. We are aware that other consumer electronics retailers use the name “hifi buys” and “Sound Advice.” We have submitted applications for registration of some of our other service marks, which applications are currently pending. We may be unable to successfully register such service marks. In addition our service marks, whether registered or unregistered, and patents may not be effective to protect our intellectual property rights, and infringement or invalidity claims may be asserted by third parties in the future. Anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation and our shareholders’ rights plan could delay or deter a change in control. Our corporate charter and by-laws, as well as certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, contain provisions that may deter, discourage or make more difficult a change in control of the Company, even if such a change in control would be in the interest of a significant number of our stockholders or if a change in control would provide stockholders with a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. For example, our charter authorizes our Board of Directors to issue one or more classes of preferred stock, having such designations, rights and preferences as they determine. Our stockholders have no right to take action by written consent and may not call special meetings of stockholders. Any amendment of the by-laws by the stockholders or certain provisions of the charter requires the affirmative vote of at least 75% of the shares of voting stock then outstanding. Our charter also provides for the staggered election of directors to serve for one, two and three-year terms, and for successive three-year terms thereafter, subject to removal only for cause upon the vote of not less than 75% of the shares of common stock represented at a stockholders’ meeting. In addition, under the terms of our shareholders’ rights plan, in general, if a person or group acquires more than 20% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, all other stockholders of the Company would have the right to purchase securities from us at a discount to such securities’ fair market value, thus causing substantial dilution to the holdings of the acquiring person or group. 13 Table of Contents 