Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K and the information incorporated by reference herein. If any of the events described in the following risk factors occurs, our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors that are described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business Our near-term prospects are substantially dependent on our lead product candidate, brentuximab vedotin. If we are unable to successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval for brentuximab vedotin for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory Hodgkin lymphoma, our ability to generate revenue from product sales will be significantly delayed. We currently have no products that are approved for commercial sale. Our product candidates are in various stages of development, and significant research and development, financial resources and personnel will be required to develop commercially viable products and obtain regulatory approvals for them. A substantial portion of our efforts and expenditures over the next few years will be devoted to brentuximab vedotin, which is the subject of an ongoing pivotal clinical trial under a special protocol assessment, or SPA, with the FDA. 22 Table of Contents Accordingly, our future prospects are substantially dependent on the successful development, regulatory approval and commercialization of brentuximab vedotin for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory Hodgkin lymphoma. In addition, in December 2009 we entered into an agreement with Millennium to develop and commercialize brentuximab vedotin, under which Seattle Genetics has United States and Canadian commercial rights and Millennium has commercial rights in the rest of the world. The success of this collaboration and the activities of Millennium will significantly impact the commercialization of brentuximab vedotin in countries other than the United States and Canada. Brentuximab vedotin is not expected to be commercially available for this or any other indication until at least the second half of 2011, if at all. Further, the commercial success of brentuximab vedotin will depend upon its acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payors and other key decision-makers as a therapeutic and cost-effective alternative to currently available products. In addition, the indications that we and Millennium are pursuing for brentuximab vedotin have relatively low incidence rates, including Hodgkin lymphoma and sALCL, which may limit the revenue potential of brentuximab vedotin. If we and Millennium are unable to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize brentuximab vedotin for the treatment of relapsed or refractory Hodgkin lymphoma and other indications, our ability to generate revenue from product sales will be significantly delayed and our business would be materially affected and we may not be able to earn sufficient revenues to continue as a going concern. Although we have reached agreement with the FDA on an SPA relating to our brentuximab vedotin pivotal trial, this agreement does not guarantee any particular outcome with respect to regulatory review of the pivotal trial or with respect to regulatory approval of brentuximab vedotin. The protocol for the brentuximab vedotin pivotal trial was reviewed by the FDA under the SPA process, which allows for FDA evaluation of a clinical trial protocol intended to form the primary basis of an efficacy claim in support of an NDA, and provides an agreement that the study design, including trial size, clinical endpoints and/or data analyses are acceptable to the FDA. Reaching agreement with the FDA on an SPA is not an indication of approvability. Even if we believe that the data from the pivotal trial are positive, an SPA agreement is not a guarantee of approval, and we cannot be certain that the design of, or data collected from, the pivotal trial will be adequate to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of brentuximab vedotin for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory Hodgkin lymphoma, or will otherwise be sufficient to support FDA or any foreign regulatory approvals. Further, the SPA agreement is not binding on the FDA if public health concerns unrecognized at the time the SPA agreement is entered into become evident, other new scientific concerns regarding product safety or efficacy arise or if we fail to comply with the agreed upon trial protocols. In addition, the SPA agreement may be changed by us or the FDA on written agreement of both parties, and the FDA retains significant latitude and discretion in interpreting the terms of the SPA agreement and the data and results from the pivotal trial. As a result, we do not know how the FDA will interpret the parties’ respective commitments under the SPA agreement, how it will interpret the data and results from the pivotal trial or whether brentuximab vedotin will receive any regulatory approvals. Therefore, despite the potential benefits of the SPA agreement, significant uncertainty remains regarding the clinical development of and regulatory approval process for brentuximab vedotin for the treatment of relapsed or refractory Hodgkin lymphoma, and it is possible that we might never receive any regulatory approvals for brentuximab vedotin. Other than brentuximab vedotin, our product candidates are at an early stage of development, and it is possible that none of our product candidates will ever become commercial products. Other than brentuximab vedotin, our product candidates are in relatively early stages of development. These product candidates will require significant further development, financial resources and personnel to obtain regulatory approval and develop into commercially viable products, if at all. Currently, lintuzumab, dacetuzumab, SGN-70 and SGN-75 are in clinical trials, and ASG-5ME and SGN-19A are in preclinical development. We expect that much of our effort and many of our expenditures over the next few years will be devoted to registration and commercialization activities associated with brentuximab vedotin, which may restrict or delay our ability to develop our other clinical and preclinical product candidates. Our ability to commercialize any of our product candidates, including brentuximab vedotin, depends on first receiving required regulatory approvals, and it is possible that we may never receive regulatory approval for any 23 Table of Contents of our product candidates. Even if a product candidate receives regulatory approval, the resulting product may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. Assuming that brentuximab vedotin receives the required regulatory approvals, commercial success outside of the United States and Canada will depend on Millennium’s commercialization efforts. The degree of commercial success of any approved product will depend on a number of factors, including: • establishment and demonstration of clinical efficacy and safety; • cost-effectiveness of the product; • the product’s potential advantage over alternative treatment methods; • whether the product can be produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; and • marketing and distribution support for the product. We do not expect any of our current product candidates to be commercially available until at least the second half of 2011, if at all. If we and/or our collaborators are unable to develop and commercialize any of our product candidates, if development is delayed or if sales revenue from any product candidate that receives marketing approval is insufficient, we may never be profitable. If we or our collaborators are not able to obtain or maintain required regulatory approvals, we or our collaborators will not be able to commercialize our product candidates, our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired and our business will not be successful. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, selling, marketing and distribution of drug products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and other countries, which regulations differ from country to country. Neither we nor our collaborators are permitted to market our product candidates in the United States or foreign countries until we obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other foreign regulatory authorities, and we or our collaborators may never receive regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates. Obtaining marketing approval is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process and approval is never assured, and we have only limited experience in preparing and filing the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. Further, the FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process, and determining when or whether regulatory approval will be obtained for any product candidate we develop. In this regard, even if we believe the data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates are promising, such data, including data from our pivotal trial of brentuximab vedotin, may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA or any other U.S. or foreign regulatory authority. In addition, the FDA or their advisors may disagree with our interpretations of data from preclinical studies and clinical trials. Regulatory agencies also may approve a product candidate for fewer conditions than requested or may grant approval subject to the performance of post-approval studies for a product candidate. Similarly, regulatory agencies may not approve the labeling claims that are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates. In addition, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to institutional review boards, or IRBs, for reexamination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. Due to these and other factors, our current product candidates or any of our other future product candidates could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect or may never gain regulatory approval, which could delay or eliminate any potential product revenue by delaying or terminating the potential commercialization of our product candidates. If we or our collaborators receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will also be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and oversight, including adverse event reporting requirements, marketing restrictions and potential post-marketing obligations, all of which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize such products. The FDA’s policies may also change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates or further restrict or regulate 24 Table of Contents post-approval activities. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, we may not be permitted to market our products and our business could suffer. Any delay in or failure to receive or maintain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates could harm our business and prevent us from ever generating meaningful revenues or achieving profitability. We and our collaborators will need to obtain regulatory approval from authorities in foreign countries to market our product candidates in those countries. Neither we nor our collaborative partners have filed for regulatory approval to market our product candidates in any foreign jurisdictions. Approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. If we or our collaborative partners fail to obtain approvals from foreign jurisdictions, the geographic market for our product candidates would be limited. Our clinical trials may fail to demonstrate acceptable levels of safety and efficacy of our product candidates, which could prevent or significantly delay their regulatory approval. To obtain the requisite regulatory approvals to market and sell any of our product candidates, we must demonstrate, through extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials, that the product candidate is safe and effective in humans. Ongoing and future clinical trials of our product candidates may not show sufficient safety or efficacy to obtain requisite regulatory approvals. The clinical data from our phase I trials of brentuximab vedotin are limited, and the results of our brentuximab vedotin pivotal trial, which was initiated in the first quarter of 2009 and for which we completed patient enrollment in August 2009, will be blinded to us until completion of the trial. In addition, we still only have limited data from our phase I and phase II clinical trials of lintuzumab and dacetuzumab, and our phase I trials of SGN-75 and SGN-70. Phase I and phase II clinical trials are not primarily designed to test the efficacy of a product candidate but rather are designed to test safety, to study pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics and to understand the product candidate’s side effects at various doses and dosing schedules. Furthermore, success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that later large-scale trials will be successful nor does it predict final results. Acceptable results in early trials may not be repeated in later trials. The pivotal trial of brentuximab vedotin required the enrollment of 100 patients and we believe that any clinical trial designed to test the efficacy of lintuzumab, dacetuzumab, SGN-70 or SGN-75, whether phase II or phase III, will likely involve a large number of patients to achieve statistical significance, will be expensive and will take a substantial amount of time to complete. As a result, we may conduct lengthy and expensive clinical trials of our product candidates, only to learn that the product candidate is not an effective treatment or is not superior to existing approved therapies or has an unacceptable safety profile, which could prevent or significantly delay regulatory approval for such product candidate. For example, in October 2009 we discontinued our phase IIb clinical trial of dacetuzumab in combination with Rituxan plus ifosfamide, carboplatin and etoposide, or R-ICE, chemotherapy for patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL based on a determination by the IDMC that the trial would be unlikely to meet its primary endpoint of superior complete response rate in the dacetuzumab combination arm as compared to the placebo combination arm. Clinical trials for our product candidates are expensive and time consuming, may take longer than we expect or may not be completed at all, and their outcome is uncertain. We are currently conducting multiple clinical trials for our clinical product candidates, including a pivotal trial under an SPA with the FDA for brentuximab vedotin, and we expect to commence additional trials of these and other product candidates in the future. Each of our clinical trials requires the investment of substantial expense and time and the timing of the commencement, continuation and completion of these clinical trials may be subject to significant delays relating to various causes, including scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions, difficulties in identifying and enrolling patients who meet trial eligibility criteria, failure of patients to complete the clinical trial, delay or failure to obtain IRB approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site, and shortages of available drug supply. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility 25 Table of Contents criteria for the trial, the existence of competing clinical trials and the availability of alternative or new treatments. In addition, many of our future and ongoing brentuximab vedotin clinical trials will be coordinated with Millennium, which may delay the commencement or affect the continuation or completion of these trials. We have experienced enrollment-related delays in certain of our current and previous clinical trials and will likely experience similar delays in our future trials, particularly as we attempt to significantly increase patient size as may be required for phase III studies. We depend on medical institutions and clinical research organizations, or CROs, to conduct our clinical trials in compliance with Good Clinical Practice or GCP, and to the extent they fail to enroll patients for our clinical trials or are delayed for a significant time in achieving full enrollment, we may be affected by increased costs, program delays or both, which may harm our business. In addition, we conduct clinical trials in foreign countries which may subject us to further delays and expenses as a result of increased drug shipment costs, additional regulatory requirements and the engagement of foreign CROs, as well as expose us to risks associated with less experienced clinical investigators who are unknown to the FDA, different standards of medical care, and foreign currency transactions insofar as we might desire to use U.S. dollars to make contract payments denominated in the foreign currency where the trial is being conducted. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with FDA or other applicable foreign government guidelines and are subject to oversight by the FDA, other foreign governmental agencies and IRBs at the medical institutions where the clinical trials are conducted. In addition, clinical trials must be conducted with supplies of our product candidates produced under GMP and other requirements in foreign countries, and may require large numbers of test patients. We, the FDA or other foreign governmental agencies could delay, suspend or halt our clinical trials of a product candidate for numerous reasons, including: • deficiencies in the conduct of the clinical trial, including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or clinical protocols; • deficiencies in the clinical trial operations or trial sites resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • the product candidate may have unforeseen adverse side effects, including fatalities, or a determination may be made that a clinical trial presents unacceptable health risks; • the time required to determine whether the product candidate is effective may be longer than expected; • fatalities or other adverse events arising during a clinical trial due to medical problems that may not be related to clinical trial treatments; • the product candidate may not appear to be more effective than current therapies; • the quality or stability of the product candidate may fall below acceptable standards; • our inability to produce or obtain sufficient quantities of the product candidate to complete the trials; • our inability to reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; • our inability to obtain IRB approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial, including the incurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional trials and studies and increased expenses associated with the services of our CROs and other third parties; • our inability to recruit and enroll patients to participate in clinical trials for reasons including competition from other clinical trial programs for the same or similar indications; or • our inability to retain patients who have initiated a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to side effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy or personal issues, or who are lost to further follow-up. In addition, we may experience significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials, such as unexpected adverse events that occur when our product candidates are combined with 26 Table of Contents other therapies, which often occurs in later-stage clinical trials. For example, in October 2009 we announced that our phase IIb clinical trial of dacetuzumab in combination with R-ICE chemotherapy for patients with DLBCL was discontinued based on a determination by the IDMC that the trial would be unlikely to meet its primary endpoint of superior complete response rate in the dacetuzumab combination arm as compared to the placebo combination arm. We are also conducting a phase IIb clinical trial of lintuzumab combined with low-dose cytarabine, and may experience unexpected adverse events as a result of this combination or for other reasons. In addition, clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events, including patient fatalities that may be attributable to our product candidates, during a clinical trial could cause it to be redone or terminated. Further, some of our clinical trials may be overseen by an IDMC, and an IDMC may determine to delay or suspend one or more of these trials due to safety or futility findings based on events occurring during a clinical trial. In some circumstances we rely on collaborators to assist in the research and development of our product candidates and, in other situations, to utilize our ADC technology. If we are not able to locate suitable collaborators or if our collaborators do not perform as expected, it may affect our ability to commercialize our product candidates and/or generate revenues through technology licensing. We have established and intend to continue to establish collaborations with third parties to develop and market some of our current and future product candidates. We entered into an exclusive worldwide collaboration agreement with Millennium in December 2009 for the development and commercialization of our brentuximab vedotin product candidate. We also have ADC collaborations with Bayer, Celldex, Daiichi Sankyo, GSK, Genentech, MedImmune, Millennium and Progenics, and an ADC co-development agreement with Agensys. Under certain conditions, our collaborators may terminate their agreements with us and discontinue use of our technologies. For example, in December 2009, Genentech notified us that it has elected to terminate our collaboration agreement for dacetuzumab effective June 8, 2010 and, as a result, we will not receive any milestone payments, cost reimbursements or royalties for the development or sale of dacetuzumab from Genentech. If we decide to continue development of dacetuzumab, we will be responsible for and will be required to solely fund any new dacetuzumab development and clinical trial activities undertaken after June 8, 2010, which could result in a significant delay in the dacetuzumab development process. If we determine instead to discontinue the development of dacetuzumab, we will not receive any future return on our investment from that product candidate. In addition, we cannot control the amount and timing of resources our collaborators may devote to products incorporating our technology. Moreover, our relationships with our collaborators divert significant time and effort of our scientific staff and management team and require effective allocation of our resources to multiple internal and collaborative projects. Our collaborators may separately pursue competing products, therapeutic approaches or technologies to develop treatments for the diseases targeted by us or our collaborators. Even if our collaborators continue their contributions to the collaborative arrangements, they may nevertheless determine not to actively pursue the development or commercialization of any resulting products. Our collaborators may fail to perform their obligations under the collaboration agreements or may be slow in performing their obligations. If any of our collaborators terminate or breach our agreements with them, or otherwise fail to complete their obligations in a timely manner, it may have a detrimental effect on our financial position by reducing or eliminating the potential for us to receive technology access and license fees, milestones and royalties, reimbursement of development costs, as well as possibly requiring us to devote additional efforts and incur costs associated with pursuing internal development of product candidates. In particular, if Millennium were to terminate the collaboration at its election, we would not receive milestone payments, co-funded development payments or royalties for sale of brentuximab vedotin. As a result of such termination, we may have to engage another collaborator to complete the brentuximab vedotin development process or complete the process ourselves internally, either of which could significantly delay the development process and increase our costs. In turn, this could significantly harm our financial position, adversely affect our stock price and require us to incur all the costs of developing and commercializing brentuximab vedotin, which are now being co-funded by Millennium. Furthermore, if our collaborators do not prioritize and commit substantial resources to programs associated with our product candidates, we may be unable to commercialize our product candidates, which would 27 Table of Contents limit our ability to generate revenue and become profitable. In the future, we may not be able to locate third-party collaborators to develop and market our product candidates and we may lack the capital and resources necessary to develop all our product candidates alone. We have no experience in commercializing products on our own and, to the extent we do not develop this ability or contract with a third party to assist us, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our product candidates that may be approved for commercial sale. We do not have a sales and marketing force and may not be able to develop this capacity. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities, we will need to enter into sales and marketing agreements to market any of our product candidates that may be approved for commercial sale. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or successful distribution relationships with biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, we may fail to realize the full sales potential of some of our product candidates. Even if we are able to establish distribution agreements with biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, we generally would not have control over the resources or degree of effort that any of these third parties may devote to our collaborations, and if they fail to devote sufficient time and resources to the marketing of our product candidates, or if their performance is substandard, it will adversely affect the sale of our product candidates. Moreover, government health administrative authorities, private health insurers and other organizations are increasingly challenging both the need for and the price of new medical products and services. Significant changes in the U.S. healthcare system are intended in the near future, including the potential for increased use of cost-effectiveness measures and the possibility of generic biologics. Consequently, uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved therapeutics and diagnostics. For these and other reasons, physicians, patients, third-party payors and the medical community may not accept and utilize any product candidates that we develop and even if they do, reimbursement may not be available for our products to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in research and product development. Similarly, even if we do receive reimbursement, the target market for any approved products may be small or the focus of intense competition and we may not realize an appropriate return on our investment in research and product development. We depend on a small number of collaborators for most of our current revenue. The loss of any one of these collaborators could result in a substantial decline in our revenue. We have collaborations with a limited number of companies. To date, almost all of our revenue has resulted from payments made under agreements with our corporate collaborators, and we expect that most of our future revenue and substantial amounts of cash used to fund our operations will continue to come from corporate collaborations until the approval and commercialization of one or more of our product candidates and even then we may still be highly dependent on the activities of a collaborator to derive revenue from the approved product. For example, if brentuximab vedotin receives regulatory approval, our revenues will still depend in part on Millennium’s ability and willingness to market the approved product outside of the United States and Canada. The loss of our collaborators, especially Millennium, or the failure of our collaborators to perform their obligations under their agreements with us, including paying license or technology fees, milestone payments, royalties or reimbursements, could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Payments under our existing and future collaboration agreements are also subject to significant fluctuations in both timing and amount, which could cause our revenue to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors and cause a decrease in our stock price. We currently rely on third-party manufacturers and other third parties for production of our drug products and our dependence on these manufacturers may impair the development of our product candidates. We do not currently have the internal ability to manufacture the drug products that we need to conduct our clinical trials and we rely upon a limited number of manufacturers to supply our drug products. For the monoclonal antibody used in brentuximab vedotin, we have contracted with Abbott Laboratories for clinical and potential future commercial supplies and we recently entered into a manufacturing and supply agreement with 28 Table of Contents PFMP for the cGMP fill/finish manufacture of commercial quantities of brentuximab vedotin. For brentuximab vedotin and other ADCs, several contract manufacturers, including Albany Molecular and SAFC, supply us with drug-linker and other contract manufacturers, including Piramal, perform conjugation of the drug-linker to the antibody. For dacetuzumab, we have also contracted with Abbott Laboratories for clinical and potential future commercial supplies. For lintuzumab, we entered into a contract manufacturing arrangement with Laureate Pharma to provide later-stage clinical supplies. We have also contracted with Laureate Pharma to manufacture the antibody component of SGN-70 and SGN-75 for clinical trials. In addition, we rely on other third parties to perform additional steps in the manufacturing process, including vialing and storage of our product candidates. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to rely on contract manufacturers and other third parties to produce, vial and store sufficient quantities of our product candidates for use in our clinical trials. If our contract manufacturers or other third parties fail to deliver our product candidates for clinical use on a timely basis, with sufficient quality, and at commercially reasonable prices, and we fail to find replacement manufacturers or to develop our own manufacturing capabilities, we may be required to delay or suspend clinical trials or otherwise discontinue development and production of our product candidates. In addition, we depend on outside vendors for the supply of raw materials used to produce our product candidates. If the third-party suppliers were to cease production or otherwise fail to supply us with quality raw materials and we were unable to contract on acceptable terms for these raw materials with alternative suppliers, our ability to have our product candidates manufactured and to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials of our product candidates would be adversely affected. Although we are currently establishing our commercial scale supply chain for brentuximab vedotin, we do not yet have all of the agreements necessary for the supply of our product candidates in quantities sufficient for commercial sale and we may not be able to establish or maintain sufficient commercial manufacturing arrangements on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, we have committed to provide Millennium with their needs of brentuximab vedotin for a limited period of time, which may require us to arrange for additional manufacturing supply. Securing commercial quantities of our product candidates from contract manufacturers will require us to commit significant capital and resources. We may also be required to enter into long-term manufacturing agreements that contain exclusivity provisions and/or substantial termination penalties. In addition, contract manufacturers have a limited number of facilities in which our product candidates can be produced and any interruption of the operation of those facilities due to events such as equipment malfunction or failure or damage to the facility by natural disasters could result in the cancellation of shipments, loss of product in the manufacturing process or a shortfall in available product candidates. Our contract manufacturers are required to produce our clinical product candidates under GMP in order to meet acceptable standards for our clinical trials. If such standards change, the ability of contract manufacturers to produce our product candidates on the schedule we require for our clinical trials may be affected. In addition, contract manufacturers may not perform their obligations under their agreements with us or may discontinue their business before the time required by us to successfully produce and market our product candidates. We and our contract manufacturers are subject to periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign authorities to ensure strict compliance with GMP and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over a third-party manufacturer’s compliance with these regulations and standards. Any difficulties or delays in our contractors’ manufacturing and supply of product candidates or any failure of our contractors to maintain compliance with the applicable regulations and standards could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue, make us postpone or cancel clinical trials, or cause our products to be recalled or withdrawn. The FDA requires that we demonstrate structural and functional comparability between the same product candidates manufactured by different organizations. Because we have used or intend to use multiple sources to manufacture many of our product candidates, we will need to conduct comparability studies to assess whether manufacturing changes have affected the product safety, identity, purity or potency of any recently manufactured product candidate compared to the product candidate used in prior clinical trials. If we are unable to demonstrate comparability, the FDA could require us to conduct additional clinical trials, which would be expensive and may significantly delay our clinical progress and the possible commercialization of such product candidates. 29 Table of Contents Similarly, if we believe there may be comparability issues with any one of our product candidates, we may postpone or suspend manufacture of the product candidate to conduct further process development of such product candidate in order to alleviate such product comparability concerns, which may significantly delay the clinical progress of such product candidate or increase its manufacturing costs. We rely on third parties to provide services in connection with our preclinical and clinical development programs. The inadequate performance by or loss of any of these service providers could affect our product candidate development. Several third parties provide services in connection with our preclinical and clinical development programs, including in vitro and in vivo studies, assay and reagent development, immunohistochemistry, toxicology, pharmacokinetics and other outsourced activities. If these service providers do not adequately perform the services for which we have contracted or cease to continue operations and we are not able to quickly find a replacement provider or we lose information or items associated with our product candidates, our development programs may be delayed. Our ADC technology has not been incorporated into a commercial product and is still at a relatively early stage of development. Our ADC technology, utilizing proprietary stable linkers and highly potent cell-killing drugs, has not been incorporated into a commercial product and is still at a relatively early stage of development. This ADC technology is used in our brentuximab vedotin, SGN-75, ASG-5ME and SGN-19A product candidates and is the basis of our collaborations with Agensys, Bayer, Celldex, Daiichi Sankyo, Genentech, GSK, MedImmune, Millennium and Progenics. We and our corporate collaborators are conducting toxicology, pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and other preclinical studies and, although we and our collaborators have initiated clinical trials of ADC product candidates, additional studies may be required before other ADC product candidates enter human clinical trials. In addition, preclinical models to study patient toxicity and anti-cancer activity of compounds are not necessarily predictive of toxicity or efficacy of these compounds in the treatment of human cancer and there may be substantially different results in clinical trials from the results obtained in preclinical studies. Any failures or setbacks in our ADC program, including adverse effects resulting from the use of this technology in humans, could have a detrimental impact on our internal product candidate pipeline and our ability to maintain and/or enter into new corporate collaborations regarding these technologies, which would negatively affect our business and financial position. We have a history of net losses. We expect to continue to incur net losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability for some time, if at all. We have incurred substantial net losses in each of our years of operation and, as of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $396 million. We expect to make substantial expenditures to further develop and commercialize our product candidates, and we anticipate that our rate of spending will accelerate as the result of the increased costs and expenses associated with research, development, clinical trials, manufacturing, regulatory approvals and commercialization of our product candidates. In the near term, we expect our revenues to be derived from technology licensing fees, sponsored research fees and milestone payments under existing and future collaborative arrangements. In the longer term, our revenues may also include royalties from collaborations with current and future strategic partners and commercial product sales if any of our product candidates are approved for commercial sale. However, our revenue and profit potential is unproven and our limited operating history makes our future operating results difficult to predict. We have never been profitable and may never achieve profitability and if we do achieve profitability, it may not be sustainable. We will continue to need significant amounts of additional capital that may not be available to us. We expect to make additional capital outlays and to increase operating expenditures over the next several years as we hire additional employees and support our preclinical development, manufacturing and clinical trial activities, as well as position our product candidates, specifically brentuximab vedotin, for potential regulatory 30 Table of Contents approval and commercial sale. Although some of these expenditures are expected to be shared with Millennium as part of our brentuximab vedotin collaboration, we will continue to need significant amounts of additional capital. We may seek additional funding through public or private financings, including equity financings, and through other means, such as collaborations and license agreements. However, the global credit markets and the financial services industry have recently experienced a period of unusual volatility and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. government. These events have generally made equity and debt financing more difficult to obtain. As a result of these recent events and other factors, we do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or that, if available, we will obtain financing on terms favorable to us or our stockholders. If adequate funds are not available to us, we will be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs, which may adversely affect our business and operations. Our future capital requirements will depend upon a number of factors, including: • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals, including the preparation for product commercialization; • the size, complexity, timing, and number of clinical programs; • our receipt of milestone-based payments or other revenue from our collaborations or license arrangements; • the cost of establishing clinical and commercial supplies of our product candidates and any products that we and/or our collaborators may develop; • progress with clinical trials; • the costs associated with acquisitions or licenses of additional products, including licenses we may need to commercialize our products; • the terms and timing of any future collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish; • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; • the potential costs associated with state and federal taxes; • the timing and cost of milestone payment obligations as our product candidates progress towards commercialization; and • competing technological and market developments. In addition, changes in our business may occur that would consume available capital resources sooner than we expect. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish some rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. We rely on license agreements for certain aspects of our product candidates and technology. Failure to maintain these license agreements or to secure any required new licenses could prevent us from developing or commercializing our product candidates and technology. We have entered into agreements with third-party commercial and academic institutions to license technology for use in our product candidates and ADC technology. Currently, we have license agreements with Bristol-Myers Squibb, Arizona State University, Genentech, PDL BioPharma, Facet, CLB Research and Development, CMC ICOS Biologics, Mabtech, and the University of Miami, among others. Some of these license agreements contain diligence and milestone-based termination provisions, in which case our failure to meet any agreed upon diligence requirements or milestones may allow the licensor to terminate the agreement. Many of our license agreements grant us exclusive licenses to the underlying technologies. If our licensors 31 Table of Contents terminate our license agreements or if we are unable to maintain the exclusivity of our exclusive license agreements, we may be unable to continue to develop and commercialize our product candidates. In addition, continued development and commercialization of our product candidates will likely require us to secure licenses to additional technologies. We may not be able to secure these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates. Similarly, if we fail to sustain and further build our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to develop competing therapies. Our success depends, in part, on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and successfully enforcing these patents and defending them against third-party challenges in the United States and other countries. We own multiple U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications for our technologies. We also have rights to issued U.S. patents, patent applications, and their foreign counterparts, relating to our monoclonal antibody and drug-based technologies. Our rights to these patents and patent applications are derived in part from worldwide licenses from Bristol-Myers Squibb, Arizona State University and Facet, among others. In addition, we have licensed our U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications to third parties. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. In addition, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may issue revised regulations affecting prosecution before that office, and various pieces of legislation, including patent reform acts, have been introduced or discussed in the U.S. Senate and Congress in the past few years. If implemented, or following final resolution of pending legislation, new regulations or legislation could, among other things, restrict our ability to prosecute applications in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and may lower the threshold required for competitors to challenge our patents in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office after they have been granted. The standards that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and foreign patent offices use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. Consequently, our pending patent applications may not be allowed and, if allowed, may not contain the type and extent of patent claims that will be adequate to conduct our business as planned. Additionally, any issued patents we currently own or obtain in the future may not contain claims that will permit us to stop competitors from using similar technology. Similarly, the standards that courts use to interpret patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and may evolve, particularly as new technologies develop. As a result, the protection, if any, given by our patents if we attempt to enforce them or if they are challenged in court is uncertain. We rely on trade secrets and other proprietary information where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets and other proprietary information are difficult to protect. We have taken measures to protect our unpatented trade secrets and know-how, including the use of confidentiality and assignment of inventions agreements with our employees, consultants and certain contractors. It is possible, however, that these persons may breach the agreements or that our competitors may independently develop or otherwise discover our trade secrets or other proprietary information. Our research collaborators may publish data and information to which we have rights. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information in connection with our collaborations, then our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information may be impaired. We may incur substantial costs and lose important rights as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. We may face potential lawsuits by companies alleging infringement of its intellectual property. Because patent applications can take a few years to publish, there may be currently pending applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that affect the commercial development of our product candidates. 32 Table of Contents In addition, we are monitoring the progress of multiple pending patent applications of other companies that, if granted, may require us to license or challenge their validity upon commercialization of our product candidates. The defense and enforcement of intellectual property rights in a court of law, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office interference or reexamination proceedings, foreign opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings in the United States and elsewhere involve complex legal and factual questions. These proceedings are costly and time-consuming. If we become involved in any litigation, interference or other administrative proceedings, we will incur substantial expense and it will divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination may limit the scope of intellectual property protection for our proprietary technologies, subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses that may not be available from third parties on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We may be restricted or prevented from developing and commercializing our product candidates in the event of an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding, or if we fail to obtain necessary licenses. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, our future growth and ability to compete would suffer. We are highly dependent on the efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management. Additionally, we have scientific personnel with significant and unique expertise in monoclonal antibodies, ADCs and related technologies. The loss of the services of any one of the principal members of our managerial or scientific staff may prevent us from achieving our business objectives. In addition, the competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology field is intense, and our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled scientific, technical and managerial employees. In order to commercialize our products successfully, we will be required to expand our workforce, particularly in the areas of manufacturing, clinical trials management, regulatory affairs, business development, sales and marketing. These activities will require the addition of new personnel, including management, and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as academic and other research institutions. To the extent we are not able to attract and retain these individuals on favorable terms, our business may be harmed. We face intense competition and rapid technological change, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing competing products before or more successfully than we do. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. We are aware of many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are actively engaged in research and development in areas related to antibody therapy or that are otherwise developing various approaches to cancer and autoimmune disease therapy. Some of these competitors have successfully commercialized antibody products or are developing or testing product candidates that do or may in the future compete directly with our product candidates. For example, we believe that companies including Genentech, Amgen, Bayer, ImmunoGen, Biogen IDEC, Celgene, Cephalon, Genzyme, Medarex (a wholly owned subsidiary of Bristol-Myers Squibb), Eisai, Millennium, Novartis, Micromet and Wyeth (a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer) are developing and/or marketing products or technologies that may compete with ours, and some of these companies, including Wyeth, ImmunoGen and Medarex, have ADC technology. Other potential competitors include large, fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and more established biotechnology companies that have significant resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing. Also, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and marketing. It is possible that these competitors will succeed in developing technologies that are more effective than our product candidates or that would render our technology obsolete or noncompetitive. Our competitors may, among other things: • develop safer or more effective products; 33 Table of Contents • implement more effective approaches to sales and marketing; • develop less costly products; • obtain quicker regulatory approval; • have access to more manufacturing capacity; • form more advantageous strategic alliances; or • establish superior proprietary positions. In addition, if we receive regulatory approvals, we may compete with well-established, FDA-approved therapies that have generated substantial sales over a number of years. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter our market and scientific developments surrounding other cancer therapies continue to accelerate. We face product liability risks and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance to protect us against losses. We currently have no products that have been approved for commercial sale. However, the current and future use of our product candidates by us and our corporate collaborators in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products in the future, may expose us to liability claims. These claims might be made directly by consumers or healthcare providers or indirectly by pharmaceutical companies, our corporate collaborators or others selling such products. We may experience financial losses in the future due to product liability claims. We have obtained limited general commercial liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates. However, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against all losses. If a successful product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, our assets may not be sufficient to cover such claims and our business operations could be impaired. Our operations involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health and safety controls and regulations. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials, and we spend considerable time complying with such laws and regulations. Our business activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and although we take precautions to prevent accidental contamination or injury from these materials, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of using these materials. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may engage in future acquisitions that increase our capital requirements, dilute our stockholders, cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities and subject us to other risks. We actively evaluate various strategic transactions on an ongoing basis, including licensing or acquiring complementary products, technologies or businesses. Any potential acquisitions may entail numerous risks, including increased operating expenses and cash requirements, assimilation of operations and products, retention of key employees, diversion of our management’s attention and uncertainties in our ability to maintain key business relationships of the acquired entities. In addition, if we undertake acquisitions, we may issue dilutive securities, assume or incur debt obligations, incur large one-time expenses and acquire intangible assets that could result in significant future amortization expense. Moreover, we may not be able to locate suitable acquisition opportunities and this inability could impair our ability to grow or obtain access to technology or products that may be important to the development of our business. 34 Table of Contents Legislative actions, potential new accounting pronouncements and higher insurance costs are likely to impact our future financial position or results of operations. Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse, unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our financial position or results of operations. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred with frequency in the past and may occur again in the future and as a result we may be required to make changes in our accounting policies. Those changes could adversely affect our reported revenues, future profitability or financial position. Compliance with new regulations regarding corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from science and business activities to compliance activities. Current global credit and financial market conditions may negatively impact or impair the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments, including auction rate securities, and our ability to fund our planned operations. Our cash, cash equivalents and investments are held in a variety of interest-bearing instruments and subject to investment guidelines allowing for investments in U.S. government and agency securities, high-grade corporate bonds, taxable municipal bonds, mortgage-backed securities, auction rate securities, or ARS, commercial paper and money market accounts. As a result of the current adverse global credit and financial market conditions, investments in some financial instruments, such as mortgage-backed securities and ARS, may pose risks arising from liquidity and credit concerns. For example, as of December 31, 2009 we held ARS valued at $12.5 million that have failed at auction and are currently illiquid. Given that further deterioration in the global credit and financial markets is a possibility, no assurance can be made that losses, failed auctions or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents, short-term or long-term investments or ARS will not occur. If any such losses, failed auctions or other significant deteriorations occur, it may negatively impact or impair our current portfolio of cash equivalents, short-term or long-term investments or ARS and our ability to fund our planned operations. Further, unless and until the current global credit and financial market crisis has been sufficiently resolved, it may be difficult for us to liquidate our investments prior to their maturity without incurring a loss. Risks Related to Our Stock Our stock price is volatile and our shares may suffer a decline in value. The market price of our stock has in the past been, and is likely to continue in the future to be, very volatile. During the fourth quarter of 2009, our closing stock price fluctuated between $8.74 and $13.20 per share. As a result of fluctuations in the price of our common stock, you may be unable to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for them. The market price of our common stock may be subject to substantial volatility in response to many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control, including: • announcements regarding the results of discovery efforts and preclinical and clinical activities by us or our competitors, especially the results of our pivotal trial of brentuximab vedotin; • termination of or changes in our existing collaborations or licensing arrangements, especially our brentuximab vedotin collaboration with Millennium; • establishment of new collaboration, partnering or licensing arrangements by us or our competitors; • announcement of FDA approval or non-approval of our product candidates or delays in the FDA review process; • actions taken by regulatory authorities with respect to our product candidates, our clinical trials or our regulatory filings; • our ability to raise capital; 35 Table of Contents • market conditions for equity investments in general, or the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industries in particular; • developments or disputes concerning our proprietary rights; • issuance of new or changed analysts’ reports and recommendations regarding us or our competitors; • share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; • changes in government regulations; and • economic or other external factors. The stock markets in general, and the markets for biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced significant volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Recently, the financial markets faced significant uncertainty, resulting in a decline in investor confidence and concerns about the proper functioning of the securities markets, which decline in general investor confidence resulted in depressed stock prices for many companies notwithstanding the lack of a fundamental change in their underlying business models or prospects. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs, which would hurt our financial condition and results of operations and divert management’s attention and resources, which could result in delays of our clinical trials or commercialization efforts. Our existing stockholders have significant control of our management and affairs. Our executive officers and directors and holders of greater than five percent of our outstanding voting stock, together with entities that may be deemed affiliates of, or related to, such persons or entities, beneficially owned approximately 52 percent of our voting power as of March 10, 2010. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, may be able to control our management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of substantially all of our assets. Consequently, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, including a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, which might affect the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of Seattle Genetics without further action by the stockholders and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of common stock. Further, certain provisions of our charter documents, including provisions eliminating the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent and limiting the ability of stockholders to raise matters at a meeting of stockholders without giving advance notice, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management of Seattle Genetics, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. In addition, our charter documents provide for a classified board, which may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board of Directors. Similarly, state anti-takeover laws in Delaware and Washington related to corporate takeovers may prevent or delay a change of control of Seattle Genetics. 36 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 