Risk Factors Various risk factors that are relevant to our business and the services we provide are outlined below. If any of these events were to occur, our business operations and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Risk Related to Our Business and Operations We depend on a limited number of customers and a loss of or significant decrease in business from one or more of them could affect our business. The increased use of strategic partnership arrangements in recent years has resulted in a greater proportion of our net revenues being derived from a relatively limited number of customers. During the year ended December 31, 2015 49% of our net revenues were derived from our top five customers, with one customer contributing more than 10% of our net revenues during the period (31%). No other customer contributed more than 10% of our net revenues during this period. During the year ended December 31, 2014 53% of our net revenues were derived from our top five customers, with one customer contributing more than 10% of our net revenues during the period (31%). During the year ended December 31, 2013 53% of our net revenues were derived from our top five customers, with two customers individually contributing more than 10% of our net revenues during the period (26% and 10% respectively). No other customer contributed more than 10% of our net revenues during this period. The loss of, or a significant decrease in business from one or more of these key customers could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial results. Many of our contracts are long-term fixed-fee contracts. We would lose money in performing these contracts if the costs of performance exceed the fixed fees for these projects and we were unable to negotiate a change order for the value of work performed. Many of our contracts are long-term fixed fee contracts. Revenues on these contracts are agreed in the contract between the Company and the customer and are based on estimated time inputs to the contract. Factors considered in estimating time requirements include the complexity of the study, the number of geographical sites where trials are to be conducted and the number of patients to be recruited at each site. The Company regularly reviews the estimated hours on each contract to determine if the budget accurately reflects the agreed tasks to be performed taking into account the state of progress at the time of review. The Company further endeavours to ensure that changes in scope are appropriately monitored and change orders for additional revenue are promptly negotiated for additional work as necessary. If we were to fail to recognize and negotiate change orders for changes in the resources required or the scope of the work to be performed and the costs of performance of these contracts exceeded their fixed fees it could materialy adversely affect our operations and financial results. If our customers discontinue using our services, or cancel or discontinue projects, our revenue will be adversely affected and/or we may not receive their business in the future or may not be able to attract new clients. Our clients may discontinue using our services completely or cancel some projects either without notice or upon short notice. The termination or delay of a large contract or of multiple contracts could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Historically, clients have cancelled or discontinued projects and may in the future cancel their contracts with us for reasons including, amongst others: ● the failure of products being tested to satisfy safety or efficacy requirements; ● unexpected or undesired clinical results of the product; ● a decision that a particular study is no longer necessary or viable; ● poor project performance, quality concerns, insufficient patient enrollment or investigator recruitment; and ● production problems resulting in shortages of the drug. If we lose clients, we may not be able to attract new ones, and if we lose individual projects, we may not be able to replace them. 4 If we fail to attract or retain qualified staff, our performance may suffer. Our business, future success and ability to continue to expand operations depends upon our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified professional, scientific and technical operating staff. We compete for qualified professionals with other Clinical Research Organizations “CROs”, temporary staffing agencies and the in-house departments of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. An inability to attract and retain a sufficient number of high caliber clinical research professionals (in particular, key personnel and executives) at an acceptable cost would impact our ability to provide our services, our future performance and results of operations. Our ability to perform clinical trials is dependent upon the ability to recruit suitable willing patients. The successful completion of clinical trials is dependent upon the ability to recruit suitable and willing patients on which to test the drug under study. The availability of suitable patients for enrollment on studies is dependent upon many factors including, amongst others, the size of the patient population, the design of the study protocol, eligibility criteria, the referral practices of physicians, the perceived risks and benefits of the drug under study and the availability of alternative medication, including medication undergoing separate clinical trial. Insufficient or inappropriate patient enrollment may result in the termination or delay of a study which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our ability to perform clinical trials is dependent upon our ability to recruit suitable willing investigators. We contract with physicians located in hospitals, clinics or other similar sites, who serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials to test new drugs on their patients. Investigators supervise administration of the study drug to patients during the course of the clinical trial. The successful conduct of a clinical trial is dependent upon the integrity, experience and capabilities of the investigators conducting the trial. Insufficient investigator recruitment, which in turn may lead to insufficient or inappropriate patient enrolment, may result in the termination or delay of a study which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We rely on third parties for important products and services. We depend on certain third parties to provide us with products and services critical to our business. Such services include, amongst others, suppliers of drugs for patients participating in trials, suppliers of kits for use in in our central laboratory business, suppliers of reagents for use in our testing equipment and providers of maintenance services for our equipment. The failure of any of these third parties to adequately provide the required products or services or the significant increase in the costs of such products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business depends on the continued effectiveness and availability of our information systems, including the information systems we use to provide our services to our clients, and any system failures of, security breaches of or cyber-attacks to these systems may materially limit our operations or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Due to the global nature of our business and our reliance on information systems to provide our services, we use web-enabled and other integrated information systems in delivering our services. We intend to further increase the use of these systems and such systems will be either developed internally or provided by or in conjunction with third parties. We also provide access to similar information systems to certain clients in connection with the services we provide them. As the use, scope and complexity of our information systems continue to grow, we are exposed to and will increasingly be exposed to the risks inherent in the development, integration and ongoing operation of evolving information systems, including: ● disruption, impairment or failure of data centers, telecommunications facilities or other key infrastructure platforms; ● security breaches, cyber-attacks or other failures or malfunctions in our application or information systems or their associated hardware or other systems that we have access to or that we rely upon; and ● excessive costs, excessive delays or other deficiencies in or problems with systems development and deployment. 5 The materialization of any of these risks may impede our ability to provide services, the processing of data, the delivery of databases and services, and the day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption, loss or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary, confidential or other data. While we have disaster recovery plans in place, they might not adequately protect us in the event of a system failure, security breach or cyber-attack. Despite any precautions we take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, information system security breaches, cyber attack and similar events at or that impact on our various computer facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and from our servers to our clients. Corruption or loss of data may result in the need to repeat a trial at no cost to the client, but at significant cost to us, or result in the termination of a contract or damage to our reputation. Additionally, significant delays in system enhancements or inadequate performance of new or upgraded systems once completed could damage our reputation and harm our business. Long-term disruptions in the infrastructure caused by events such as security breaches, cyber attack, natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities and acts of terrorism, particularly involving cities in which we have offices, could adversely affect our business. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential data, whether through system failure or employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for our clients, whether by our employees or third parties, including a cyber-attack by computer programmers and hackers who may develop and deploy viruses, worms or other malicious software programs could result in negative publicity, significant remediation costs, legal liability and damage to our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial results. In addition, our liability insurance might not be sufficient in type, the cover provided or amount to adequately cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyber-attacks and other related breaches. Upgrading the information systems that support our operating processes and evolving the technology platform for our services pose risks to our business. Continued efficient operation of our business requires that we implement standardized global business processes and evolve our information systems to enable this implementation. We have continued to undertake significant programs to optimize business processes with respect to our services. Our inability to effectively manage the implementation and adapt to new processes designed into these new or upgraded systems in a timely and cost-effective manner may result in disruption to our business and negatively affect our operations. We have entered into agreements with certain vendors to provide systems development and integration services that develop or license to us the IT platform for programs to optimize our business processes. If such vendors fail to perform as required or if there are substantial delays in developing, implementing and updating the IT platform, our customer delivery may be impaired, and we may have to make substantial further investments, internally or with third parties, to achieve our objectives. Additionally, our progress may be limited by parties with existing or claimed patents who seek to enjoin us from using preferred technology or seek license payments from us. Meeting our objectives is dependent on a number of factors which may not take place as we anticipate, including obtaining adequate technology-enabled services, creating IT-enabled services that our customers will find desirable and implementing our business model with respect to these services. If we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes in the CRO industry, our products and services may become less competitive or even obsolete. This applies in particular to our ICONIK, Firecrest and ADDPLAN services. Also, increased IT-related expenditures may negatively impact our financial condition, including profitability. We rely on our interactive response technologies to provide accurate information regarding the randomization of patients and the dosage required for patients enrolled in the trials. We develop and maintain computer run and web based interactive response technologies to automatically manage the randomization of patients in trials, assign the study drug, and adjust the dosage when required for patients enrolled in trials we support. An error in the design, programming or validation of these systems could lead to inappropriate assignment or dosing of patients which could give rise to patient safety issues, incorrect dosing of patients, invalidation of the trial and/or liability claims against the Company among other things any of which could have a material effect on our financial conditions and operations. 6 Our operations might be impacted by a disruption to travel systems. Many of our operations rely on the availability of air or other transportation for the distribution of clinical trial materials, study samples and personnel. While we have developed contingency plans to minimize the impact of such events, a disruption to the availability of air transportation or other travel systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to provide services and results of operations. We may make, or be unable to make, acquisitions in the future, which may lead to disruptions to our ongoing business. We have made a number of acquisitions and will continue to review new acquisition opportunities. If we are unable to identify suitable acquisition targets, consummate an acquisition or successfully integrate an acquired company or business, our business may be disrupted. The success of an acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to: ● effectively and quickly assimilate the operations and services or products of the acquired company or business; ● integrate acquired personnel; ● retain and motivate key employees; ● retain customers; and ● minimize the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. In the event that the operations of an acquired company or business do not meet our performance expectations, we may have to restructure the acquired company or business or write-off the value of some or all of the assets of the acquired company or business. Serious adverse events can occur in the conduct of clinical study trials. We conduct all phases of clinical trials. Although we have policies and procedures in place, due to the experimental nature of these studies, serious adverse events may arise and are appropriately documented and reported. Our relationships with existing or potential customers who are in competition with each other may adversely impact the degree to which other customers or potential customers use our services, which may adversely affect our results of operations. The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, with biopharmaceutical companies each seeking to persuade payers, providers and patients that their drug therapies are better and more cost-effective than competing therapies marketed or being developed by competing firms. In addition to the adverse competitive interests that biopharmaceutical companies have with each other, biopharmaceutical companies also have adverse interests with respect to drug selection and reimbursement with other participants in the healthcare industry, including payers and providers. Biopharmaceutical companies also compete to be first to market with new drug therapies. We regularly provide services to biopharmaceutical companies who compete with each other, and we sometimes provide services to such customers regarding competing drugs in development. Our existing or future relationships with our biopharmaceutical customers may therefore deter other biopharmaceutical customers from using our services or may result in our customers seeking to place limits on our ability to serve other biopharmaceutical industry participants. In addition, our further expansion into the broader healthcare market may adversely impact our relationships with biopharmaceutical customers, and such customers may elect not to use our services, reduce the scope of services that we provide to them or seek to place restrictions on our ability to serve customers in the broader healthcare market with interests that are adverse to theirs. Any loss of customers or reductions in the level of revenues from a customer could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business and prospects. 7 We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and these rights are important to our success. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to develop, use and protect our proprietary methodologies, analytics, systems, technologies and other intellectual property. Existing laws of the various countries in which we provide services or solutions offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights, and the protection in some countries may be very limited. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure, invention assignment and other contractual arrangements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws, to protect our intellectual property rights. These laws are subject to change at any time and certain agreements may not be fully enforceable, which could further restrict our ability to protect our innovations. Our intellectual property rights may not prevent competitors from independently developing services similar to or duplicative of ours. Further, the steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property by competitors, former employees or other third parties, and we might not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Enforcing our rights might also require considerable time, money and oversight, and we may not be successful in enforcing our rights. We may, in certain circumstances, grant a customer greater rights in intellectual property developed in connection with a contract than we would normally grant. In such situations, we may forego the use of all intellectual property rights we create or develop, which would limit our ability to reuse or deploy that intellectual property for other customers. Any limitation on our ability to provide a service or solution may result in us losing revenue-generating opportunities and may also result in us incurring additional expenses to develop or license new or modified solutions for other projects or customers. The biopharmaceutical industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, and we might be involved in costly intellectual property lawsuits. The biopharmaceutical industry has a history of intellectual property litigation, and these lawsuits will likely continue in the future. Accordingly, we may face patent infringement suits by companies that have patents for similar business processes or other suits alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. Legal proceedings relating to intellectual property could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. If we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we might have to pay substantial damages, and we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license to use technology on unfavorable terms. Any infringement or other legal processing related to intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We act as legal representative for some clients. We act as the legal representative for certain clients in certain jurisdictions. As we believe that acting as legal representative of clients exposes us to a higher risk of liability this service is provided subject to our policy and requires certain preconditions to be met. The preconditions relate to obtaining specific insurance commitments and indemnities from the client to cover the nature of the exposure. However, there is no guarantee that the specific insurance will respond and provide cover or that a client will fulfil its obligations in relation to their indemnity. Risk Related to Our Industry We are dependent on the continued outsourcing of research and development by the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries. We are dependent upon the ability and willingness of the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies to continue to spend on research and development and to outsource the services that we provide. We are therefore subject to risks, uncertainties and trends that affect companies in these industries and that we do not control. We have benefited to date from the tendency of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies to outsource clinical research projects. Any downturn in these industries or reduction in spending or outsourcing could materially adversely affect our business. The following could each result in such a downturn: ● if pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device companies expanded upon their in-house clinical or development capabilities, they would be less likely to utilize our services; ● if governmental regulations were changed, it could affect the ability of our clients to operate profitably, which may lead to a decrease in research spending and therefore this could have a material adverse effect on our business; and ● if unfavorable economic conditions or disruptions in the credit and capital markets negatively impacted our clients. 8 Large pharmaceutical companies are increasingly consolidating their vendor base and entering strategic partnership arrangements with a limited number of outsource providers. Large pharmaceutical companies are continually seeking to drive efficiencies in their development processes to both reduce costs associated with the development of new drug candidates and accelerate time to market. As a result, large pharmaceutical companies in particular are increasingly looking to consolidate the number of outsource providers with which they engage, with many entering strategic partnership arrangements with a limited number of outsource providers. The failure to enter strategic partnership arrangements with customers or the loss of existing customers as a result of them entering strategic partnership arrangements with our competitors could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Increased collaboration amongst pharmaceutical companies in research and development activities may lead to fewer research opportunities. Certain pharmaceutical companies have begun to collaborate in seeking to develop new drug candidates. Increased collaboration amongst pharmaceutical companies may lead to fewer research opportunities, which in turn may lead to fewer outsource opportunities for companies within the CRO industry. A reduction in outsource opportunities as a result of this increased collaboration could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive and dynamic market. The CRO industry is highly competitive. In particular, we compete with other large global CROs for strategic relationships with large pharmaceutical companies. If we are unable to retain and renew existing strategic relationships and win new strategic relationships, there would be a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Similarly, we compete with other CROs for work which comes outside of these strategic relationships and being unable to win work outside of these strategic relationships would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. The type and depth of services provided by CROs have changed in recent years. Failure to develop and market new services or expand existing service offerings could adversely affect our business and operations. Risk Related to Our Financial Results and Financial Position Our quarterly results are dependent upon a number of factors and can fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our results of operations in any quarter can fluctuate or differ from expected or forecasted results depending upon or due to, among other things, the number and scope of ongoing client projects, the commencement, postponement, variation cancellation or termination of projects in a quarter, the mix of revenue, cost overruns, employee hiring and other factors. Our net revenue in any period is directly related to the number and percentage of employees who were working on projects billable to the client during that period. We may be unable to compensate for periods of underutilization during one part of a fiscal period by augmenting revenues during another part of that period. We believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results. Also, if in future quarters, we are unable to achieve efficiencies and our expenses grow faster than our net revenues, our operating margins, profitability and overall financial condition will be materially adversely impacted. 9 Our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. Our contracts with clients are sometimes denominated in currencies other than the currency in which we incur expenses related to such contracts. Where expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which contracts are priced, fluctuations in the relative value of those currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we are also subject to translation exposures as our consolidated financial results are presented in U.S. dollars, while the local results of certain of our subsidiaries are prepared in currencies other than U.S. dollars, including, amongst others, the pound sterling and the euro. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and those other currencies will affect the translation of a subsidiary’s financial results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Our quarterly effective tax rate has depended and will continue to depend on the geographic distribution of our taxable earnings amongst the multiple tax jurisdictions in which we operate and the tax law in those jurisdictions. Changes in the geographic mix of our results of operations amongst these jurisdictions may have a significant impact on our effective tax rate from quarter to quarter. Changes in tax law in one or more jurisdictions could also have a significant impact on our tax rate and results of operations. In addition, as we operate in multiple tax jurisdictions, we may be subject to audits in certain jurisdictions. These audits may involve complex issues which could require an extended period of time for resolution. The resolution of audit issues may lead to differences, additional taxes, fines or penalties which could have a material adverse impact on our effective tax rate and our financial condition and results of operations. Our backlog may not convert to net revenue and the rate of conversion may slow. Our backlog consists of potential net revenue yet to be earned from projects awarded by clients. Our backlog at any date is not necessarily a meaningful predictor of future results, due to the potential for the cancellation or delay of projects included in the backlog. No assurances can be given that we will be able to realize this backlog as net revenue. A failure to realize backlog as net revenue could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, as the length and complexity of projects underlying our backlog increases, the rate at which backlog converts to net revenue may be slower than in the past. A significant reduction in the rate at which backlog converts to net revenue could have a material impact on our results of operations. The Company is exposed to various risks in relation to our cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. The Company’s treasury function actively manages our available cash resources and invests significant cash balances in various financial institutions to try to ensure optimum returns for our surplus cash balances. These balances are classified as cash and cash equivalents or short term investments depending on the maturity of the related investment. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less. Short term investments comprise highly liquid investments with maturities of greater than three months and minimum “A-” rated fixed and floating rate securities. Given the global nature of our business, we are exposed to various risks in relation to these balances including liquidity risk, credit risk associated with the counterparties with which we invest, interest rate risk on floating rate securities, sovereign risk (our principle sovereign risk relates to investments in U.S. Treasury funds), and other factors. Although we have not recognized any significant losses to date on our cash and cash equivalents or short term investments, any significant declines in their market values could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. 10 Risk Related to Political, Legal or Regulatory Environment We may lose business opportunities as a result of health care reform and the expansion of managed care organizations. Numerous governments, including the U.S. government and governments outside of the U.S., have undertaken efforts to control growing health care costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and drug companies. If these efforts are successful, pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies may react by spending less on research and development and therefore this could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition to healthcare reform proposals, the expansion of managed care organizations in the healthcare market may result in reduced spending on research and development. Managed care organizations' efforts to cut costs by limiting expenditures on pharmaceuticals and medical devices could result in pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies spending less on research and development. If this were to occur, we would have fewer business opportunities and our revenues could decrease, possibly materially. We may lose business as a result of changes in the regulatory environment. Various regulatory bodies throughout the world may enact legislation, rules and guidance which could introduce changes to the regulatory environment for drug development and research. The adoption and implementation of such legislation, rules and guidance is difficult to predict and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to comply with the regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other regulatory authorities could result in substantial penalties and/or loss of business. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and other regulatory authorities inspect us from time to time to ensure that we comply with their regulations and guidelines, including environmental and health and safety matters. We must comply with the applicable regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials in all countries in which we operate. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements we could suffer some or all of: ● termination of or delay in any research; ● disqualification of data; ● denial of the right to conduct business; ● criminal penalties; ● other enforcement actions; ● loss of clients and/or business; and ● litigation from clients and resulting material penalties, damages and costs. We are subject to political, regulatory, operational and legal risks associated with our international operations. We are one of a small group of organizations with the capability and expertise to conduct clinical trials on a global basis. We believe that this capability to provide our services globally in most major and developing pharmaceutical markets enhances our ability to compete for new business from large multinational pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. We have expanded geographically in the past and intend to continue expanding in regions that have the potential to increase our client base or increase our investigator and patient populations. We expect that revenues earned in emerging markets will continue to account for an increasing portion of our total revenues. However, emerging market operations may present several risks, including civil disturbances, health concerns, cultural differences such as employment, regulatory and business practices, compliance with economic sanctions laws and regulations, volatility in gross domestic product, economic and governmental instability, the potential for nationalization of private assets and the imposition of exchange controls. In addition, operating globally means the Company faces the challenges associated with coordinating its services across different countries, time zones and cultures. 11 Changes in the political and regulatory environment in the international markets in which we operate such as price or exchange controls could impact our revenue and profitability, and could lead to penalties, sanctions and reputational damages if we are not compliant with those regulations. Political uncertainty and a lack of institutional continuity in some of the emerging, developing or other countries in which we operate could affect the orderly operation of markets in these economies. In addition, in countries with a large and complicated structure of government and administration, national, regional, local and other governmental bodies may issue inconsistent decisions and opinions that could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and/or have a material adverse effect on our business. Uncertainty of the legal environment in some emerging countries could also limit our ability to enforce our rights. In certain emerging and developing countries we enjoy less comprehensive protection for some of our rights, including intellectual property rights, which could undermine our competitive position. If any of the above risks or similar risks associated with our international operations were to materialize, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA), UK Bribery Act of 2010 and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws. The FCPA, UK Bribery Act of 2010 and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, the FCPA imposes certain books, records, and accounting control obligations on public companies and other issuers. Our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. We operate in many jurisdictions that have experienced corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, anti-corruption laws have appeared to conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot assure that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from acts in violation of anticorruption laws committed by persons associated with us, and our continued expansion, including in developing countries, could increase such risk in the future. Violations of the FCPA, the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act of 2010 or other similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, or even allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and reputation. For example, violations of anti-corruption laws can result in restatements of, or irregularities in, our financial statements as well as severe criminal or civil sanctions. In some cases, companies that violate the FCPA might be debarred by the U.S. government and/or lose their U.S. export privileges. In addition, U.S. or other governments may seek to hold us liable for successor liability FCPA violations or violations of other anticorruption laws committed by companies that we acquire or in which we invest. Changes in anti-corruption laws or enforcement priorities could also result in increased compliance requirements and related costs which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Current and proposed laws and regulations regarding the protection of personal data could result in increased risks of liability or increased cost to us or could limit our service offerings. The confidentiality, collection, use and disclosure of personal data, including clinical trial patient-specific information, are subject to governmental regulation generally in the country that the personal data were collected or used. For example, United States federal regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and as amended in 2014 by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (“HITECH”) Act, require individuals’ written authorization, in addition to any required informed consent, before Protected Health Information may be used for research. Such regulations specify standards for de-identifications and for limited data sets. We are both directly and indirectly affected by the privacy provisions surrounding individual authorizations because many investigators with whom we are involved in clinical trials are directly subject to them as a HIPAA “covered entity” and because we obtain identifiable health information from third parties that are subject to such regulations. As there are some instances where we are a HIPAA “business associate” of a “covered entity,” we can also be directly liable for mishandling protected health information. Under HIPAA’s enforcement scheme, we can be subject to up to $1.5 million in annual civil penalties for each HIPAA violation. 12 In the European Union, or EU, personal data includes any information that relates to an identified or identifiable natural person with health information carrying additional obligations, including obtaining the explicit consent from the individual for collection, use or disclosure of the information. In addition, we are subject to EU rules with respect to cross-border transfers of such data out of the EU. The United States, the EU and its member states, and other countries where we have operations, such as Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, Russia and Singapore, continue to issue new privacy and data protection rules and regulations that relate to personal data and health information. Failure to comply with certain certification/registration and annual re-certification/registration provisions associated with these data protection and privacy regulations and rules in various jurisdictions, or to resolve any serious privacy complaints, could subject us to regulatory sanctions, criminal prosecution or civil liability. Federal, state and foreign governments are contemplating or have proposed or adopted additional legislation governing the collection, possession, use or dissemination of personal data, such as personal health information, and personal financial data as well as security breach notification rules for loss or theft of such data. Additional legislation or regulation of this type might, among other things, require us to implement new security measures and processes or bring within the legislation or regulation de-identified health or other personal data, each of which may require substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our services. Additionally, if we violate applicable laws, regulations or duties relating to the use, privacy or security of personal data, we could be subject to civil liability or criminal prosecution, be forced to alter our business practices and suffer reputational harm. The European data protection framework is being revised as a generally applicable regulation which contains new provisions specifically directed at the processing of health information, sanctions of up to 4% of worldwide gross revenue and extra-territoriality measures intended to bring non-EU companies under the proposed regulation. The new regulation comes into force in 2018. Liability claims brought against us could result in payment of substantial damages, costs and liabilities and decrease our profitability. Customer Claims If we breach the terms of an agreement with a client (for example if we fail to comply with the agreement, all applicable regulations or Good Clinical Practice) this could result in claims against us for substantial damages which could have a material adverse effect on our business. As we are a “people business” in that we provide staff to provide our services in hospitals and other sites, there is a risk that our management, quality and control structures fail to quickly detect should one or more employees or contractors fail to comply with all applicable regulations and Good Clinical Practice and thereby expose us to the risk of claims by clients. Claims relating to Investigators We contract with physicians who serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials to test new drugs on their patients. This testing creates the risk of liability for personal injury to or death of the patients. Although investigators are generally required by law to maintain their own liability insurance, we could be named in lawsuits and incur expenses arising from any professional malpractice or other actions against the investigators with whom we contract. Indemnification from Clients Indemnifications provided by our clients against the risk of liability for personal injury to or death of the patients arising from the study drug vary from client to client and from trial to trial and may not be sufficient in scope or amount or the client may not have the financial ability to fulfill their indemnification obligations. Furthermore, we would be liable for our own negligence and negligence of our employees and such negligence could lead to litigation from clients or action or enforcement by regulatory authorities. 13 Insurance We maintain what we believe is an appropriate level of worldwide Professional Liability/Error and Omissions Insurance. We may in the future be unable to maintain or continue our current insurance coverage on the same or similar terms. If we are liable for a claim or settlement that is beyond the level of insurance coverage, we may be responsible for paying all or part of any award or settlement amount. Also, the insurance policies contain exclusions which mean that the policy will not respond or provide cover in certain circumstances. Claims to Date To date, we have not been subject to any liability claims that are expected to have a material effect on our business; however, there can be no assurance that we will not become subject to such claims in the future or that such claims will not have a material effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We have incurred debt, which could impair our flexibility and access to capital and adversely affect our financial position. As of December 31, 2015, we had an outstanding principal amount of indebtedness of $350 million under our $350 million Note Purchase and Guarantee Agreement or ‘Senior Notes’ that we entered into on December 15, 2015. We also have up to $100 million of additional borrowing capacity available under the Revolving Credit Facility. No amounts were drawn under the Revolving Credit Facility facility as of December 31, 2015. The cost and availability of credit are subject to changes in the global or regional economic environment. If conditions in the major credit markets deteriorate our ability to obtain debt financing on favorable terms may be negatively affected. We may incur additional debt in the future. Our debt could have significant adverse consequences, including to; ● limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; ● limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; ● require us to use all or a portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; ● require us to sell certain assets; ● restrict us from making strategic investments, including acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; ● place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; ● cause us to incur substantial fees from time to time in connection with debt amendments or refinancing; ● limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; and ● increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we do not have sufficient funds to meet our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance or restructure all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can be assured that we would be able to do in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, a failure to comply with the covenants under our indebtedness could result in an event of default under such indebtedness. In the event of an acceleration of amounts due under our existing indebtedness as a result of an event of default, we may not have sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to repay our indebtedness or to make any required accelerated payments. In addition, we are required, under the terms of the Senior Notes, to offer to purchase all of the outstanding Senior Notes if we experience a change of control. Similar requirements exist in the Revolving Credit Facility. These provisions may delay or prevent a change in control that our stockholders may consider desirable. 14 Covenants in our credit agreements may restrict our business and operations and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not comply with those covenants. The Senior Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility credit agreements include certain customary covenants that limit our ability other things, subject to certain exceptions; ● incur or assume liens or additional debt, ● dispose of assets, ● engage in mergers or reorganizations or ● enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates. The Senior Notes agreement also includes certain financial covenants that require us to comply with a consolidated leverage ratio, a minimum EBIT to consolidated net interest charge ratio and a maximum amount of priority debt, each of which are defined in the Note Purchase Agreement. Our ability to comply with these financial covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. These covenants may limit our operating and financial flexibility and limit our ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive activities. In the event that we fail to pay principal or interest when due on the Senior Notes, or as a result of a material breach of any representation, warranty or covenant or any other event of default then all outstanding amounts could become immediately due and payable. If, in such a circumstance, any of the holders of the Senior Notes, accelerate the repayment of such indebtedness, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness. Interest rate fluctuations may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in the event that the Company draws down on the Revolving Credit Facility or in respect of any future issuances of debt. The interest rate in respect of the Senior Notes is fixed at 3.64% for the five year term of the agreement. The Revolving Credit Facility bears interest at LIBOR plus a margin. There were no amounts drawn on the Revolving Credit Facility at December 31, 2015. The Company is therefore subject to interest rate volatility in respect of any future draw down on the Revolving Credit Facility or in respect of any future issuances of debt. Risk Related to Our Common Stock Volatility in the market price of our common stock could lead to losses by investors. The market price of our common stock has experienced volatility in the past and may experience volatility in the future which could lead to losses for investors. Factors impacting volatility in the market price of our common stock include, amongst others: ● our results of operations; ● issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; ● developments impacting the industry or our competitors and general market and economic conditions; ● introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; ● the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; ● guidance, if any, that we provide to the public, any changes in this guidance or failure to meet this guidance; ● changes in the credit ratings of our debt; ● sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock; ● additions or departures of key personnel; ● regulatory or political developments; ● litigation and governmental investigations; ● changing economic conditions; and ● exchange rate fluctuations. 15 In addition, stock markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Future fluctuations in stock markets may lead to volatility in the market price of our common stock which could lead to losses by investors. 16 