ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this annual report, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us. You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this Risk Factors section and elsewhere in this annual report could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Natural gas and crude oil prices fluctuate widely, and low prices could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our revenue, profitability and future growth depend in part on prevailing natural gas, NGL and crude oil prices. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The amount we can borrow under our Senior Secured Credit Facility is subject to periodic redetermination based in part on changing expectations of future prices. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil that we can economically produce. While prices for natural gas and crude oil may be favorable at any point in time, they fluctuate widely, particularly as evidenced by price movements in the latter half of 2008. Among the factors that can cause these fluctuations are: • domestic and foreign demand for natural gas and crude oil; • the level of domestic and foreign natural gas and crude oil supplies; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations; • impact of trade organizations, such as OPEC; • political conditions in oil and natural gas producing regions; and • worldwide economic conditions. Due to the volatility of natural gas and crude oil prices and our inability to control the factors that influence them, we cannot predict future pricing levels. If natural gas or crude oil prices decrease, our exploration and development efforts are unsuccessful or our costs increase substantially, we may be required to recognize impairment expenses on our oil and gas properties. We employ the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas properties, whereby all costs associated with acquiring, exploring for, and developing natural gas and crude oil reserves are capitalized and accumulated in separate country cost centers. These capitalized costs are amortized based on production from the reserves for each country cost center. Each capitalized cost pool cannot exceed the net present value of the underlying natural gas, NGL and crude oil reserves. Impairment to the carrying value of our oil and gas properties was recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008 and could occur again in the future if natural gas, NGL or crude oil prices at a reporting period end result in significantly decreased value of our reserves. Increased operating and capitalized costs without incremental increases in natural gas and crude oil reserves could also trigger impairment based on reduced value of our reserves. In the event of impairment, we recognize expense in the amount of the impairment, which could be material and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate and any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating natural gas, NGL and crude oil reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any 19 Table of Contents significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves disclosed in this annual report. In order to prepare these estimates, we and independent reserve engineers engaged by us must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We and the engineers must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions with respect to natural gas and crude oil prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Therefore, estimates of natural gas, NGL and crude oil reserves are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, natural gas, NGL and crude oil prices and revenue, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable natural gas and crude oil reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves disclosed in this annual report. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing petroleum prices and other factors, which may be beyond our control. At December 31, 2008, approximately 37% of our estimated proved reserves were undeveloped. Undeveloped reserves, by their nature, are less certain than comparable developed reserves. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires additional capital expenditures and successful drilling and completion operations. Our reserve data assumes that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop our reserves. Although we have prepared estimates of our reserves and the costs associated with them in accordance with industry standards, there is risk that the estimated costs are inaccurate, that development will not occur as scheduled or that actual results will not be as estimated. The present value of future net cash flows disclosed in Item 8 of this annual report is not necessarily the fair value of our estimated proved natural gas and crude oil reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on prices and costs as of period end. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Any changes in consumption by natural gas, NGL and crude oil purchasers or in governmental regulations or taxation will also affect actual future net cash flows. The timing of both the production and the expenses from the development and production of natural gas and crude oil properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves and their present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor. The effective interest rate at various times and the risks associated with our business or the oil and natural gas industry in general will affect the appropriateness of the 10% discount factor in arriving at the reserves’ actual fair value. Our production is concentrated in a small number of geographic areas. Approximately 75% of our 2008 production was from Texas and approximately 24% was from Alberta, Canada. Because of our concentration in these geographic areas, any regional events that increase costs, reduce availability of equipment or supplies, reduce demand or limit production, including weather and natural disasters, may impact us more than if our operations were more geographically diversified. Our Canadian operations present unique risks and uncertainties, different from or in addition to those we face in our domestic operations. In addition to the various risks associated with our U.S. operations, risks associated with our operations in Canada, where we have substantial operations, include, among other things, risks related to increases in taxes and governmental royalties, changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies, currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations. Laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade and taxation may also adversely affect our Canadian operations. 20 Table of Contents We may have difficulty financing our planned growth. We have experienced capital expenditure and working capital needs, particularly as a result of our property acquisition and drilling activities. For 2009, we plan to operate our capital program within our operating cash flows. However, in the future, we may require additional financing above the level of cash generated by our operations to fund our growth. If revenue decreases as a result of lower petroleum prices or otherwise, our ability to expend the capital necessary to replace our reserves or to maintain production of current levels may be limited, resulting in a decrease in production over time. If our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to satisfy our capital expenditure requirements, we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. In the event additional capital resources are unavailable, we may curtail our activities or be forced to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis. We are vulnerable to operational hazards, transportation dependencies, regulatory risks and other uninsured risks associated with our activities. The oil and natural gas business involves operating hazards such as well blowouts, explosions, uncontrollable flows of crude oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, treatment plant “downtime”, pipeline ruptures or spills, pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks, any of which could cause us to experience substantial losses. Also, the availability of a ready market for our natural gas and crude oil production depends on the proximity of reserves to, and the capacity of, natural gas and crude oil gathering systems, treatment plants, pipelines and trucking or terminal facilities. U.S. and Canadian federal, state and provincial regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce and market our natural gas, NGLs and crude oil. In addition, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by previous owners of properties purchased or leased by us. As a result of operating hazards, regulatory risks and other uninsured risks, we could incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of such risks and losses in accordance with customary industry practice. Generally, environmental risks are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not covered, or not fully covered, by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure to replace our reserves could adversely affect our production and cash flows. Our future success depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional reserves that are economically recoverable. Our proved reserves will generally decline as reserves are produced, except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration or development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves. In order to increase reserves and production, we must continue our development drilling and recompletion programs or undertake other replacement activities. Our current strategy is to maintain our focus on low-cost operations while increasing our reserve base and production through exploration and development of our existing properties. Our planned exploration or development projects or any acquisition activities that we may undertake might not result in meaningful additional reserves and we might not have continuing success drilling productive wells. Furthermore, while our revenue may increase if prevailing petroleum prices increase materially, our finding costs also could increase. We have risk through our investment in BBEP. We own a 41% limited partner interest in BBEP from which we expect to receive distributions. We have no management oversight over BBEP, its financial condition, its operating results or its financial reporting process and are subject to the risks associated with BBEP’s business and operations. Moreover, the management of BBEP has discretion over the amount, if any, that they distribute to unitholders. The nature of our ownership interest in a publicly-traded entity subjects us to market risks associated with most ownership interests traded on a public exchange. Sales of substantial amounts of BBEP limited 21 Table of Contents partner units, or a perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our BBEP limited partner units, which could result in an impairment to the value of our limited partner interest in BBEP. We have risk through our ownership of KGS. Through our ownership interest in KGS, we share in KGS’ results of operations and may be entitled to distributions from KGS. Accordingly, we have diminished control over assets owned by KGS and assets which KGS has a right to acquire. We are also subject to the risks associated with KGS’ business and operations, including, but not limited to: • changes in general economic conditions; • fluctuations in natural gas prices; • failure or delays in us and third parties achieving expected production from natural gas projects; • competitive conditions in the midstream industry; • actions taken on non-performance by third parties, including suppliers, contractors, operators, processors, transporters and customers; • changes in the availability and cost of capital; • operating hazards, natural disasters, weather-related delays, casualty losses and other matters beyond our control; • construction costs or capital expenditures exceeding estimated or budgeted amounts; • the effects of existing and future laws and governmental regulations; • the effects of future litigation; and • other factors discussed in KGS’ Annual Report on Form 10-K and as are or may be detailed from time to time in KGS’ public announcements and other filings with the SEC. We cannot control the operations of gas processing and transportation facilities we do not own or operate. We deliver our Canadian production to market primarily by either the TransCanada or ATCO systems. We have no influence over the operation of these facilities and must depend upon their owners to minimize any loss of processing and transportation capacity. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent on a relatively small group of key management personnel, including our executive officers. There is a risk that the services of all of these individuals may not be available to us in the future. Because competition for experienced personnel in our industry can be intense, we may be unable to find acceptable replacements with comparable skills and experience and their loss could have an adverse effect on us. Competition in our industry is intense, and we are smaller and have a more limited operating history than many of our competitors. We compete with major and independent oil and natural gas companies for property acquisitions. We also compete for the equipment and labor required to develop and operate our properties. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. In addition, larger competitors may be able to absorb the burden of any changes in federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. These competitors may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive natural gas and crude oil properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than we can. Our ability to explore for natural gas and crude oil prospects and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend on our ability to conduct operations, to evaluate and select suitable properties and to complete transactions in this highly competitive environment. Furthermore, the oil and natural gas industry competes with other industries in supplying the energy and fuel needs of industrial, commercial, and other consumers. 22 Table of Contents Hedging our production may result in losses or limit our ability to benefit from price increases. To reduce our exposure to petroleum price fluctuations, we have entered into financial hedging arrangements which may limit the benefit we would receive from increases in petroleum prices. These hedging arrangements also expose us to risk of financial losses in some circumstances, including the following: • our production could be materially less than expected; or • the other parties to the hedging contracts could fail to perform their contractual obligations. The result of natural gas market prices exceeding collar ceilings requires us to make monthly cash payments. If we choose not to engage in hedging arrangements in the future, we could be more affected by changes in natural gas, NGL and crude oil prices than our competitors who engage in hedging arrangements. Delays in obtaining oil field equipment and increases in drilling and other service costs could adversely affect our ability to pursue our drilling program and our results of operations. At higher natural gas, NGL and oil prices, increased demand results in increased costs for drilling equipment, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. We cannot be certain that we could obtain necessary drilling equipment and supplies in a timely manner or on satisfactory terms, and we may experience shortages of, or material increases in the cost of, drilling equipment, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services during periods of high petroleum prices. Any such delays and price increases could adversely affect our ability to pursue our drilling program and our results of operations. Our activities are regulated by complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Natural gas, NGL and crude oil operations are subject to various U.S. and Canadian federal, state, provincial and local government laws and regulations that could change in response to economic or political conditions. Matters that are typically regulated include: • discharge permits for drilling operations; • water obtained for drilling purposes; • drilling permits and bonds; • reports concerning operations; • spacing of wells; • disposal wells; • unitization and pooling of properties; • environmental protection; and • taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of natural gas and crude oil wells below actual production capacity to conserve supplies of natural gas and crude oil. We also are subject to changing and extensive tax laws, the effects of which cannot be predicted. The development, production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of natural gas and crude oil, by-products and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with our operations are also subject to laws and regulations primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment. The discharge of natural gas, crude oil or pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to significant liabilities on our part to the government and third parties and may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties or require us to incur substantial costs of remediation. Legal and tax requirements frequently are changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We cannot assure you that existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations, will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents The risks associated with our debt could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and such risk could increase if we incur more debt. Subject to the limits contained in our various loan agreements and indentures, we may incur additional debt. Our ability to borrow under our Senior Secured Credit Facility is subject to the quantity and value of our proved reserves and other assets, including our units owned in BBEP. If we incur additional debt or fail to increase the quantity and value of our proved reserves, the risks that we now face as a result of our indebtedness could intensify. We have demands on our cash resources in addition to interest expense, including operating expenses, principal payments under our debt and funding of our capital expenditures. Our level of debt relative to our proved reserves and these significant demands on our cash resources could have important effects on our business and on the value of our securities. For example, they could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • require us to make principal payments if the quantity and value of our proved reserves are insufficient to support our level of borrowings; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the oil and natural gas industry; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may have lower debt service obligations and greater financing flexibility than we do; • limit our financial flexibility, including our ability to borrow additional funds; • increase our interest expense on our variable rate borrowings if interest rates increase; • limit our ability to make capital expenditures to develop our properties; • increase our vulnerability to exchange risk associated with Canadian dollar denominated indebtedness; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and • result in default in the event of a failure to comply with covenants contained in our debt agreements, which, if not cured or waived, could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to pay principal and interest on our long-term debt and to satisfy our other liabilities will depend upon our future performance and our ability to refinance our debt as it becomes due. Our future operating performance and ability to refinance will be affected by economic and capital markets conditions then prevailing and other factors which may be beyond our control. If we are unable to service our debt and fund our operating costs, we will be forced to adopt alternative strategies that may include: • reducing or delaying capital expenditures; • seeking additional debt financing or equity capital; • selling assets; or • restructuring or refinancing debt. We cannot assure you that we would be able to implement any of these strategies on satisfactory terms, if at all, and our inability to do so could cause the holders of our securities to experience a partial or total loss of their investment in us. Our debt agreements restrict our ability to engage in certain activities. Our debt agreements restrict our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • make certain investments; • incur or permit certain liens to exist; • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; • merge, consolidate or amalgamate with another company; 24 Table of Contents • transfer or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; and • redeem subordinated debt. Our debt agreements, among other things, also require the maintenance of financial covenants that are more fully described in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this annual report. Our ability to satisfy these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to satisfy such covenants and requirements in the future. In addition, our ability to borrow under our Senior Secured Credit Facility is dependent upon the quantity and value of our proved reserves. The covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a breach of the restrictive or financial covenants in our debt agreements could result in an event of default. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, the applicable creditors could, subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable agreement, elect to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. Moreover, any of our debt agreements that contain a cross-default or cross-acceleration provision could also be subject to acceleration. If we were unable to repay the accelerated amounts, the creditors could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such debt. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such debt in full. The above restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing and may prevent us from taking advantage of attractive business opportunities. Parties with whom we do business may become unable or unwilling to timely perform their obligations to us. We enter into contracts and transactions with various third parties, including contractors, suppliers, customers, lenders and counterparties to hedging arrangements, under which such third parties incur performance or payment obligations to us. Any delay or failure on the part of one or more of such third parties to perform their obligations to us could, depending upon the nature and magnitude of such failure or failures, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A small number of existing stockholders exercise significant control over our company, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of stockholder votes. Members of the Darden family, together with entities controlled by them, beneficially own approximately 30% of our common stock as of December 31, 2008. As a result, they are generally able to significantly affect the outcome of stockholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our charter or bylaws and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. A large number of our outstanding shares and shares to be issued upon conversion of our outstanding convertible debentures or exercise of our outstanding options may be sold into the market in the future, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is performing well. Our shares that are eligible for future sale may adversely affect the price of our common stock. There were more than 167 million shares of our common stock outstanding at December 31, 2008. Approximately 116 million of these shares are freely tradable without substantial restriction or the requirement of future registration under the Securities Act. In addition, when the necessary restrictions for our contingently convertible debentures are satisfied and become convertible at the holders’ option, based on the conversion rate, an aggregate of 9,816,270 shares of our common stock could be issued. We also had 1,103,336 options outstanding to purchase shares of our common stock at December 31, 2008 as detailed in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this annual report. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or a perception that such sales could occur, and the existence of conversion and option rights to acquire shares of common stock at prices that may be below the then current market price of the common stock, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. 25 Table of Contents Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, restated bylaws and stockholder rights plan contain provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change of control without our board of directors’ approval. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws contain provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change of control without our board of directors’ approval. In this regard: • our board of directors is authorized to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; • our board of directors is classified; and • advance notice is required for director nominations by stockholders and actions to be taken at annual meetings at the request of stockholders. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan which could also impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us, even if that change of control might be beneficial to stockholders, thus increasing the likelihood that incumbent directors will retain their positions. In certain circumstances, the fact that corporate devices are in place that will inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 