Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 17 Item 2. Properties 17 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 17 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 18 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 19 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 22 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 42 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 43 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 96 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 96 Item 9B. Other Information 96 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 96 Item 11. Executive Compensation 97 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 97 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 97 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 98 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 98 Signatures 101 Stock Plan for Non-Management Directors Supplementary Retirement Account Plan 401(k) Profit Sharing Plan The Stock Appreciation and Phantom Stock Unit Plan Employee Stock Purchase Plan Deferred Compensation Plan Incentive Compensation Plan Stock Incentive Plan Amendment to Employment Agreement Second Amendment to Term Loan Agreement Subsidiaries of the Company Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Certification of the CEO and President Certification of the Senior VP, CFO and Treasurer Section 1350 Certification of the CEO and President Section 1350 Certification of the Senior VP, CFO and Treasurer Table of Contents [Page Intentionally Left Blank] Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Collective Brands, Inc. (“Collective Brands” or the “Company”) is a leader in bringing compelling lifestyle, fashion and performance brands for footwear and related accessories to consumers worldwide. We operate strategic business units covering a powerful brand portfolio, as well as multiple price points and selling channels including retail, wholesale, ecommerce and licensing. Collective Brands is the holding company for Payless ShoeSource, Inc. (“Payless”), The Stride Rite Corporation (“Stride Rite”), and Collective International, LP (“Collective Licensing”). Payless is one of the largest footwear specialty retailers in the Western Hemisphere. It is dedicated to democratizing fashion and design in footwear and accessories and inspiring fun, fashion possibilities for the family at a great value. Stride Rite markets the leading brand of high-quality children’s shoes in the United States as well as products for children and adults under well-known brand names, including Stride Rite®, Robeez®, Sperry Top-Sider®, Saucony® and Keds®. Collective Licensing is a youth lifestyle marketing and global licensing business. All references to years are to our fiscal year unless otherwise stated. Fiscal year 2007 ended on February 2, 2008. Payless is one of the largest footwear retailers in the Western Hemisphere, with 4,552 retail stores in 15 countries and territories as of year-end 2007. Our Payless ShoeSource retail stores in the United States, Canada, the Caribbean, Central America, and South America sold nearly 170 million pairs of footwear and approximately 40 million units of accessories during fiscal 2007. Payless ShoeSource stores sell a broad assortment of quality footwear, including athletic, casual and dress shoes, sandals, work and fashion boots, slippers, and accessories such as handbags and hosiery. Payless ShoeSource stores offer fashionable, quality, private and branded label footwear and accessories for women, men and children at affordable prices in a self-selection shopping format. Our stores feature several designer and mainstream footwear brands including Abaete for Payless™, Airwalk®, American Eagle™, Champion®, and Dexter®. We seek to compete effectively by getting to market with differentiated, trend-right merchandise before mass-market discounters and at the same time as department and specialty retailers but at a more compelling value. As of year-end 2007, each Payless ShoeSource store stocked on average approximately 6,600 pairs of footwear. We focus our marketing efforts on women consumers between the ages of 18 and 44 with household incomes of less than $75,000. We believe this group of consumers makes a disproportionately large share of household footwear purchasing decisions. We believe that approximately one-third of these target consumers purchased at least one pair of footwear from our stores last year. Payless also operates a shoe dyeing unit called Dyelights®, in which customers order custom-dyed shoes usually for occasions such as weddings. In addition, we operate payless.com® where customers can buy our products on-line and store associates can order products for customers that are not sold in all of our stores. Stride Rite is the leading marketer of high quality children’s footwear in the United States and is a major marketer of casual and athletic footwear for adults. Stride Rite was founded on the strength of the Stride Rite children’s brand, but today includes a portfolio of great American brands addressing different market segments within the footwear industry. Stride Rite is predominantly a wholesaler of footwear, selling its products mostly in North America in a wide variety of retail formats including premier department stores, independent shoe stores, value retailers and specialty stores. Stride Rite markets products in countries outside North America largely through owned operations, independent distributors and licensees. Stride Rite also markets its products directly to consumers by selling children’s footwear through its Stride Rite children’s retail stores and a broader selection of its footwear through Stride Rite outlet stores and e-commerce sites. In total, Stride Rite operated 340 retail locations as of the end of 2007. Stride Rite designs and markets children’s footwear, for consumers between the ages of six months and ten years, including dress and casual footwear, boots, sandals, athletic shoes and sneakers, in various styles. Those products are marketed under the Stride Rite®, Robeez®, and other brand names at moderate to premium price points. In addition, Stride Rite designs and markets marine performance footwear and outdoor recreational, hand-sewn, dress casual and casual footwear, and boots for adults under our Sperry Top-Sider® and Sperry® trademarks. Stride Rite also designs and markets technical running, athletic lifestyle, walking, and outdoor trail shoes and athletic apparel under the Saucony® brand name and casual footwear and sneakers for adults and children under the Keds® trademark. Additionally, Stride Rite designs casual footwear for women under the Grasshoppers® label. History Payless was founded in Topeka, Kansas in 1956 with a strategy of selling low-cost, high-quality family footwear on a self-service basis. In 1962, Payless became a public company. In 1979, it was acquired by The May Department Stores Company (“May Company”). On May 4, 1996, Payless became an independent public company again as a result of a spin-off from May Company. On March 30, 2007, we acquired Collective Licensing, a Denver-based brand development, management and 1 Table of Contents licensing company. On August 16, 2007, we changed our name to Collective Brands, Inc., and the next day we completed our acquisition of Stride Rite. Stride Rite was founded in Boston, Massachusetts in 1919, as the Green Shoe Manufacturing Company (“Green Shoe”). Green Shoe became a public company in 1960 and was listed on the New York Stock Exchange. It adopted The Stride Rite Corporation name in 1966 in recognition of its well respected brand name. Stride Rite’s first retail store was opened in 1972. The Sperry Top-Sider and Keds brand names were purchased from Uniroyal in 1979. During 2005 Stride Rite completed its acquisition of Saucony and in 2006 Stride Rite purchased Robeez. Our principal executive offices are located at 3231 Southeast Sixth Avenue, Topeka, Kansas 66607-2207, and our telephone number is (785) 233-5171. Our common stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “PSS.” Segments and Geographic Areas We operate our business in four reporting segments: Payless Domestic, Payless International, Stride Rite Retail and Stride Rite Wholesale. See Note 19 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion on financial results by segment. 1. The Payless Domestic reporting segment is comprised of retail stores under the Payless ShoeSource name in the U.S., the Company’s sourcing operations and Collective Licensing. 2. The Payless International segment includes retail operations in Canada; Puerto Rico; the U.S. Virgin Islands; the South American Region which includes Ecuador; and the Central American Region which includes Costa Rica, Guatemala, El Salvador, the Dominican Republic, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama and Trinidad and Tobago. Our operations in the Central and South American Regions are operated as joint ventures in which we maintain a 60-percent ownership interest. 3. The Stride Rite Retail reporting segment consists of Stride Rite’s retail children’s stores, outlet stores and the leased children’s shoe departments at Macy’s. 4. The Stride Rite Wholesale reporting segment consists primarily of Stride Rite’s wholesale operations which includes Stride Rite Children’s Wholesale Division, Keds, Saucony and Sperry Top-Sider. In addition, the segment includes sales to licensed dealers, international distributors and licensees. We sell footwear to approximately 8,000 customers in nearly 70 countries and territories worldwide. Stores At the end of 2007, we operated a total of 4,892 retail stores. This was comprised of 3,954 in the Payless Domestic segment, 598 stores in the Payless International segment, and 340 stores in the Stride Rite Retail segment. Payless Domestic The average size of a store in the Payless Domestic segment is approximately 3,200 square feet. Depending upon the season and the sales volume of the store, stores employ a widely varying number of associates including a store manager or shared store manager. Stores use a combination of full-time and part-time associates. By including materially remodeled stores in our calculation as new stores, Payless ShoeSource domestic stores were 13 years old on average at the end of 2007. At year-end, 407 stores had been updated to one of Payless’ new store formats. There were 385 “Hot Zones” and 22 “Fashion Labs"™. Payless ShoeSource stores operate in a variety of real estate formats such as shopping malls, central business districts, free-standing buildings, strip centers, and leased departments in ShopKo stores. At year-end, 435 locations incorporated a “Payless Kids” area which has nearly 1,000 additional square feet of selling space devoted to an expanded assortment of children’s shoes. In 1999, we entered into a 10-year strategic alliance with ShopKo Stores, Inc., a discount retailer with stores primarily in the Midwest, Western Mountain, and Pacific Northwest regions, through which we operate Payless ShoeSource shoe departments within ShopKo® stores. This alliance provides an additional distribution channel for our products. As of year-end, there were 132 of these locations, and they are included in the table below. 2 Table of Contents The number of retail stores by geographic region for the Payless Domestic segment is represented in the table below. Alabama 35 Alaska 8 Arkansas 40 Arizona 89 California 536 Colorado 55 Connecticut 45 District of Columbia 8 Delaware 9 Florida 289 Georgia 98 Hawaii 16 Iowa 33 Idaho 30 Illinois 186 Indiana 60 Kansas 35 Kentucky 33 Louisiana 58 Massachusetts 98 Maryland 73 Maine 13 Michigan 132 Minnesota 48 Missouri 77 Mississippi 48 Montana 14 North Carolina 63 North Dakota 6 Nebraska 34 New Hampshire 18 New Jersey 130 New Mexico 28 Nevada 36 New York 260 Ohio 134 Oklahoma 45 Oregon 50 Pennsylvania 157 Rhode Island 14 South Carolina 37 South Dakota 15 Tennessee 47 Texas 390 Utah 51 Virginia 78 Vermont 7 Washington 88 Wisconsin 78 West Virginia 14 Wyoming 5 Guam 2 Saipan 1 Total Domestic Segment Store Count 3,954 Payless International Since opening our first store in Canada in 1997, our international presence has grown substantially. We entered Latin America in September 2000. As of year-end, we had 598 stores in 10 countries, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. We intend to open our first Payless ShoeSource stores in Colombia in 2008. The average size of a store in the Payless International segment is approximately 2,800 square feet. Stores in Latin America tend to be smaller than stores in other locations because Latin America tends to have smaller shop spaces than North America. Securing a site large enough for Payless often requires assembling two or three contiguous spaces. We are actively pursuing opportunities to expand square footage for key locations in Latin America. By including materially remodeled stores in our calculation as new stores, our international stores were on average seven years old at the end of 2007. At year-end, 50 stores had been updated to one of our new store formats. There were 49 “Hot Zones” and one “Fashion Lab™”. Our international stores operate in a variety of real estate formats, including shopping malls, central business districts, free-standing buildings, and strip centers. 3 Table of Contents The number of retail stores by Province, Country and Territory for the Payless International segment is represented in the table below. Canada Alberta 41 British Columbia 41 Manitoba 10 New Brunswick 7 Nova Scotia 11 Ontario 142 Prince Edward Island 2 Quebec 52 Saskatchewan 11 Total Canada 317 Central America Region Costa Rica 22 Dominican Republic 16 El Salvador 21 Guatemala 38 Honduras 17 Nicaragua 12 Panama 18 Trinidad/Tobago 13 Total Central America 157 South America Region Ecuador 36 Puerto Rico 83 U.S. Virgin Islands 5 Total Payless International Segment Store Count 598 Stride Rite Retail Stride Rite retail children’s stores are located primarily in larger regional shopping centers, clustered generally in the major marketing areas of the U.S. The average size of a Stride Rite retail children’s store is approximately 1,700 square feet. Stride Rite outlet stores average approximately 2,800 square feet because outlet stores carry a broad range of footwear for adults in addition to children’s footwear. Most of our outlet stores are located in shopping centers consisting only of outlet stores. At the end of 2007, each Stride Rite retail store carried on average approximately 8,900 pairs of shoes. By including materially remodeled stores in our calculation as new stores, Stride Rite retail segment stores were on average approximately nine years old at the end of 2007. The number of retail stores by type for the Stride Rite Retail segment is represented in the table below. Stride Rite Children’s Stores 231 Outlet Stores 102 Leased Children’s Shoe Departments — Macy’s 7 Total Stride Rite Retail Stores 340 Stride Rite Wholesale In addition to the Stride Rite retail stores, we had 165 Stride Rite locations managed by licensed dealers (not included in the store count above) at the end of 2007. A licensed dealer is an independent shoe retailer that sells a high percentage of Stride Rite product, and who brands the store as Stride Rite both on the exterior and interior of the store. We generate sales from dealers by selling them our product. Dealers do not pay franchise or on-going fees. Stride Rite sales representatives monitor the dealers’ assortments and appearance. We give guidance to the dealers on store remodeling. Dealers are not obliged to participate in Stride Rite retail store promotions. 4 Table of Contents International Business During 2007, Collective Brands had $479.6 million, or 16%, of its sales from international locations. Our distribution is getting more diverse each year as international sales have tended to grow faster than our overall sales. Payless International Sales in 2007 were $427.0 million, up 6% versus the prior year. The 2007 operating profit from continuing operations was up 3%, led by strong results in our Latin America markets, which is an emerging market for Payless. As a result of our success in Latin America, we announced in 2007 that we will open our first stores in Colombia during 2008. Results from Colombia will be a part of the Payless International segment. Stride Rite Wholesale We sell footwear in nearly 70 countries and territories worldwide. We use our owned operations, independent distributors and licensees to market our various product lines outside of the United States. We record revenue from foreign sources through the sale of branded footwear products by our owned operations in Canada, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Germany, from sales in certain countries to independent distributors of our products, and from royalties to authorized licensees of our products. License and distribution arrangements enable us to develop sales in certain international markets without incurring development costs and the capital commitment required to maintain related foreign operations, employees, inventories or localized marketing programs. We assist in designing products that are appropriate to each foreign market, but are consistent with the global brand position. Independent licensees and distributors purchase goods from either us or authorized third-party manufacturers pursuant to distribution agreements or manufacture branded products consistent with our standards pursuant to license agreements. Distributors and licensees are responsible for independently marketing and distributing our branded products in their respective territories with product and marketing support provided by us. We are also a party to foreign license agreements in which independent companies operate Stride Rite and Keds retail stores outside the United States. A total of 11 Stride Rite and two Keds stores are currently operating in El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic and Venezuela pursuant to such agreements. Store and Wholesale Operations Management Collective Brands manages certain store operation functions, such as marketing, information technology and finance, in a mostly centralized fashion from its Topeka, Kansas and Lexington, Massachusetts corporate offices. The company also manages other store support functions, such as loss prevention and store-level human resources, in a more decentralized fashion. Payless Domestic and Payless International In general, each retail location is managed by a Store Manager. Store Managers report to District Managers who, in turn, report to Directors of Retail Operations. District Managers typically oversee 24 stores on average, and Directors of Retail Operations typically oversee, on average, 11 District Managers or 264 stores. Each of these positions is responsible for managing the operations of our stores including functions such as opening and closing, store displays, inventory management, staffing, and managing the customer experience. In 2007, we substantially completed our North American rollout of more technologically advanced point-of-sale terminals and inventory scanning devices, as well as our U.S. rollout of a new labor scheduling system. These technology improvements provide benefits such as faster checkout, easier tagging and inventory management, and more effective customer focused staffing. Stride Rite Retail Retail locations are managed by a Store Manager who reports to a District Manager. District Managers typically oversee approximately 25 stores. These positions are responsible for managing the operations of our stores including functions such as opening and closing, store displays, inventory management, and staffing. Stride Rite stores offer customers a more full-service experience such as retrieving shoes and personalized sizing and fitting of each child by trained specialists. Stride Rite Wholesale The Stride Rite Wholesale business is divided by major brands, each with their own dedicated sales forces. Generally each sales executive is assigned a specific geographic region. Employees At the end of 2007, Collective Brands employed over 31,000 associates worldwide. Nearly 28,000 associates worked in stores, while the remaining associates worked in other capacities such as corporate support, Asia-based procurement, licensing, 5 Table of Contents and distribution centers. Approximately 400 of our distribution center associates and 165 of our other associates are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our employee base at year-end was approximately 50% full-time and 50% part-time. Payless Domestic Approximately 24,000 associates at year-end worked in the Payless Domestic segment. The mix of full-time to part-time associates was about 40% and 60%, respectively. Payless International The Payless International segment employed over 3,400 associates at year-end. The mix of full-time to part-time associates was about 64% and 36%, respectively. Stride Rite Retail The Stride Rite Retail segment employed almost 2,200 associates at year-end. The mix of full-time to part-time associates was about 40% and 60%, respectively. Stride Rite Wholesale Almost 1,400 associates at year-end were employed in various sales and support capacities in the Stride Rite Wholesale segment. Nearly 100% were full-time. Competition As a multi-channel provider of footwear and accessories, we face several different forms of competition. The retail footwear and accessories market is highly competitive. It is comprised of department stores, footwear specialty stores, discount mass-merchandisers, sporting goods stores, and on-line competitors. In addition, many retailers who have not traditionally carried footwear have added various footwear and accessories including seasonal, specialty and general footwear in their merchandise assortment. The primary competitive levers to establish a point of differentiation in our industry are merchandise selection, flow and timing, pricing, fashion, product quality and aesthetics, convenience and in-store experience. Payless Domestic and Payless International We seek to compete effectively through our Payless segments by getting to market with differentiated, trend-right merchandise before mass-market discounters such as Wal-Mart and Target. Payless strives to get trend-right merchandise to market at the same time but at more compelling values than department stores and specialty retailers. Main competitors include Kohl’s, J.C. Penney, Macy’s, and Famous Footwear as well as ALDO and Sears Canada. Stride Rite Retail and Stride Rite Wholesale We believe that the creation of attractive styles, in multiple widths, together with specialized engineering for fit, durability, comfort, quality and high service standards are significant factors for Stride Rite to compete successfully in the marketing of all types of footwear. Stride Rite stores compete in the children’s retail shoe industry with numerous businesses, ranging from large retail chains to single store operators. The chains include The Children’s Place, Gymboree, Dillard’s and Nordstrom. On a wholesale level, Stride Rite competes with many suppliers of footwear. Stride Rite Wholesale’s most significant competitors include Crocs, Nike, Sketchers, Converse, Asics, Brooks, Timberland, Sebago, and Ecco. 6 Table of Contents Seasonality As an international multi-channel provider of footwear and accessories, we have operations that are impacted by certain seasonal factors — some of which are common across segments and channels while others are not. For the most part, our business is characterized by four high-volume seasons: Easter, the arrival of warm weather, back-to-school, and the arrival of cool weather. In preparation for each of these periods, we increase our inventory levels in our retail stores to support the increased demand for our products. For our wholesale business, we increase our inventory levels approximately three months in advance of these periods to support the increased demands from our wholesalers for these products. We offer styles particularly suited for the relevant season such as sandals in the spring and boots during the fall. Our cash position tends to be highest in June as well as September — October, due primarily to the arrival of warm weather and back-to-school, respectively. Our cash position tends to be lowest around February — March when Easter inventories are built-up but not yet sold-through. Payless Domestic Payless Domestic retail stores tend to have their highest inventory levels in preparation for the Easter selling season because customers tend to shop our stores for holiday-specific footwear and accessories. This is typically about 1-3 weeks in advance of the holiday. Seasonal sales volumes are typically highest for Payless Domestic in the first quarter, followed closely by the second quarter, and closely again by the third quarter. The arrival of warm weather and back-to-school are meaningful sales catalysts, but typically not quite as strong as Easter. Usually, the Payless Domestic segment has lower sales in the fourth quarter compared to the other three quarters. Footwear customer traffic during the fourth quarter tends to be lower because there are no significant catalysts and footwear tends to be less giftable than other retail alternatives. Payless International The Payless International seasonality tends to largely resemble Payless Domestic with one very important difference — a greater share of sales tends to come in December compared to Payless Domestic. In Puerto Rico and Latin America many workers get an incremental paycheck in preparation for the Christmas season and, compared to Payless Domestic, back-to-school and paydays are somewhat more important to Payless International. Stride Rite Retail Stride Rite Retail seasonality also tends to create higher volumes in the first half of the year versus the second half. Back-to-school tends not to be nearly as big, proportionally, as it is for the Payless segments because Stride Rite Retail’s customer base has traditionally been mostly pre-schoolers. Stride Rite Wholesale The Stride Rite Wholesale business is also customarily driven by Easter, warm weather’s arrival, back-to-school, and cool weather’s arrival. But as a wholesaler, the segment’s business is usually about three months earlier than Collective Brands’ other three segments which sell primarily at retail. Stride Rite Wholesale tends to have its highest inventory position around January to February and its lowest inventory position around the November to December time frame. Supply Chain We run an integrated supply chain that supports the product life-cycle from concept to liquidation across all reporting segments. In 2007, (for the full year for Payless and for the 24 weeks for which we owned Stride Rite) we sold 183 million pairs of footwear through retail and wholesale combined. Merchandise Planning & Allocation We are leveraging merchandise systems across our entire organization. We build and manage total inventory plans, targeted store assortments, and product lifecycles. Our objective is to get the right product to the right store at the right time through accurate distribution utilizing enhanced forecasting and demand planning models. We base our decisions on how to stock our stores using several criteria. We consider the customer profile of our store locations based on demographics, shopping behavior and appetite for fashion. Also, we consider seasonality and climate by geography which impacts the timing of our inventory distribution. In addition, we consider our stores’ sales volume, selling history, and the categories of products they tend to sell when deciding how to stock our stores. This results in greater customer connectivity which drives more profitable sales and less liquidation markdowns. Our systems provide perpetual planning and forecasting solutions and support multiple distribution centers. They also provide improved store-level size optimization, initial distribution planning, and case pack configuration information. 7 Table of Contents We create meaningful, relevant, and actionable store groupings that allow us to deliver targeted assortments based upon customer profiles of each store. We optimize price throughout a product’s life-cycle, as we can price products down to the store level. This helps us manage aged inventory and minimize it as a percentage of the total offering. We flow product consistent with customer shopping patterns. This drives efficiencies across the supply chain and stores. Our use of optimization tools enables store-level price variation which drives gross margin dollars and reduces markdowns. Sourcing We procure footwear three different ways — through our direct sourcing organization and by engaging third party agents or vendors to procure products which we cannot or do not want to procure ourselves. Our sourcing team is closely aligned with large factories which serve as our manufacturers. We typically give these factories specifications and performance standards and bid jobs out to multiple factories. Twenty-six core factories accounted for 72% of our footwear purchases. If any one of them was to be unable to supply our needs consistent with prior performance, we might experience disruptions in shoe deliveries. However, we have about 100 factories with whom we do run-over and special approval business, and we believe these factories can fill production voids if necessary. Our design, product development, and sourcing functions are integrated within our global supply chain organization. In the summer of 2007, we began operating a design office based in New York. This enables us to create trend-right proprietary designs and improves speed to market of new products. We have combined the China-based teams of Payless and Stride Rite to form one organization responsible for product development and sourcing. This team runs our sample creation and quality control processes. It also maintains a materials and costing library to provide greater efficiency and cost control in procuring raw materials. The integration of Payless and Stride Rite is aiding quality, factory loading, cost containment, and manufacturing efficiency. We are negotiating directly with suppliers of raw materials and requiring our factories to use our preferred suppliers much more often now than in the past. In 2007, we employed this process on less than 5% of our materials, relying instead on factories to perform that function. Our long-term goal is to specify preferred suppliers to factories for 80% of our raw materials. We believe our relationships with our factory base are good. Factories in China are a direct source of approximately 93% of our footwear at cost. We source most of the remaining 7% from Vietnam. Products are manufactured to meet our specifications and standards. We do not purchase “seconds” or “overruns”. Logistics We are in the process of capitalizing on areas of opportunity through consolidation of the Payless and Stride Rite distribution networks. These areas include: consolidation of ocean containers, sharing overseas consolidation services, leveraging container cube optimization, reducing transload operating costs, and leveraging inbound carrier rates. The benefits of extending and integrating our network are improved working capital management, stronger in-stock positions, higher inventory turnover, and gross margin improvement. During 2007, we reduced our days from order commitment-to-store (“supply chain days”) by six supply chain days versus the prior year. Through cross functional execution, process enhancements, and optimizing our physical distribution we intend to continue to decrease our supply chain days. Stores generally receive new merchandise on average twice a week in an effort to maintain a constant flow of fresh and replenished merchandise. We currently use nine distribution facilities worldwide: 1. We own a 850,000 square feet distribution center (“DC”) in Topeka, Kansas which serves approximately 3,500 Payless stores in North America. 2. We lease a 414,000 square feet DC in Redlands, California which serves approximately 1,000 Payless stores in North America. 3. We lease a 602,000 square feet DC in Brookville, Ohio which is planned to begin operation in the spring of 2009. 4. We contract with a third-party in Colon, Panama to operate a distribution facility for our Latin America operations. 5. We own a 520,000 square feet DC in Louisville, Kentucky which serves Stride Rite wholesale operations in the United States. 6. We own a 409,000 square feet DC in Huntington, Indiana which serves the Stride Rite retail stores and wholesale customers. 7. We lease 46,000 square feet of office and warehouse space in Cambridge, Ontario to support Stride Rite Canadian wholesale operations. 8 Table of Contents 8. We lease 42,000 square feet of warehouse space in Burnaby, British Columbia which serves the Stride Rite Canadian wholesale operations. 9. We lease 16,000 square feet of warehouse space in The Netherlands to support our European operations. Future Changes to Distribution Facilities a. We intend to expand the Ohio facility by approximately 200,000 square feet in 2009. b. The Topeka DC will close when the California and Ohio facilities are open and running to our satisfaction, most likely in the spring of 2009. c. The British Columbia facility will close in September 2008. d. The Indiana facility will close in mid-2009 and inventory will be distributed out of the Ohio and Kentucky facilities. Intellectual Property Through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, we own certain copyrights, trademarks, patents and domain names which we use in our business and regard as valuable assets. Payless Domestic and Payless International The trademarks and service marks used in our Payless business include Payless®, Payless ShoeSource®, Payless Kids®, Dyelights®, and various logos used on our Payless ShoeSource store signs and in advertising, including our traditional yellow and orange signage and our new orange and blue circle “P” logos. The domain names include Payless.com®, as well as derivatives of Payless ShoeSource. On May 18, 2006, we acquired from Jimlar Corporation the rights to the trademarks American Eagle™ and AE™ for use on footwear and certain accessories and related domain names. Currently, we have agreements in place regarding the following brands: Champion®, which expires on June 30, 2015; Dexter® which expires on December 31, 2014; Spalding®, which expires on June 1, 2008; and American Ballet Theatre ™, which expires on January 31, 2010. In 2006, we entered into agreements with Disney Enterprises, Inc. for use of various Disney properties and characters which expire on December 31, 2010. In March 2008, we entered into an agreement with MTV Networks/Viacom for use of its Nickelodeon property Blue’s Clues™, which expires December 31, 2010. We have agreements for development, licensing, marketing and distribution of Laura Poretzky’s Abaeté for Payless™ line, which expires on May 31, 2009; Lela Rose’s Lela Rose for Payless™ line, which expires on September 30, 2009; Stacey Bendet’s Alice + Olivia for Payless™ line, which expires on September 30, 2008 and Patricia Field’s Patricia Field for Payless™ and/or Red Carpet Collection by Patricia Field™ lines, which expires on December 31, 2008. We also currently have the exclusive right to use the Dunkman® brand. We, through agents, also utilize various character marks from time-to-time. Collective Licensing owns brand marks including Airwalk®, Vision Street Wear®, Lamar®, Hind®, LTD®, genetic®, Dukes®, Rage®, Ultra-Wheels®, and Skate Attack®. We license the Sims® brand mark. Collective Licensing’s focus is on the growing active sport lifestyle market driven predominantly by the skate- and snowboard-inspired trends. It is positioned with its authentic brand portfolio to reach both the younger consumer with strong ties to board sports, as well as appeal to the broad range of consumers drawn to this established lifestyle and fashion. Payless has been a licensee of the Airwalk brand since 2003 and features the brand on a wide range of footwear and accessories. Payless has helped drive Airwalk to be one of the largest skate footwear brands in America. Stride Rite Retail and Wholesale We have license agreements with a number of third parties both domestically and internationally pursuant to which apparel and accessories are designed, manufactured and sold under the Keds®, PRO-Keds®, and Stride Rite ® trademarks. We also have domestic and international license agreements for footwear through the Keds®, PRO-Keds®, Saucony®, Sperry Top-Sider® and Champion® trademarks. We continue to pursue new license opportunities. We have a three-year licensing agreement with an independent third party for the distribution of footwear under the PRO-Keds® brand in the United States, which expires in 2010. We have an existing trademark license agreement with Tommy Hilfiger Licensing, Inc., pursuant to which we design, market and sell footwear to adults and children. The license agreement for adult footwear expires on December 31, 2008. The license agreement for children’s footwear expires on December 31, 2009. Tommy Hilfiger Licensing, Inc. and its parent company, Tommy Hilfiger Corporation, have been acquired by Apax Partners. In 2008, we announced plans to end our licensing agreement with Tommy Hilfiger for adult footwear, effective January 1, 2009. Our license agreement for Tommy Hilfiger Kids footwear will expire at the end of calendar year 2009 and we do not anticipate that it will be renewed. 9 Table of Contents We have a licensing arrangement with H.H. Brown Shoe Company, Inc. to develop, market, and sell an exclusive line of children’s footwear under the Børn name. This license agreement runs through May 31, 2010 and covers the United States and Puerto Rico. In addition, we have entered into license agreements with the entertainer Jessica Simpson for the Jessica Simpson™ trademark which expires on December 31, 2009; and Wham-o, Inc. for the marks Superball®, which expires on December 31, 2008 and Boogie Board®, which expires on December 31, 2010. Backlog Stride Rite Wholesale As of February 2, 2008 we had a backlog of orders amounting to approximately $181 million. To a significant extent, the backlog at the end of each fiscal year represents orders for our spring footwear styles. Substantially all of these orders are delivered or canceled during the first quarter of the next fiscal year. In all of our wholesale businesses, reorders from retail customers are an important source of revenue to supplement the orders taken in advance of the season. Over the years, the importance of reorder activity to a season’s success has grown as customers, especially larger retailers, have placed increased reliance on orders during the season. Due to this variability between future orders and reorders, backlog does not necessarily translate directly into sales results. Environmental Liability In connection with the Stride Rite acquisition, we acquired a distribution facility with a related environmental liability. The liability as of February 2, 2008 was $6.5 million, $1.0 million of which was included as an accrued expense and $5.5 million of which was included in other long-term liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. The assessment of the liability and the associated costs were an estimate based upon available information after consultation with environmental engineers, consultants and attorneys assisting the Company in addressing these environmental issues in the fourth quarter of 2007. As of February 2, 2008, the estimated costs to address these environmental conditions ranged from $4.4 million to $8.8 million, including $0.9 million of costs that have already been paid. Actual costs to address the environmental conditions may change based upon further investigations, the conclusions of regulatory authorities about information gathered in those investigations and due to the inherent uncertainties involved in estimating conditions in the environment and the costs of addressing such conditions. Any changes to the estimated liability will be finalized as necessary, up to one year after the acquisition of Stride Rite’s closing date, when information that is known to be available or obtainable is obtained. Any changes to the liability within one year of this acquisition’s closing date will impact goodwill for this transaction. Available Information We file or furnish our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with the SEC electronically. Copies of any of these documents will be provided in print to any shareholder who submits a request in writing to Collective Brands, Inc., Attn: Investor Relations, 3231 Southeast Sixth Avenue, Topeka KS 66607 or calls our Investor Relations Department at (785) 559-5321. The public may read or copy any materials we file with the SEC at the Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 on official business days during the hours of 10:00 am and 3:00 pm. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. We maintain an investor relations website at www.collectivebrands.com. On our investor relations website, one can access free of charge our reports that are filed with the SEC, the Guidelines for our Board of Directors, and the charters for the Board of Directors, the Audit and Finance Committee and the Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee. Links are available at www.collectivebrands.com where customers can shop at their convenience. No portion of our website or the information contained in or connected to the website is a part of, or incorporated into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10 Table of Contents Directors of the Company Listed below are the names and present principal occupations or, if retired, most recent occupations of the Company’s Directors: Name Principal Occupation Management Director Matthew E. Rubel(1*) Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company Independent Directors Howard R. Fricke(1)(2)(3) Retired Chairman of the Board of the Security Benefit Group of Companies Daniel Boggan Jr.(3) Retired Senior Vice President of the National Collegiate Athletic Association Judith K. Hofer(4) Retail Consultant Mylle H. Mangum(1)(4*) Chief Executive Officer of IBT Enterprises, LLC John F. McGovern(1)(3*) Founder and Partner of Aurora Capital LLC and former Executive Vice President/Chief Financial Officer of Georgia-Pacific Corporation Robert F. Moran(3) President and Chief Operating Officer of PetSmart, Inc. David Scott Olivet(3) Chief Executive Officer and Director of Oakley, Inc. Michael A. Weiss(4) President and Chief Executive Officer of Express LLC Robert C. Wheeler(4) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Hill’s Pet Nutrition, Inc. (1) Executive Committee Member (2) Non-Executive Chairman of the Board (3) Audit and Finance Committee Member (4) Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee Member * Chairman Executive Officers of the Company Listed below are the names and ages of the executive officers of the Company as of April 4, 2008 and offices held by them with the Company. Name Age Position and title Matthew E. Rubel 50 Chief Executive Officer and President Darrel J. Pavelka 52 Executive Vice President — Global Supply Chain Douglas J. Treff 50 Executive Vice President — Chief Administrative Officer Jay A. Lentz 64 Senior Vice President — Human Resources Michael J. Massey 43 Senior Vice President — General Counsel and Secretary Ullrich E. Porzig 62 Senior Vice President — Chief Financial Officer Matthew E. Rubel is 50 years old and has served as Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company since July 18, 2005. Prior to joining Payless, Mr. Rubel was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for Cole Haan from 1999 to July 2005. He served as Executive Vice President, J. Crew Group and Chief Executive Officer of Popular Club Plan from 1994 to 1999, and in November 1998, led the sale of Popular from J. Crew to Fingerhut. While at J. Crew Group, Mr. Rubel was responsible for all licensing and international activities, as well as brand marketing and served on its Group Executive Committee. Mr. Rubel has also served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Pepe Jeans USA, and President of the Specialty Division of Revlon. Mr. Rubel has served as a Director of Payless since July 2005. Darrel J. Pavelka is 52 years old and has served as Executive Vice President — Global Supply Chain since September 2007. Prior to that he served as Senior Vice President — Merchandise Distribution, Planning and Supply Chain from September 2004 to September 2007. He also served as Senior Vice President — International Operations from March 2003 to September 2004, Senior Vice President - Merchandise Distribution from 1999 to 2003, Vice President of Retail Operations for Division R from 1997 to 1999, Vice President of Stores Merchandising from 1995 to 1997, Director of Stores Merchandising from 1990 to 1995, Director of Distribution for Women’s from 1987 to 1990, Manager of Stores Merchandising for Division R from 1983 to 1987, and Manager of the Northeast store expansion from 1980 to 1983. Douglas J. Treff is 50 years old and has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President — Chief Administrative Officer since September 2007. Prior to joining the Company, he served as Executive Vice President — Chief Administrative Officer for Sears Canada, Inc. from 2006 to 2007. From 2000 to 2006 he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for 11 Table of Contents Deluxe Corporation and from 1990 to 2000, as Chief Financial Officer and other leadership roles in finance at Wilsons, The Leather Experts, Inc. Jay A. Lentz is 64 years old and has served as Senior Vice President — Human Resources since May 2001. Prior to that he was Vice President of Organization Development from 1992 to 2001; and 1985 to 1990. From 1990 to 1992 he served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources for Payless Cashways Inc. He previously worked for Pizza Hut Inc., a division of PepsiCo, Inc., as Senior Director of Management Development, Arthur Young Co. as Manager, Organization Development Consulting, and The University of Missouri as a consulting psychologist. Michael J. Massey is 43 years old and has served as Senior Vice President — General Counsel and Secretary since March 2004. Prior to that he served as Vice President of International Development during 2001, Vice President of Contract Manufacturing during 2000, Vice President, Group Counsel Intellectual Property from 1998 to 2000, and Senior Counsel from 1996 to 1998. Prior to joining Payless, Mr. Massey was an attorney for The May Department Stores Company from 1990 to 1996. Ullrich E. Porzig is 62 years old and has served as Senior Vice President — Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since February, 1996. Between 1993 and 1996, Mr. Porzig was Senior Vice President-Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Petro Stopping Centers L.P. From 1982 to 1993 he was employed by The May Department Stores Company in various capacities including Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Foley’s from 1988 to 1993. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We May be Unable to Compete Effectively in the Competitive Worldwide Footwear Retailing Industry We face a variety of competitive challenges from other domestic and international footwear retailers, including a number of competitors that have substantially greater financial and marketing resources than we do. These competitors include mass-market discount retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., and Target Corp.; department stores such as Kohl’s, J.C. Penney, Dillard’s and Nordstrom; other retailers such as Famous Footwear, The Children’s Place, and Gymboree; and wholesalers such as Crocs, Sketchers, and Nike. We compete with these footwear retailers on the basis of: • developing fashionable, high-quality merchandise in an assortment of sizes, colors and styles that appeals to our target consumers; • anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; • ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain effectiveness; • the pricing of merchandise; • creating an acceptable value proposition for consumers; • providing an inviting, customer friendly shopping environment; • using a customer focused sales staff to provide attentive, product knowledgeable customer service; and • providing strong and effective marketing support. Competition in the retail footwear industry has increased. Mass-market discount retailers aggressively compete with us on the basis of price and have added significant numbers of locations, gaining market share as a result. Accordingly, there is substantial pressure on us to maintain the value proposition of our footwear. In addition, it is possible that mass-market discount retailers will increase their investment in their retail footwear operations, thereby achieving greater market penetration and placing additional competitive pressures on our business. If we are unable to respond effectively to these competitive pressures, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. A Majority of our Operating Expenses are Fixed Costs that are not Directly Dependent Upon our Sales Performance. As a result, Declines in our Operating Performance may be Magnified if We are Unable to Reduce Expenses in Response to a Sales Shortfall A majority of our operating expenses are fixed costs that are not directly dependent on our sales performance, as opposed to variable costs, which increase as sales volume increases. These fixed costs include the leasing costs of our stores, our debt service expenses and the majority of our labor expenses. If our sales were to decline, we may be unable to reduce or offset these fixed operating expenses in the short term. Accordingly, the effect of any sales decline is magnified because a larger percentage of our earnings are committed to paying these fixed costs. As a result, our net earnings and cash flow could be disproportionately negatively affected as a result of a decline in sales. 12 Table of Contents We May be Unable to Maintain or Increase our Sales Volume and Margins Our Payless stores have a substantial market presence in all 50 states and the District of Columbia and we currently derive a significant majority of our revenue from our U.S. stores. Because of our substantial market presence, and because the U.S. footwear retailing industry is mature, for us to increase our sales volume on a unit basis and margins in the United States, we must capture market share from our competitors. We have attempted to capture additional market share through a variety of strategies; however, if we are not successful we may be unable to increase or maintain our sales volumes and margins in the United States, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. We May Have Unseasonable Weather Where our Stores are Concentrated We increase our inventory levels to support the increased demand for our products, as well as to offer styles particularly suited for the relevant season, such as sandals in the early summer season and boots during the winter season. If the weather conditions for a particular season vary significantly from those typical for such season, such as an unusually cold early summer or an unusually warm winter, consumer demand for the seasonally appropriate merchandise that we have available in our stores could be adversely affected and negatively impact net sales and margins. Lower demand for seasonally appropriate merchandise may leave us with an excess inventory of our seasonally appropriate products and/or basic products, forcing us to sell both types of products at significantly discounted prices and adversely affecting our net sales margins and operating cash flow. Consequently, our results of operations are highly dependent on somewhat predictable weather conditions. We May be Unable to Adjust to Constantly Changing Fashion Trends Our success depends, in large part, upon our ability to gauge the evolving fashion tastes of our consumers and to provide merchandise that satisfies such fashion tastes in a timely manner. The worldwide retailing footwear industry fluctuates according to changing fashion tastes and seasons, and merchandise usually must be ordered well in advance of the season, frequently before consumer fashion tastes are evidenced by consumer purchases. In addition, the cyclical nature of the worldwide footwear retailing industry also requires us to maintain substantial levels of inventory, especially prior to peak selling seasons when we build up our inventory levels. As a result, if we fail to properly gauge the fashion tastes of consumers, or to respond in a timely manner, this failure could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our merchandise and leave us with substantial unsold inventory. If that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which would negatively impact financial results. The results of our wholesale businesses are affected by the buying plans of our customers, which include large department stores, as well as smaller retailers. No customer accounts for 10% or more of our wholesale business. Our wholesale customers may not inform us of changes in their buying plans until it is too late for us to make the necessary adjustments to our product lines and marketing strategies. While we believe that purchasing decisions in many cases are made independently by individual stores or store chains, we are exposed to decisions by the controlling owner of a store chain, to decrease the amount of footwear products purchased from us. In addition, the retail industry periodically experiences consolidation. We face a risk that our wholesale customers may consolidate, restructure, reorganize or realign in ways that could decrease the number of stores or the amount of shelf space that carry our products. We also face a risk that our wholesale customers could develop in-house brands or utilize the private labeling of footwear products, which would negatively impact financial results. The Worldwide Footwear Retailing Industry is Heavily Influenced by General Economic Cycles Footwear retailing is a cyclical industry that is heavily dependent upon the overall level of consumer spending. Purchases of footwear and related goods tend to be highly correlated with the cycles of the levels of disposable income of our consumers. As a result, any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions could adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. We May be Unsuccessful in Opening New Stores or Relocating Existing Stores to New Locations, Adversely Affecting our Ability to Grow Our growth is dependent upon our ability to expand our retail operations by opening and operating new stores, as well as relocating existing stores to new locations, on a profitable basis. Our ability to open new stores and relocate existing stores to new locations on a timely and profitable basis is subject to various contingencies, some of which are beyond our control. These contingencies include our ability to: • locate suitable store sites; • negotiate acceptable lease terms; • build-out or refurbish sites on a timely and cost effective basis; 13 Table of Contents • hire, train and retain qualified managers and personnel; • obtain adequate capital resources; and • successfully integrate new stores into our existing operations. In addition, the opening of stores outside of the United States is subject to a number of additional contingencies, including compliance with local laws and regulations and cultural issues and, because we operate a number of our international stores under joint ventures, issues may arise in our dealings with our joint venture partners or their compliance with the joint venture agreements. We may be unsuccessful in opening new stores or relocating existing stores for any of these reasons. In addition, we cannot assure you that, even if we are successful in opening new stores or relocating existing stores, those stores will achieve levels of sales and profitability comparable to our existing stores. We Rely on Third Parties to Manufacture and Distribute Our Products We depend on contract manufacturers to manufacture the merchandise that we sell. If these contract manufacturers are unable to secure sufficient supplies of raw materials, or maintain adequate manufacturing and shipping capacity, they may be unable to provide us with timely delivery of products of acceptable quality. In addition, if the prices charged by these contractors increase for reasons such as increases in the price of raw materials, increases in labor costs or currency fluctuations, our cost of manufacturing would increase, adversely affecting our results of operations. We also depend on third parties to transport and deliver our products. Due to the fact that we do not have any independent transportation or delivery capabilities of our own, if these third parties are unable to transport or deliver our products for any reason, or if they increase the price of their services, including as a result of increases in the cost of fuel, our operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. We require our contract manufacturers to meet our standards in terms of working conditions and other matters before we are willing to contract with them to manufacture our merchandise. As a result, we may not be able to obtain the lowest possible manufacturing costs. In addition, any failure by our contract manufacturers to meet these standards, to adhere to labor or other laws or to diverge from our mandated labor practices, and the potential negative publicity relating to any of these events, could harm our business and reputation. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our contract manufacturers, and any of these manufacturers may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time. There is also substantial competition among footwear retailers for quality manufacturers. To the extent we are unable to secure or maintain relationships with quality manufacturers, our business could be harmed. There are Risks Associated with Our Importation of Products We import finished merchandise into the United States and other countries in which we operate from the People’s Republic of China and other countries. Substantially all of this imported merchandise is subject to: • customs duties and tariffs imposed by the governments of countries into which this merchandise is imported; and • penalties imposed for, or adverse publicity relating to, violations of labor and wage standards by foreign contractors. The United States and countries in which our merchandise is manufactured or imported may from time to time impose additional new quotas, tariffs, duties or other restrictions on our merchandise or adversely change existing restrictions or interpretation regarding the application timing. Any such changes could adversely affect our ability to import, and/or the cost of, our products and the results of operations of our business or interpretations of these items. Manufacturers in China are our major suppliers. During 2007, China was a direct source of approximately 93% of our merchandise based on cost. In addition to the products we import directly, a significant amount of the products we purchase from other suppliers has been imported from China. Any deterioration in the trade relationship between the United States and China or any other disruption in our ability to import footwear, accessories, or other products from China could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition to the risks of foreign sourcing stemming from international trade laws, there are also operational risks of relying on such imported merchandise. Our ability to successfully import merchandise derived from foreign sources into the United States is dependent on stable labor conditions in the major ports of the United States. Any instability or deterioration of the domestic labor environment in these ports, such as the work stoppage at West Coast ports in 2002, could result in increased costs, delays or disruption in product deliveries that could cause loss of revenue, damage to customer relationships or materially affect our business. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain our current Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (“C-TPAT”) status, it would increase the time it takes to get products into our stores. Such delays could materially impact our ability to move the current product in our stores to meet customer demand. Our International Operations are Subject to Political and Economic Risks In 2007, approximately 16% of our sales were generated outside the United States and almost all of our merchandise was manufactured outside the United States. We are accordingly subject to a number of risks relating to doing business internationally, any of which could significantly harm our business, including: • political and economic instability; • inflation; • exchange controls and currency exchange rates; • foreign tax treaties and policies; and • restrictions on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries. Our financial performance on a U.S. dollar denominated basis is also subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. These fluctuations could cause our results of operations to vary materially. From time to time, we may enter into agreements seeking to reduce the effects of our exposure to currency fluctuations, but these agreements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to currency fluctuations or may not be available at a cost effective price. We are not currently entered into any of these agreements. We May be Unable to Effectively Protect Our Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property Rights We believe that our trademarks and other intellectual property are important to our business and are generally sufficient to permit us to carry on our business as presently conducted. We cannot, however, know whether we will be able to secure patents or trademark protection for our intellectual property in the future or whether that protection will be adequate for future products. Further, we face the risk of ineffective protection of intellectual property rights in the countries where we source and distribute our products. Finally, we cannot be sure that our activities will not infringe on the proprietary rights of others. If we are compelled to prosecute infringing parties, defend our intellectual property or defend ourselves, we will incur additional costs. We May be Subject to Liability if We Infringe the Trademarks or Other Intellectual Property Rights of Third Parties We may be subject to liability if we infringe the trademarks or other intellectual property rights of third parties. If we were to be found liable for any such infringement, we could be required to pay substantial damages and could be subject to injunctions preventing further infringement. Such payments and injunctions could adversely affect our financial results. See also “Legal Proceedings,” included in this Form 10-K. We Rely on Brands We Do Not Own We are increasing our reliance on brands, some of which we do not own. Currently, we have agreements in place regarding the following brands, among others: Champion®, which expires on June 30, 2015; Dexter® which expires on December 31, 2014; American Ballet Theatre ™, which expires on January 31, 2010; and various Disney properties and characters, which expire on December 31, 2010. We, through our agents, also utilize various character marks from time-to-time. If we are unable to renew or replace any brand or character that accounts for a significant portion of its revenue, our results could be adversely affected. Adverse Occurrences at Our Topeka Distribution Center Could Negatively Impact Our Business We operate a distribution center in Topeka, Kansas, which serves as the main source of replenishment of inventory for our stores. In comparison to our total distribution network, the distribution needs of our stores are heavily dependent on products delivered through our Topeka distribution center. If complications arise with our Topeka distribution center or our Topeka distribution center is severely damaged or destroyed, our other distribution centers may not be able to support the resulting additional distribution demands and we may be unable to locate alternative persons or entities capable of doing so. This may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory to our stores on a timely basis, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Integration Risks of New Distribution Facilities Could Negatively Impact Our Business If we are unable to smoothly transition product flow within our new distribution infrastructure, there could be delays in shipping products to stores. If product arrives late in the selling cycle, we could be forced to mark down or use other promotions to liquidate such inventory which could adversely affect our results of operations. We May Be Unable to Attract and Retain Talented Personnel Our success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified and talented individuals. If we are unable to attract or retain key executives, including senior management, marketing and merchandising personnel, it could impede the further development of our business strategy, reduce our revenue and decrease our operational effectiveness. Prolonged Work Stoppages Could Adversely Affect our Results of Operations At the end of 2007, nearly 600 of our employees, including substantially all of our non-management employees at our Topeka distribution center, were covered by collective bargaining agreements. We cannot assure you that these agreements will be renewed on similar terms or renegotiated on acceptable terms. Any prolonged work stoppages in one or more of our facilities could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Although there have been no work stoppages or disruptions since the inception of these collective bargaining agreements, we cannot assure you that there will be no disruptions in the future. If more of our employees unionize, it could result in demands that may increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our profitability. If any group of our employees were to unionize and we were unable to reach agreement on the terms of their collective bargaining agreement or we were to experience widespread employee dissatisfaction, we could be subject to work slowdowns or stoppages. In addition, we may be subject to disruptions by organized labor groups protesting the non-union status of the majority of our employees. Any of these events would be disruptive to our operations and could harm our business. An Outbreak of Asian Flu or Other Similar Infectious Diseases May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Ability to Purchase Merchandise from Manufacturers and Our Operations Generally An outbreak and spread of infectious diseases such as Asian flu in Southern China and other countries in which our manufacturers are located could impact the availability or timely delivery of merchandise. Although our ability to purchase and import our merchandise has not been negatively impacted to date, an outbreak of infectious diseases could prevent the manufacturers we use from manufacturing our merchandise or hinder our ability to import those goods to the countries in which our stores are located, either of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Unstable Credit Markets Could Affect Our Ability to Obtain Financing In the event we need additional financing, there can be no assurances that these funds will be available on a timely basis or on reasonable terms. Failure to obtain such financing could constrain our ability to operate or grow the business. In addition, any ratings downgrade of our securities, or any negative impacts on the credit market, generally, could negatively impact the cost or availability of capital. We believe operating cash flows and current credit facilities will be adequate to fund our working capital requirements, scheduled debt repayments, and to support the development of our short-term and long-term operating strategies. There are Risks Associated with Our Acquisitions Any acquisitions or mergers by us will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of companies. These risks include, among other things, higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses, the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the companies and the loss of key employees and customers as a result of changes in management. In addition, geographic distances may make integration of acquired businesses more difficult. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions. Our acquisitions may cause large one-time expenses or create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant asset impairment charges in the future. We also make certain estimates and assumptions in order to determine purchase price allocation and estimate the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities. If our estimates or assumptions used to value acquired assets and liabilities are not accurate, we may be exposed to gains or losses that may be material. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 