Item 1A. Risk Factors Declines in average selling prices (“ASPs”) in the hard drive industry adversely affect our operating results. The hard drive industry historically has experienced declining ASPs. Our ASPs tend to decline when competitors lower prices as a result of decreased costs or to absorb excess capacity, liquidate excess inventories, restructure or attempt to gain market share. Our ASPs also decline when there is a shift in the mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products increase relative to those of higher priced products. If ASPs in the hard drive industry continue to decline, then our ASPs will also likely decline, which would adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to anticipate or timely respond to changes in the markets for hard drives, our operating results could be adversely affected. Over the past few years the consumer market for computers has shifted significantly towards lower priced systems. If we are not able to continue to offer a competitively priced hard drive for the low-cost PC market, our share of that market will likely fall, which could harm our operating results. The market for hard drives is also fragmenting into a variety of devices and products. Many industry analysts expect, as do we, that as content increasingly converts to digital technology from the older, analog technology, the technology of computers and consumer electronics will continue to converge, and hard drives will be found in many CE products other than computers. In addition, we expect that the consumer market for multi-media applications, including audio-video products, incorporating high capacity, and handheld consumer storage will continue to grow. However, because this market remains relatively new, accurate forecasts for future growth remain challenging. Moreover, some devices, such as personal video recorders and digital video recorders, or some new PC operating systems which allow greater consumer choice in levels of functionality, therefore allowing for greater market differentiation, may require attributes not currently offered in our products, resulting in a need to expend capital to develop new interfaces, form factors, technical specifications or hard drive features, increasing our overall operational expense without corresponding incremental revenue at this stage. If we are not successful in continuing to deploy our hard drive technology and expertise to develop new products for the emerging CE market, or if we are required to incur significant costs in developing such products, it may harm our operating results. Our prices and margins are subject to declines due to unpredictable end-user demand and oversupply of hard drives. Demand for our hard drives depends on the demand for systems manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. The demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for hard drives in any given period. As a result, the hard drive market has experienced periods of excess capacity which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories and intense price competition. If intense price competition occurs, we may be forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which could result in lower revenue and gross margins. Our failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results. The hard drive industry faces difficulties in accurately forecasting market and customer demand for its products. The variety and volume of products we manufacture is based in part on these forecasts. If our forecasts exceed actual market demand, or if market demand decreases significantly from our forecasts, then we could experience periods of product oversupply and price decreases, which could impact our financial performance. If our forecasts do not meet actual market demand, of if market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, which could result in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. We also use forecasts in making decisions regarding investment of our resources. For example, as the hard drive industry transitions from the Parallel Advanced Technology Attachment (“PATA”) interface to the SATA interface, we may invest more resources in the development of products using the SATA interface. If our forecasts regarding the replacement of the PATA interface with the SATA interface are inaccurate, we may not have products available to meet our customers’ needs. 16 Table of Contents In addition, although we receive forecasts from our customers, they are not obligated to purchase the forecasted amounts. In particular, sales volumes in the distribution channel are volatile and harder to predict than sales to our OEM or ODM customers. We consider these forecasts in determining our component needs and our inventory requirements. If we fail to accurately forecast our customers’ product demands, we may have inadequate or excess inventory of our products or components, which could adversely affect our operating results. Increases in areal density may outpace customers’ demand for storage capacity, which may lower the prices our customers are willing to pay for new products. Historically, the industry has experienced periods of variable areal density growth rates. When the rate of areal density growth increases, the rate of increase may exceed the increase in our customers’ demand for aggregate storage capacity. Furthermore, our customers’ demand for storage capacity may not continue to grow at current industry estimates as a result of developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital rights management or otherwise. These factors could lead to our customers’ storage capacity needs being satisfied with lower capacity hard drives at lower prices, thereby decreasing our revenue. As a result, even with increasing aggregate demand for storage capacity, our ASPs could decline, which could adversely affect our results of operations. A low cost structure is critical to our operating results and increased costs may adversely affect our operating margin. A low cost structure for our products, including critical components, labor and overhead, is critical to the success of our business and our operating results depend on our ability to maintain competitive cost structures on new and established products. If our competitors are able to achieve a lower cost structure for manufacturing hard drives, and we are unable to match their cost structure, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors. Shortages of commodity materials, or use by other industries of materials used in the hard drive industry, may increase our cost structure. There are costs for certain commodity materials, an increase in which increases our costs of manufacturing and transporting hard drives and key components. For example, shortages of materials such as steel, aluminum and precious metals increase our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate these increased costs. The variability in the cost of oil also affects our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to pass increased costs through to our customers. Additionally, there are certain limited supply materials, such as raw materials like nickel and steel as well as metals like neodymium and ruthenium, which are used in the manufacturing of hard drive components. If other high volume industry demands for any of these materials increase, our costs may increase which could have an adverse affect on our operating margins. Changes in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial results. Product life cycles lengthened over the four years beginning in calendar year 2002 due in large part to a decrease in the rate of hard drive areal density growth. However, with the use of perpendicular recording in hard drives beginning in calendar year 2006, we anticipate that the life cycle of these products may shorten. If product life cycles lengthen, we may need to develop new technologies or programs to reduce our costs on any particular product to maintain competitive pricing for that product. This may result in an increase in our overall expenses and a decrease in our gross margins, both of which could adversely affect our operating results. If product life cycles shorten, it may be more difficult to recover the cost of product development before the product becomes obsolete. Our failure to recover the cost of product development in the future could adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to make the technical innovations necessary to continue to increase areal density, we may fail to remain competitive. New products in the hard drive market typically require higher areal densities than previous product generations, posing formidable technical and manufacturing challenges. Higher areal densities require existing head and media technology to be improved or new technology developed to accommodate more data on a single disk. In addition, our introduction of new products during a technology transition increases the likelihood of unexpected quality concerns. Our 17 Table of Contents failure to bring high quality new products to market on time and at acceptable costs may put us at a competitive disadvantage to companies that achieve these results. A fundamental change in recording technology could result in significant increases in our operating expenses and could put us at a competitive disadvantage. The industry is developing and now implementing new recording technologies that enable greater recording densities than currently available using magnetoresistive head technology, including perpendicular and tunneling junction technology, each of which represent a significant change in fundamental recording technology. This shift in technology is difficult to implement and historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental change in technology, any manufacturer that fails to successfully and timely adjust their designs and processes to accommodate the new technology, fails to remain competitive. There are some technologies, such as current perpendicular-to-plane and heat assisted magnetic recording, that, if they can be implemented by a competitor on a commercially viable basis, will represent a revolutionary recording technology that could put us at a competitive disadvantage. As a result of these technology shifts, we could incur substantial costs in developing new technologies, such as, heads, media, and tools to remain competitive. If we fail to successfully implement these new technologies, or if we are significantly slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able to offer products with capacities that our customers desire. For example, new recording technology requires changes in the manufacturing process of media, which may cause longer production times and reduce the overall availability of media in the industry. Additionally, the new technology requires a greater degree of integration between heads and media which may lengthen our time of development of hard drives using this technology. Furthermore, as we attempt to develop and implement new technologies, we may become more dependent on suppliers to ensure our access to components that accommodate the new technology. These results would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. The difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost reduction. Storage capacity of the hard drive, as manufactured by us, is determined by the number of disks and each disk’s areal density. Areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk. Generally, the higher the areal density, the more information can be stored on a single platter. Historically, we have been able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through increases in areal density. Increases in areal density mean that the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost. However, because increasing areal density has become more difficult in the hard drive industry, such increases may require increases in component costs and other opportunities to reduce costs may not continue at historical rates. Additionally, increases in areal density may require us to make further capital expenditures on items such as new testing equipment needed as a result of an increased number of GB per platter. Our inability to achieve cost reductions could adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to maintain effective relationships with our major component suppliers, our supply of critical components may be at risk and our profitability could suffer. Under our business model, we do not manufacture many of the component parts used in our hard drives, however, for some of our product families, we do make most of our own heads, and we intend to make most of our own media following our planned acquisition of Komag. As a result, the success of our products depends on our ability to gain access to and integrate parts that are “best in class” from reliable component suppliers. To do so, we must effectively manage our relationships with our major component suppliers. We must also effectively integrate different products from a variety of suppliers, each of which employs variations on technology, which can impact, for example, feasible combinations of heads and media components. In August 2003, we settled litigation with a supplier who previously was the sole source of read channel devices for our hard drives. As a result of the disputes that gave rise to the litigation, our profitability was at risk until another supplier’s read channel devices could be designed into our products. Similar disputes with other strategic component suppliers could adversely affect our operating results. 18 Table of Contents Dependence on a limited number of qualified suppliers of components and manufacturing equipment could lead to delays, lost revenue or increased costs. Certain components are available from a limited number of suppliers. Because we depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain hard drive components and manufacturing equipment, each of the following could significantly harm our operating results: • an increase in the cost of such components or equipment; • an extended shortage of required components or equipment; • consolidation of key suppliers, such as the acquisition of Brilliant Manufacturing Limited by Nidec Corporation, the acquisition of Agere Systems Inc. by LSI Logic Corporation, and the planned acquisition of Alps Electric Co. Ltd.’s magnetic device division’s assets and related intellectual property by TDK Corp; • failure of a key supplier’s business process; or • the failure of key suppliers to remain in business, to remain independent merchant suppliers, to adjust to market conditions, or to meet our quality, yield or production requirements. Our future operating results may also depend substantially on our suppliers’ ability to timely qualify their components in our programs, and their ability to supply us with these components in sufficient volumes to meet our production requirements. A number of the components that we use are available from only a single or limited number of qualified outside suppliers, and may be used across multiple product lines. In addition, some of the components (or component types) used in our products are used in other devices, such as mobile telephones and digital cameras. If there is a significant simultaneous upswing in demand for such a component (or component type) from several high volume industries, resulting in a supply reduction, or a component is otherwise in short supply, or if a supplier fails to qualify or has a quality issue with a component, we may experience delays or increased costs in obtaining that component. For example, in the last year the hard drive industry faced a tightness in the availability of materials used in the manufacture of magnetic components, such as heads, media and magnets. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of materials used in the manufacture of magnetic components, or other necessary components, we may experience production delays which could cause us loss of revenue. If a component becomes unavailable, we could suffer significant loss of revenue. In addition, certain equipment we use in our manufacturing or testing processes is available only from a limited number of suppliers. Some of this equipment uses materials that at times could be in short supply. If these materials are not available, or are not available in the quantities we require for our manufacturing and testing processes, our ability to manufacture our products could be impacted, and we could suffer significant loss of revenue. Contractual commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying increased charges and cash advances for such components. To reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying components. As a result, we may be subject to cancellation charges if we cancel orders, which may occur when we make technology transitions or when our component needs change. In addition, we have entered into contractual commitments with component suppliers, such as suppliers of media, and may enter into contractual commitments with other component suppliers, in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those components, and enable us to purchase such components at favorable prices. Some of these commitments require or may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier, however these commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such components. Our high-volume hard drive manufacturing facilities, and the manufacturing facilities of many of our suppliers, are concentrated in Asia, and our planned media manufacturing facilities will be located in Asia, which subjects us to the risk of damage or loss of any of these facilities and localized risks to employees in these locations. Our high-volume hard drive manufacturing facilities are in Malaysia and Thailand and the manufacturing facilities of many of our suppliers are in Asia. Following our planned acquisition of Komag, we will also have media and substrate manufacturing facilities in Malaysia. A condition or event such as political instability, civil unrest or a power outage, or a fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster that adversely affects any of these facilities or our ability to manufacture could 19 Table of Contents limit the total volume of hard drives we are able to manufacture and result in a loss of sales and revenue and harm our operating results. Similarly, a localized health risk affecting our employees or the staff of our suppliers, such as a new pandemic influenza in Asia, could impair the total volume of hard drives that we are able to manufacture. Our head manufacturing operations include a single wafer fabrication facility in Fremont, California and a single head gimbal assembly facility in Bang Pa-In, Thailand, and our planned media operations will include four facilities in Malaysia, which subjects us to substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at either of these facilities are disrupted. As we have previously discussed in public statements, our business plan presently contemplates that we plan to design and manufacture approximately 70% to 80% of the heads required for the hard drives we manufacture. We fabricate wafers in our Fremont, California facility, and the wafers are then sent to our Thailand facility for slider fabrication and wafer slicing and HGA assembly and testing. Additionally, following our planned acquisition of Komag, we will manufacture the majority of our media and substrates in Malaysia facilities. A fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster, condition or event such as a power outage that adversely affects our facilities in Fremont, California or Bang Pa-In, Thailand, or in Malaysia following our planned acquisition of Komag, would significantly affect supply of our heads or media, respectively, and limit our ability to manufacture hard drives which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results. Following our planned acquisition of Komag, if we fail to successfully integrate Komag’s business into our operations in the expected time frame, or at all, it may adversely affect our future results. We believe that our planned acquisition of Komag will result in certain benefits, including certain cost, operational and other efficiencies and synergies. The success of our planned acquisition will be dependent on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from vertically integrating Komag’s business into our operations and Komag’s media technology with our head technology. Following the planned acquisition, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits on a timely basis, or at all, for a variety of reasons, including the following: • potential incompatibility of Komag’s operating systems with our operating systems; • failure to integrate Komag’s media technology with our head technology, or failure to leverage such integration, quickly and effectively; • failure to successfully manage relationships with Komag’s suppliers; • failure to successfully manage relationships with Komag’s other customers and the possibility of unanticipated claims from such parties; • failure to successfully manage relationships with our other media suppliers; • potential difficulties integrating and harmonizing financial reporting systems; and • the loss of key employees. If we are not able to successfully integrate Komag’s business and technology into our operations, the anticipated benefits and efficiencies of the planned acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, and our ability to compete, our profit margins and our results of operations may be adversely affected. The successful completion of our planned acquisition of Komag is subject to risks and uncertainties and in the event we fail to complete the acquisition our stock price could suffer and our relationship with vendors and customers may be adversely impacted. Our ability to complete the planned acquisition of Komag is subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risk that a condition to closing of the transaction may not be satisfied and the risk that we fail to obtain the financing necessary to complete the transaction. There is also no assurance that an adequate number of Komag shares will be validly tendered, and not withdrawn, in the tender offer sufficient to satisfy our minimum tender offer condition. In the event that the tender offer or merger is not completed or is delayed, the current market price of our common stock may decline if based on an assumption that the merger will occur as contemplated during the third calendar quarter of 2007. Additionally, these uncertainties regarding the merger may adversely affect our relationships with our vendors and customers. 20 Table of Contents There are certain additional capital expenditure costs and asset utilization risks to our business associated with our strategy to vertically integrate our operations. Our vertical integration of head manufacturing resulted in a fundamental change in our operating structure, as we now manufacture heads for use in many of the hard drives we manufacture. Similarly, our planned integration of Komag’s media business into our overall operations will allow us to manufacture media components to work with our heads. Consequently, we make more capital investments than we would if we were not vertically integrated and carry a higher percentage of fixed costs than assumed in our prior financial business model. If the overall level of production decreases for any reason, and we are unable to reduce our fixed costs to match sales, our head or planned media manufacturing assets may face under-utilization that may impact our results of operations. We are therefore subject to additional risks related to overall asset utilization, including the need to operate at high levels of utilization to drive competitive costs, and the need for assured supply of components that we do not manufacture ourselves. In addition, we may incur additional risks, including: • if we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of heads, or media following our planned acquisition of Komag, there may be insufficient third party sources to satisfy our needs; • third party head or media suppliers may not continue to do business with us or may not do business with us on the same terms and conditions we have previously enjoyed; • claims that our manufacturing of heads, or media following our planned acquisition of Komag, may infringe certain intellectual property rights of other companies; and • difficulties locating in a timely manner suitable manufacturing equipment for our head or planned media manufacturing processes and replacement parts for such equipment. If we do not adequately address the challenges related to our head or planned media manufacturing operations, our ongoing operations could be disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our revenue or profit margins and negatively impacting our operating results. Our operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to optimize the overall quality, time-to-market and time-to-volume of new and established products. To achieve consistent success with our customers, we must balance several key attributes such as time-to-market, time-to-volume, quality, cost, service, price and a broad product portfolio. If we fail to: • maintain overall quality of products on new and established programs; • produce sufficient quantities of products at the capacities our customers demand while managing the integration of new and established technologies; • develop and qualify new products that have changes in overall specifications or features that our customers may require for their business needs; • obtain commitments from our customers to qualify new products, redesigns of current products, or new components in our existing products; • qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting all of our customers’ needs for performance, quality and features; • maintain an adequate supply of components required to manufacture our products; • maintain the manufacturing capability to quickly change our product mix between different capacities, form factors and spin speeds in response to changes in customers’ product demands; or • consistently meet stated quality requirements on delivered products, our operating results will be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents If we are unable to timely and cost-effectively develop heads and media, following our planned acquisition of Komag, with leading technology and overall quality, our ability to sell our products may be significantly diminished, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. Under our business plan, we are developing and manufacturing a substantial portion of the heads used in some of the hard drives products we manufacture and, following our planned acquisition of Komag, we intend to develop and manufacture a substantial portion of the media used in some of the hard drive products we manufacture. Consequently, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of head technologies, and will be less able to take advantage of media technologies, developed by other manufacturers. Technology transition for head and media designs is critical to increasing our volume production of heads and media. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in timely and cost-effectively developing and manufacturing heads or media for products using future technologies. We also may not effectively transition our head or planned media design and technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using the technologies necessary to satisfy our customers’ product needs, or we may encounter quality problems with the heads we manufacture or media we plan to manufacture. In addition, we may not have access to external sources of supply without incurring substantial costs. For example, we recently began using perpendicular recording heads in certain of our products. We face various challenges in ramping the manufacturing volume of these products and if we do not adequately address these challenges, or if we encounter quality problems with the heads we manufacture or media we plan to manufacture for these products, our continued shipment of these products may be delayed, impairing our ability to realize revenue from these products. Failure by certain suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture components for our products may adversely affect our operations. We rely on suppliers for various component parts that we integrate into our hard drives but do not manufacture ourselves, such as semiconductors, motors, flex circuits and suspensions. We are dependent on the suppliers of these various components to be able and willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop technology that can be successfully integrated with our products, and to manufacture these components efficiently. The failure of component suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture technology that can be integrated into our products may cause us to experience inability or delay in our manufacturing and shipment of hard drive products, or our expansion into new technology and markets, therefore adversely affecting our business and financial results. If we fail to qualify our products with our customers, they may not purchase any units of a particular product line, which would have a significant adverse impact on our sales. We regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers. Once a product is accepted for qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification process can result in our losing sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced. The effect of missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited number of high volume OEMs, which continue to consolidate their share of the PC and CE markets. If product life cycles lengthen, we may have a significantly longer period to wait before we have an opportunity to qualify a new product with a customer, which could harm our competitive position. These risks are increased because we expect cost improvements and competitive pressures to result in declining gross margins on our current generation products. We are subject to risks related to product defects, which could result in product recalls and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated due to the unenforceability of liability limitations. We warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to five years. We test our hard drives in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. However, there can be no assurance that our testing will reveal latent defects in our products, which may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. Accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. Product recalls can be expensive to implement and, if a product recall occurs during the product’s warranty period, we may be required to replace the defective product. In addition, a product recall may damage our relationship with our customers, and we may lose market share with our customers, including our OEM and ODM customers. Our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than us. We 22 Table of Contents record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. We may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products. If these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Current or future competitors may gain a technology advantage or develop an advantageous cost structure that we cannot match. It may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or process technology, which may allow them to offer products or services that have a significant advantage over the products and services that we offer. Advantages could be in capacity, performance, reliability, serviceability, or other attributes. Higher capacity storage needs have typically been better served by magnetic hard drives than flash memory as hard drive manufacturers can offer better value at high capacities, while lower capacity needs have been successfully served by solid state storage such as flash memory technology. Advances in magnetic, optical, semiconductor or other data storage technologies could result in competitive products that have better performance or lower cost per unit of capacity than our products. If we fail to be cost competitive against flash memory, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to companies using semiconductor technology. Further industry consolidation could provide competitive advantages to our competitors. The hard drive industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years. Consolidation by our competitors may enhance their capacity, abilities and resources and lower their cost structure, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage. Additionally, continued industry consolidation may lead to uncertainty in areas such as component availability, which could negatively impact our cost structure. Sales in the distribution channel are important to our business, and if we fail to maintain brand preference with our distributors or if distribution markets for hard drives weaken, our operating results could suffer. Our distribution customers typically sell to small computer manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers. We face significant competition in this channel as a result of limited product qualification programs and a significant focus on price and availability of product. If we fail to remain competitive in terms of our technology, quality, service and support, our distribution customers may favor our competitors, and our operating results could suffer. We also face significant risk in the distribution market for hard drives. If the distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing PC growth rate, technology transitions or a significant change in consumer buying preference from white box to branded PCs, or we experience significant price declines due to oversupply in the distribution channel, then our operating results would be adversely affected. The hard drive industry is highly competitive and can be characterized by significant shifts in market share among the major competitors. The price of hard drives has fallen over time due to increases in supply, cost reductions, technological advances and price reductions by competitors seeking to liquidate excess inventories or attempting to gain market share. In addition, rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. We also face competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory. These factors, taken together, may result in significant shifts in market share among the industry’s major participants. In addition, product recalls can lead to a loss of market share, which could adversely affect our operating results. Some of our competitors with diversified business units outside the hard drive industry periodically sell disk drives at prices that we cannot profitably match. Some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their revenue from business units outside the hard drive industry. Because they do not depend solely on sales of hard drives to achieve profitability, they periodically sell hard drives at lower prices and operate their hard drive business unit at a loss while still remaining profitable overall. In 23 Table of Contents addition, if these competitors can increase sales of non-hard drive products to the same customers, they may benefit from selling their hard drives at low prices. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we can not successfully compete with the pricing by these companies. If we do not successfully expand into new hard drive markets and manage the issues associated with new products and new markets, our business may suffer. To remain a significant supplier of hard drives, we will need to offer a broad range of hard drive products to our customers. We currently offer a variety of 3.5-inch hard drives for the desktop, enterprise, CE and external storage markets, and we also offer 2.5-inch form factor hard drives for the mobile, CE and external storage markets. However, demand for hard drives may shift to products in smaller form factors, which our competitors may already offer. Expansion into other hard drive markets and resulting increases in volume capacity requirements may require us to make substantial additional capital investments due in part because our operations are vertically integrated. While we continue to develop new products and look to expand into other hard drive markets, the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to anticipate and manage a variety of issues associated with these new products and new markets, such as difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp, market acceptance, effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new product introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products, and higher return rates of external storage products due to more lenient return policies in the retail market. Further, we need to identify how any of the hard drive markets that we are expanding into may have different characteristics from the markets in which we currently exist, such as, demand volume growth rates, demand seasonality, product generations development rates, customer concentrations, and cost and performance requirements, and we must properly address these differences. If we fail to successfully develop and manufacture new products and expand into new hard drive markets, customers may decrease the amount of our products that they purchase, and we may lose business to our competitors who offer these products. If we do not properly manage the technology transitions of our products, our operating results may be negatively affected. Many of the markets in which we offer our products are undergoing technology transitions. For example, in order to handle higher data transfer rates, the PC and enterprise markets are transitioning from parallel interfaces, such as PATA and SCSI, to serial interfaces, such as SATA and SAS, respectively. We must effectively manage the transition of the features of our products to serial interfaces in order to remain competitive and cost effective. In the PC market, we currently offer PATA and SATA products and must timely and efficiently manage both our manufacture of PATA products through their end of life and our ramp of SATA products and features. If we fail to successfully manage the transition from parallel interfaces to serial interfaces, our operating results may suffer. Expanding into new hard drive markets exposes our business to different seasonal demand cycles, which in turn could adversely affect our operating results. The CE and retail markets have different seasonal pricing and volume demand cycles as compared to the PC market. By expanding into these markets, we became exposed to seasonal fluctuations that are different from, and in addition to, those of the PC market. For example, because the primary customer for products such as our branded products are individual consumers, these markets experience a dramatic increase in demand during the winter holiday season. If we do not properly adjust our supply to new demand cycles such as this, we risk having excess inventory during periods of low demand and insufficient inventory during periods of high demand, therefore adversely affecting our operating results. If we do not successfully continue to expand into the mobile market, or if we do not accurately predict the growth and demands of the mobile market, our business may suffer. We began shipping 2.5-inch form factor hard drives for the mobile market during calendar year 2004. If we are unable to successfully continue to expand into the mobile market, we would have a competitive disadvantage to companies that are successful in this regard, and our business and financial results could suffer. To increase the sale of our products in the mobile market, we must adapt to the differences between the desktop and mobile markets, such as different requirements, features and competitors. In addition, if we continue to incur significant costs in manufacturing 24 Table of Contents and selling the 2.5-inch hard drives, and if we are unable to recover those costs from sales of the products, then we may not be able to compete successfully in this market and our operating results may suffer. Furthermore, if we do not accurately predict the future growth and demands of the mobile market, our business may suffer. For example, if the volume demand of the PC market shifts from desktop computers to notebook computers at a faster rate than we anticipate, we would be at a more significant competitive disadvantage to companies who have been more successful in the mobile market. Selling to the retail market has become an important part of our business, and if we fail to maintain and grow our market share or gain market acceptance of our branded products, our operating results could suffer. We sell our branded products directly to a select group of major retailers, for example, computer superstores and CE stores, and authorize sales through distributors to other retailers and online resellers. Our current retail customer base is primarily in the United States, Canada and Europe. We are facing increased competition from other companies for shelf space at a small number of major retailers that have strong buying power and pricing leverage. If we fail to successfully maintain a customer preference for Western Digital brand products or fail to successfully expand into multiple channels, our operating results may be adversely affected. We face strong competition in maintaining and trying to grow our market share in the retail market, particularly because of the relatively low barriers to entry in this market. We will continue to introduce new products in the retail market that incorporate our disk drives, however there can be no assurance that these products will gain market acceptance, and if they do not, our operating results could suffer. Loss of market share with or by a key customer could harm our operating results. During 2007, a large percentage of our revenue came from sales to our top 10 customers, which accounted for 47% of our revenue. One of these customers, Dell, accounted for more than 10% of our revenue. These customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, which often results in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. Even if we successfully qualify a product with a customer, the customer generally is not obligated to purchase any minimum volume of products from us and may be able to cancel an order or terminate its relationship with us at any time. Our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. If we lose a key customer, if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key customer suffers financial hardship then our operating results would likely be harmed. In addition, if customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our products to a particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. We may be unable to retain our key staff and skilled employees. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key staff and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. Worldwide competition for skilled employees in the hard drive industry is intense. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key staff or skilled employees who have received equity compensation. If we are unable to retain our existing key staff or skilled employees, or hire and integrate new key staff or skilled employees, or if we fail to implement succession plans for our key staff, our operating results would likely be harmed. Manufacturing and marketing our products abroad subjects us to numerous risks. We are subject to risks associated with our foreign manufacturing operations and foreign marketing efforts, including: • obtaining requisite United States of America and foreign governmental permits and approvals; • currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions; • political instability and civil unrest; • limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods of price declines; 25 Table of Contents • higher freight rates; • labor problems; • trade restrictions or higher tariffs; • exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations; • increasing labor and overhead costs; and • loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. While neither the 2006 Thai coup d’état nor terrorist bombings in Bangkok had any appreciable impact on our manufacturing operations, these events illustrate the risks associated with our foreign manufacturing operations and foreign marketing efforts and the importance to our business of stability in the countries in which we operate. Terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results. The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and insurance markets and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. Additionally, it is uncertain what impact the reactions to such acts by various governmental agencies and security regulators worldwide will have on shipping costs. Acts of terrorism, either domestically or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability. To the extent this results in disruption or delays of our manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Sudden disruptions to the availability of freight lanes could have an impact on our operations. We ship the majority of our products to our various customers via air freight. The sudden unavailability of air cargo operations used to ship our products would impair our ability to deliver our products in a timely and efficient manner, which could adversely impact our operating results. We also ship our product via ocean freight, and events or conditions at shipping ports, such as labor difficulties or disputes, could also impact our operating results by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver these products. We face litigation risks relating to our historical stock option grants that could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business. Several purported derivative actions were filed nominally on our behalf against certain of our current and former directors and officers in connection with our historical stock option granting practices. See Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for a more detailed description of these proceedings. We are and may in the future be subject to other litigation or government investigations arising in connection with such option practices. These proceedings may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of any such proceeding is difficult to predict. The defense of such lawsuits or investigations could result in significant expense and the diversion of our management’s time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives. Some or all of the amount we may be required to pay to defend or to satisfy a judgment or settlement of any or all of these proceedings may not be covered by insurance. Under indemnification agreements we have entered into with our current and former officers and directors, we are required to indemnify them, and advance expenses to them, in connection with their participation in proceedings arising out of their service to us. These payments may be material. The nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk of significant litigation. The hard drive industry has been characterized by significant litigation. This includes litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may 26 Table of Contents result in adverse rulings or decisions. We may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to time. If claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology. Such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly. In addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. We may also be liable for any past infringement. If there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. It could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. Any of these results would increase our costs and harm our operating results. Our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors. Our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non-patentable intellectual property such as our process technology. Despite safeguards, to the extent that a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. Also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to patent protection of intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. We rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. However, any of our registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which might harm our operating results. Environmental regulation costs could harm our operating results. We may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products. Such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate, including various European Union member countries. For example, the European Union has enacted the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”) and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) directives. RoHS prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including hard drives, put on the market after July 1, 2006. The WEEE directive obligates parties that place electrical and electronic equipment onto the market in the EU to put a clearly identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to EU member countries regarding distribution of the equipment, and provide a mechanism to take-back and properly dispose of the equipment. There is still some uncertainty in certain EU countries as to which party involved in the manufacture, distribution and sale of electronic equipment will be ultimately responsible for registration, reporting and disposal. Similar legislation may be enacted in other locations where we manufacture or sell our products, such as Asia. We will need to ensure that we comply with such laws and regulations as they are enacted, and that our component suppliers also timely comply with such laws and regulations. If we fail to timely comply with the legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In connection with our compliance with such environmental laws and regulations, we could incur substantial costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. In addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws, we could be subject to governmental fines and liability to our customers. If we have to make significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws, or if we are subject to significant expenses in connection with a violation of these laws, our financial condition or operating results could suffer. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations may negatively affect our operating results. Because we manufacture our products abroad, our operating costs are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Further fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Thai Baht and of the Malaysian Ringgit may negatively impact our operating results. 27 Table of Contents The Thai Baht is a free floating currency while the Malaysian Ringgit exchange rate policy is one of a managed float. We have attempted to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term, forward contracts. However, these contracts do not cover our full exposure and can be canceled by the issuer if currency controls are put in place. Currently, we hedge the Thai Baht, Malaysian Ringgit, Euro and British Pound Sterling with forward contracts. If the U.S. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated. Conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially U.S. dollar denominated. Increases in our customers’ credit risk could result in credit losses and an increase in our operating costs. Some of our OEM customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as ODMs, that provide manufacturing services to our OEM customers. Because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct OEM customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. Our agreements with our OEM customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. Additionally, as we attempt to expand our OEM and distribution channel sales into emerging economies such as Brazil, Russia, India and China, the customers in these regions may have relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately access the associated credit risks. Any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. Inaccurate projections of demand for our product can cause large fluctuations in our quarterly results. We often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter. In addition, our quarterly projections and results may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including: • the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers; • our product mix; • changes in the prices of our products; • manufacturing delays or interruptions; • acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products; • variations in the cost of components for our products; • limited availability of components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; • competition and consolidation in the data storage industry; • seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for PCs often due to technological advances; and • availability and rates of transportation. Rapidly changing conditions in the hard drive industry make it difficult to predict actual results. We have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting. The highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. These changes have impacted our financial results in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Key estimates and assumptions for us include: • accruals for warranty costs related to product defects; • price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors; 28 Table of Contents • inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of cost or market value (net realizable value); • reserves for doubtful accounts; • accruals for product returns; • accruals for litigation and other contingencies; and • reserves for deferred tax assets. The market price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile. Factors such as the following may significantly affect the market price of our common stock: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; • new products introduced by us or our competitors; • periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry consolidation; • developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; • conditions and trends in the hard drive, computer, data and content management, storage and communication industries; and • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts relating specifically to us or the hard drive industry in general. In addition, general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. These fluctuations often appear to be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. Securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. A number of such suits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and management’s attention. We may be unable to raise future capital through debt or equity financing. Due to the risks described herein, in the future we may be unable to maintain adequate financial resources for capital expenditures, expansion or acquisition activity, working capital and research and development. If we decide to increase or accelerate our capital expenditures or research and development efforts, or if results of operations do not meet our expectations, we could require additional debt or equity financing. However, we cannot ensure that additional financing will be available to us or available on acceptable terms. An equity financing could also be dilutive to our existing stockholders. If our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial results or our stock price may be adversely affected. Our most recent evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of June 29, 2007, in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective. We believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place for future periods; however, if our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial results or our stock price may be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 29 Table of Contents 