Item 1A. Risk Factors We need to increase the volume of traffic on our network or our network will not generate the necessary profits to achieve positive cash flow from operations. We must increase the volume of Internet, data, voice and video transmission on our network in order to realize the anticipated cash flow, operating efficiencies and cost benefits. If we fail to develop new large-volume customer relationships or are unable to maintain our relationships with current customers, we may not be able to achieve the necessary traffic, which would adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. Rapid technological changes can lead to further competition which could materially, adversely affect our business. The communications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology. In addition, the introduction of new products or technologies, as well as further development of existing products and technologies may reduce the cost or increase the supply of certain services similar to what we provide. As a result, our most significant competitors in the future may be new entrants to the communications industry. The new entrants may not be burdened by an installed base of equipment. Our future success depends, in part, on the ability to anticipate and adapt in a timely manner to technological changes. Technological changes and the resulting competition could have a material adverse effect on us. We have incurred significant losses since inception, and expect to continue to incur losses in the future. We have incurred significant net losses since inception. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $2.8 billion. We expect to continue to incur significant losses in the near-term in conjunction with restructuring and integration activities related to Focal, among other things. We cannot be certain when or if we will ever achieve profitability. Our ability to utilize our network may be severely limited if we are not able to maintain rights-of-way and permits, which would adversely affect revenues and cash flow. Our network consists of several thousand miles of fiber optic cable located across the United States on property that we do not own. Our ability to utilize this network depends on maintaining rights-of-way and required permits from railroads, utilities, government authorities and third-party landlords. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain all of our existing rights and permits. Although we expect to maintain and renew 16 Table of Contents our existing agreements, the loss of a substantial number of existing rights and permits could have a material adverse impact on our revenue if we were unable to provide services to our customers or on our profitability and financial condition if we are required to purchase higher priced network alternatives. For portions of our network that we lease or purchase use rights from third parties, we must rely on such third parties’ maintenance of all necessary rights-of-way and permits. Some agreements that we may rely on to use portions of other companies’ networks could be terminated if associated rights-of-way were terminated, which would adversely affect our ability to serve our customers and negatively affect our revenue and profitability. Significant capital expenditures will be required to maintain our network, and if we fail or are unable to adequately maintain our network, there could be a material adverse effect on our revenues and cash flow. We could incur significant capital expenditures as a result of unanticipated expenses, regulatory changes and other events that affect our business. If we do not have sufficient cash on hand or the ability to borrow sufficient cash on favorable terms, we may be unable to make any necessary capital expenditures. If we fail to adequately maintain our network to meet customer needs, there could be a material adverse affect on our revenue and profitability. We could also be subject to lawsuits or regulatory proceedings for failure to adequately maintain our network. Regulatory initiatives could put us at a competitive disadvantage or lower the rates that we are permitted to charge for our services, which would decrease our revenue and profitability. We are subject to regulatory oversight of varying degrees at the local, state and federal levels. We are regulated primarily by both the FCC and the state public utility commissions in the states in which we provide services to customers. The FCC provides regulatory oversight for service terms and rates offered by communication carriers. Additionally, state public utility commissions can issue regulations that affect the types of services that we can provide and the rates we can charge for our services, as well as with respect to certain other consumer-related issues. Regulatory initiatives that would put us at a competitive disadvantage or mandate lower rates for our services could result in lower profitability and cash flow. The FCC or other federal, state and local governmental authorities having jurisdiction over the communications industry could adopt regulations or take other actions that could adversely affect our business prospects, profitability and cash flow. The communications industry has been the subject of legislative initiatives at both the federal and state levels, and we expect these initiatives to continue. The Telecom Act, provides, among other things, a framework for local competition, but requires the FCC and state governmental agencies to implement rules for this framework. These rules have been the subject of numerous appeals, both in the courts and to Congress. Legislation has been proposed to amend the Telecom Act in almost every session of Congress since its adoption, and members of Congress use hearings and letters to regulators to influence the rules adopted to implement it. This Congressional participation in the development of regulatory policy and enforcement has caused the regulatory process relating to the communications industry to become less predictable and increases the risk that we will be adversely affected by the rules that are ultimately implemented and/or the regulatory process. Similar legislative involvement has occurred in various states. Any regulatory changes could have a material adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. We rely, in part, on portions of competitors’ networks to carry communications signals. If we are not able to maintain these agreements, we may incur additional significant expenses in obtaining alternate agreements with other carriers to carry communications signals, which could adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. We use network resources owned by other companies for portions of our network. We obtain the right to use such network portions through operating leases and IRU agreements in which we pay for the right to use such other companies’ fiber assets and through agreements in which we exchange the use of portions of our network 17 Table of Contents for the use of portions of such other companies’ networks. In several of those agreements, the counter party is responsible for network maintenance and repair. If a counter party to a lease, IRU or an exchange suffers financial distress or bankruptcy, we may not be able to enforce our rights to use such network assets or, even if we could continue to use such network assets, we could incur material expenses related to maintenance and repair. We could also incur material expenses if we were required to locate alternative network assets. We may not be successful in obtaining reasonable alternative network assets if needed. Failure to obtain usage of alternative network assets, if necessary, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to carry on business operations. In an effort to reduce our costs for the use of such third party networks, we have undertaken an initiative to reduce our dependency and diversify our use of the networks of other carriers. We executed this initiative in a number of ways, including by strategically moving traffic to lower cost third party networks, purchasing our own fiber in areas where access charges are high and/or where warranted by traffic volumes and renegotiating interconnection agreements as opportunities have allowed. If we are unable to successfully continue to execute this cost reduction strategy, we may incur higher access charges in future periods, which may adversely impact our profitability and cash flow. The SBC/AT&T and Verizon/MCI mergers will create a tendency for the ILEC acquirer to favor their wholly- owned or fully integrated interexchange carrier. We acquire the vast majority of our access, the connection between our owned network and the customer premises, from the ILEC. With the ILECs acquisitions of these major interexhange carriers the ILECs now compete directly with our business and may have a tendency to favor themselves and their affiliates to our detriment. It is not yet clear what effect, if any, will result from the constraints agreed to by the ILECs to protect independent interexchange carriers against this discrimination in the procurement of the bottleneck local access circuits. The ILECs favoring themselves in access could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and retain customers because access is necessary in most cases to connect enterprise customers and carrier customers to our network. Network access represents a very large portion of our total costs and if we face less favorable pricing and provisioning, we will be at a competitive disadvantage versus the ILEC. The opportunity to obtain access from competitive access providers to the ILECs has been significantly reduced as a result of the SBC/AT&T and Verizon/MCI mergers. Our primary method of connecting with our customers is through local transport and last mile circuits we purchase from the ILEC. Our secondary method is purchasing such circuits from competitive access providers like AT&T and MCI. Competitive access providers are the only entities that exert competitive pricing pressure on the ILECs. Now that AT&T and MCI have been acquired, our number one and number two sources of lower priced competitive access have disappeared. A substantial portion of our ILEC special access circuits are purchased pursuant to contract and the merging companies have agreed to certain pricing conditions with the FCC. Thus, while the likely result of the merger is higher prices for special access over time, it is not possible to determine at this time how adverse the long term impact on Broadwing will be. If we are not able to successfully introduce new products and services, our revenue and profitability could be adversely impacted. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate the needs of current and future customers. We seek to meet these needs through new product introductions, service quality and technological superiority. Our failure to anticipate the needs of these customers and to introduce the new products and services necessary to attract or retain customers could have a material adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. 18 Table of Contents We are subject to risk due to a significant amount of revenue being derived from companies that are communications providers, Internet service providers and cable television companies. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from communications carriers, many of which have filed for bankruptcy or have been adversely affected financially by the prolonged decrease in the price for telecommunication services. To the extent these large customers cease to employ our network to deliver their services, or cannot pay outstanding accounts receivable balances, our revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. Most of our arrangements with large customers do not provide us with guarantees that customer usage will be maintained at current levels. Moreover, industry pressures have caused communications carriers to look aggressively for ways to cut costs, which may result in reduced demand and reduced prices. In addition, the ability of certain customers and competitors to construct and/or expand their own facilities as well as further consolidation in the communications industry could result in customers ceasing or reducing their use of Broadwing’s network. Revenue from our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 20%, 19% and 18% of total revenue in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. In addition, revenue from communications carriers accounted for 40%, 38% and 42% of total revenue in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Our operations depend upon our ability to internally develop or acquire from third party suppliers, advanced and reliable network equipment on a timely basis. The inability to obtain needed equipment or services could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Where possible and practical, we utilize commercially available technologies and products from a variety of vendors. However, suppliers of network equipment may not be able to meet equipment requirements on a timely basis, and equipment may not perform as expected. Our backbone transport network was built internally and we are the sole manufacturer of this network system including transport and receiving cards necessary for capacity expansion. We depend on key personnel and the availability of key components purchased from third parties to manufacture these network components. The following factors could disrupt our operations by jeopardizing the service provided to our customers and limiting our ability to introduce new services and obtain and retain customers: • extended interruption in the supply of network equipment; • material increase in prices; • significant delay by suppliers in their shipment of products, their release of new products or the failure of their products to perform as expected; • financial failures of key suppliers; • extended delay in transitioning to the products of an alternative supplier, if necessary; and • use of key engineering and manufacturing personnel. If we cannot obtain adequate replacement equipment or services, or an acceptable alternate vendor, it could cause a material adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. Network failure and transmission delays and errors could expose us to potential liability or loss of customers which could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Our network utilizes a variety of communications equipment, software, operating protocols and components for the high-speed transmission of data and voice traffic among various locations. Such equipment, software and physical locations could malfunction, suffer physical damage or otherwise become impaired. We are held to high quality and delivery standards in our customer contracts. Network failures resulting in service interruptions or delays in the delivery of services could result in a loss of customers. Furthermore, failures or delays could expose us to claims by our customers that could have a material impact on our profitability and cash flow. 19 Table of Contents Increased competition could adversely affect our revenue, profitability and cash flow. There is substantial competition in the communications industry. Competition may continue to intensify due to the efforts of existing competitors to address difficult market conditions through reduced pricing, bundled offerings or otherwise, as well as a result of the consolidation of some of the largest competitors with substantial market power or the introduction of additional entrants using advanced technologies to introduce new products and services to the market. Price competition has been intense and may further intensify. If we cannot offer reliable, value-added services on a price competitive basis in markets, we could experience a decline in revenue. In addition, if we do not keep pace with technological advances or fail to respond timely to changes in competitive factors in the industry, we could lose market share or experience a decline in our revenue and profit margins. In the long-distance voice services market, we face significant competition from companies such as AT&T (with SBC’s acquisition of AT&T Corp.), Verizon (with its acquisition of MCI), Sprint-Nextel Corporation, Level 3 Communications, Inc., Qwest, Global Crossing Limited and BellSouth Corporation. The significant capacity of these competitors has and may continue to result in decreasing prices even if the demand for higher-bandwidth services increases. In addition, some competitors are experiencing financial difficulties or are in bankruptcy reorganization. Competitors in financial distress or competitors emerging from bankruptcy with lower cost capital structures and substantial excess capacity in most markets could exacerbate downward pricing pressure in the communications industry. There is also substantial competition within the local voice services market. Our primary competitor’s are the ILECs, including Bell South, Verizon, Qwest, and AT&T (with SBC’s acquisition of AT&T). Typically, the ILECs offer a wider variety of services than Broadwing in a broader geographic area and have much greater resources than Broadwing. Consequently, this may encourage an ILEC to subsidize the pricing for services with which we compete with the profits of other services in which the ILEC remains the dominant provider. In addition to competition from ILECs, we also face competition from other CLECs. Although CLECs overall have only captured a relatively small percentage of the U.S. local telecommunications market, we nevertheless compete to some extent with other CLECs. In some instances, these CLECs have greater resources and offer a wider range of services. Potential regulation of Internet service providers in the United States could adversely affect our operations. The FCC has to date treated Internet service providers as enhanced service providers. Enhanced service providers are currently exempt from federal and state regulations governing common carriers, including the obligation to pay access charges and contribute to the universal service fund. The FCC is currently examining the status of Internet service providers and the services they provide. If the FCC were to determine that Internet service providers, or the services they provide, are subject to FCC regulation, including the payment of access charges and contribution to the universal service funds, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and operating cash flow. Our growth is dependent upon the successful integration of recently acquired businesses. The integration of acquired businesses involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations; • difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees; • difficulties in the assimilation of different corporate cultures and practices, as well as in the assimilation of broad and geographically dispersed personnel and operations; and • difficulties in the integration of departments, systems, technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, policies and procedures and internal controls. 20 Table of Contents If we cannot successfully integrate acquired businesses or operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Successful integration of these acquired businesses or operations will depend on the Company’s ability to manage these operations, realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by strengthened service offerings and expanded geographic market coverage and, to some degree, to eliminate redundant and excess costs. Because of the difficulties inherent in business integrations, we may not be able to achieve the benefits that we hope to achieve as a result of the acquisition. In addition, investors should not rely on the historical financial and operating performance of recently acquired businesses as an indication of future performance. We will need additional capital to fund our existing and future operations. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we may be required to reduce the scope of our planned network development, marketing and sales efforts, which would harm our sales and profitability. Network expansion and marketing and sales of new services require significant commitment of resources. We may incur significant operating losses or expend significant amounts of capital if, among other things: • We fail to establish market share or generate expected revenue; • Our network operating cost exceeds expectations; • Our capital expenditure forecasts change or prove inaccurate; and • We need to respond to unforeseen challenges or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity securities, the issuance of such securities could result in dilution to existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities, the terms of such debt could impose additional restrictions on our operations. Furthermore, additional capital, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we may be required to reduce the scope of our planned network development and marketing and sales efforts, which would harm our revenue and results of operations. The unpredictability of our quarterly results may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our revenue and operating results will vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate. The primary factors, among other things, that may affect our quarterly results include the following: • demand for communications services; • loss of customers or the ability to attract new customers; • changes in pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • costs related to acquisitions of technology or businesses; and • general economic conditions as well as those specific to the communications and related industries. • changes in regulatory rulings A delay in generating revenue or the timing of recognizing revenue and expenses could cause significant variations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. It is possible that in some future quarters our results may be below analysts and investors expectations. In these circumstances, the price of our common stock will likely decrease. We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively. If we are unable to retain key personnel or hire and retain other qualified personnel, our sales and financial condition could be harmed. In February 2006, Dr. David Huber resigned as our CEO. Dr. Huber will continue to serve as Chairman of the Board. Our Board of Directors has initiated a nationwide search to the fill the CEO position. In the interim, 21 Table of Contents Scott Widham, our President of Sales and Marketing, Lynn Anderson, our CFO and Kim Larsen, our General Counsel, will share equally in the office of the CEO’s responsibilities. In addition, other senior executives have left the Company as part of our integration efforts or to pursue other opportunities. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled, knowledgeable, sophisticated and qualified managerial, professional and technical personnel. Furthermore, our success is dependant upon the continued services of our corporate officers and other key engineering, manufacturing, operations, sales, marketing and support personnel who have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to execute our business plan. The loss of the services of any key employee could negatively affect our ability to maintain customer relationships, which would harm our sales and financial condition. The issuance of shares of common stock or options to management and employees would also result in additional dilution of the prior equity interests of the stockholders, which could adversely affect the market price and value of common stock. There can be no assurance that we will not need to issue additional equity securities in the future in order to execute our business plan, which would lead to further dilution to stockholders of common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 