ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this Risk Factors section and elsewhere in this annual report could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the factors and the specific risks set forth below, and in documents we incorporate by reference. This annual report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Because we have a limited operating history in certain of our operating areas, our future operating results are difficult to forecast, and our failure to sustain profitability in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may not maintain the current level of revenues, natural gas and crude oil reserves or production we now attribute to the properties contributed to us when we were formed and those developed and acquired since our formation. Any future growth of our natural gas and crude oil reserves, production and operations could place significant demands on our financial, operational and administrative resources. Our failure to sustain profitability in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 13 Table of Contents Natural gas and crude oil prices fluctuate widely, and low prices could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our revenues, profitability and future growth depend in part on prevailing natural gas and crude oil prices. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The amount we can borrow under our senior secured credit facilities is subject to periodic redetermination based in part on changing expectations of future prices. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of natural gas and crude oil that we can economically produce. While prices for natural gas and crude oil may be favorable at any point in time, they fluctuate widely. For example, the closing New York Mercantile Exchange (“NYMEX”) wholesale price of natural gas was at a six-year low of approximately $2.98 per Mcf for August of 2002 and reached an all-time high of approximately $13.91 per Mcf for October of 2005. During 2006, the closing NYMEX wholesale natural gas price ranged from $11.45 per Mcf for January of 2006 to a low of $4.20 per Mcf for October of 2006. Among the factors that can cause these fluctuations are: • domestic and foreign demand for natural gas and crude oil; • the level of domestic and foreign natural gas and crude oil supplies; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations; • political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; and • worldwide economic conditions. Due to the volatility of natural gas and crude oil prices and our inability to control the factors that affect natural gas and crude oil prices, we cannot predict whether prices will remain at current levels, increase or decrease in the future. If natural gas or crude oil prices decrease or our exploration and development efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to take writedowns. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The reported financial results and disclosures were developed using certain significant accounting policies, practices and estimates, which are discussed in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section in this annual report. We employ the full cost method of accounting whereby all costs associated with acquiring, exploring for, and developing natural gas and crude oil reserves are capitalized and accumulated in separate country cost centers. These capitalized costs are amortized based on production from the reserves for each country cost center. Each capitalized cost pool cannot exceed the net present value of the underlying natural gas and crude oil reserves. A write down of these capitalized costs could be required if natural gas and/or crude oil prices were to drop precipitously at a reporting period end. Future price declines or increased operating and capitalized costs without incremental increases in natural gas and crude oil reserves could also require us to record a write down. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate and any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating natural gas and crude oil reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves disclosed in this annual report. 14 Table of Contents In order to prepare these estimates, we and independent reserve engineers engaged by us must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We and the engineers must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions with respect to natural gas and crude oil prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Therefore, estimates of natural gas and crude oil reserves are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, natural gas and crude oil prices and revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable natural gas and crude oil reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves disclosed in this annual report. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing natural gas and crude oil prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. At December 31, 2006, approximately 37% of our estimated proved reserves were undeveloped. Undeveloped reserves, by their nature, are less certain. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Our reserve data assumes that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop our reserves. Although we have prepared estimates of our natural gas and crude oil reserves and the costs associated with these reserves in accordance with industry standards and SEC requirements, we cannot assure you that the estimated costs are accurate, that development will occur as scheduled or that actual results will be as estimated. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues disclosed in this annual report is the current market value of our estimated natural gas and crude oil reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Any changes in consumption by natural gas and crude oil purchasers or in governmental regulations or taxation will also affect actual future net cash flows. The timing of both the production and the expenses from the development and production of natural gas and crude oil properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves and their present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most accurate discount factor. The effective interest rate at various times and the risks associated with our business or the oil and gas industry in general will affect the accuracy of the 10% discount factor. Our production is concentrated in a small number of geographic areas. Approximately 45% of our 2006 production was from Michigan, approximately 30% was from Alberta, Canada and approximately 21% was from Texas. Because of our concentration in these geographic areas, any regional events that increase costs, reduce availability of equipment or supplies, reduce demand or limit production, including weather and natural disasters, may impact us more than if our operations were more geographically diversified. If our production levels were significantly reduced to levels below those for which we have entered into contractual delivery commitments, we would be required to purchase natural gas at market prices to fulfill our obligation under certain long-term contracts. This could adversely affect our cash flow to the extent any such shortfall related to our sales contracts with floor pricing. Our Canadian operations present unique risks and uncertainties, different from or in addition to those we face in our domestic operations. We conduct our Canadian operations through Quicksilver Resources Canada Inc. At December 31, 2006, our proved Canadian reserves were estimated to be 308 Bcf. Capital expenditures relating to QRCI’s operations are budgeted to be approximately $74 million in 2007, constituting approximately 12% of our total 2007 budgeted capital expenditures. 15 Table of Contents We expect that our 2007 Canadian capital budget will be funded from Canadian operating cash flow. If our revenues decrease as a result of lower natural gas or crude oil prices or otherwise, we may be unable to fund our entire 2007 Canadian capital budget, or may opt to increase our Canadian debt levels to fund 2007 capital expenditures. While our results to date indicate that net recoverable reserves on CBM lands could be substantial, we can offer you no assurance that development will occur as scheduled or that actual results will be in accordance with estimates. Other risks of our operations in Canada include, among other things, increases in taxes and governmental royalties, changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies, currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations. Laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade and taxation may also adversely affect our Canadian operations. We may have difficulty financing our planned growth. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience substantial capital expenditure and working capital needs, particularly as a result of increases in our property acquisition and drilling activities. In the future, we will likely require additional financing in addition to cash generated from our operations to fund our planned growth. If revenues decrease as a result of lower natural gas or crude oil prices or otherwise, our ability to expend the capital necessary to replace our reserves or to maintain production of current levels may be limited, resulting in a decrease in production over time. If our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to satisfy our capital expenditure requirements, we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. In the event additional capital resources are unavailable, we may curtail our acquisition, development drilling and other activities or be forced to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis. We are vulnerable to operational hazards, transportation dependencies, regulatory risks and other uninsured risks associated with our activities. The oil and gas business involves operating hazards such as well blowouts, explosions, uncontrollable flows of crude oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, treatment plant “downtime”, pipeline ruptures or spills, pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks, any of which could cause us to experience substantial losses. Also, the availability of a ready market for our natural gas and crude oil production depends on the proximity of reserves to, and the capacity of, natural gas and crude oil gathering systems, treatment plants, pipelines and trucking or terminal facilities. U.S. and Canadian federal, state and provincial regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce and market our natural gas and crude oil. In addition, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by previous owners of properties purchased or leased by us. As a result of operating hazards, regulatory risks and other uninsured risks, we could incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities, the payment of which could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, development or acquisitions. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of such risks and losses in accordance with customary industry practice. Generally, environmental risks are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not covered, or not fully covered, by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to make additional acquisitions of producing properties or successfully integrate them into our operations. A portion of our growth in recent years has been due to acquisitions of producing properties. We expect to continue to evaluate and, where appropriate, pursue acquisition opportunities on terms our management considers to be favorable to us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable acquisitions in the future, or that we will be able to finance these acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. In addition, we compete against other companies for acquisitions, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in the acquisition of any material producing property interests. Further, we cannot assure you that any future acquisitions that we make will be integrated successfully into our operations or will achieve desired profitability objectives. 16 Table of Contents The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future natural gas and crude oil prices, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors beyond our control. These assessments are inexact and their accuracy inherently uncertain, and such a review may not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it necessarily permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their merits and deficiencies. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. In addition, significant acquisitions can change the nature of our operations and business depending upon the character of the acquired properties, which may be substantially different in operating and geological characteristics or geographic location than existing properties. While our current operations are located primarily in Michigan, Alberta, Canada, Texas, Indiana, Kentucky and Montana, we cannot assure you that we will not pursue acquisitions of properties in other locations. The failure to replace our reserves could adversely affect our production and cash flows. Our future success depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional natural gas and crude oil reserves that are economically recoverable. Our proved reserves, a majority of which are in the mature Michigan Basin, will generally decline as reserves are depleted, except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration or development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. In order to increase reserves and production, we must continue our development drilling and recompletion programs or undertake other replacement activities. Our current strategy is to maintain our focus on low-cost operations while increasing our reserve base, production and cash flow through development and exploration of our existing properties and acquisitions of producing properties. We cannot assure you, however, that our planned exploration and development projects and acquisition activities will result in significant additional reserves or that we will have continuing success drilling productive wells. Furthermore, while our revenues may increase if prevailing natural gas and crude oil prices increase significantly, our finding costs for additional reserves also could increase. We cannot control the activities on properties that we do not operate. As of December 31, 2006, other companies operated properties that included approximately 22% of our proved reserves. As a result, we have a limited ability to exercise influence over operations for these properties or their associated costs. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could materially adversely affect the realization of our targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. As a result, the success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors that are outside of our control, including: • timing and amount of capital expenditures; • the operator’s expertise and financial resources; • approval of other participants in drilling wells; and • selection of technology. We cannot control the operations of gas processing and transportation facilities we do not own or operate. At December 31, 2006, other companies owned processing plants and pipelines that delivered approximately 64% of our natural gas production to market in Michigan. Our Canadian production is delivered to market primarily by either the TransCanada or ATCO systems. We have no influence over the operation of these facilities and must depend upon the owners of these facilities to minimize any loss of processing and transportation capacity. 17 Table of Contents The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent on a relatively small group of key management personnel, including our Chairman, our Chief Executive Officer and our other executive officers and key technical personnel. We cannot assure you that the services of these individuals will be available to us in the future. Because competition for experienced personnel in the oil and gas industry is intense, we cannot assure you that we would be able to find acceptable replacements with comparable skills and experience in the oil and gas industry. Accordingly, the loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on us. Competition in our industry is intense, and we are smaller and have a more limited operating history than most of our competitors. We compete with major and independent oil and gas companies for property acquisitions. We also compete for the equipment and labor required to develop and operate these properties. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. In addition, larger competitors may be able to absorb the burden of any changes in federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. These competitors may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive natural gas and crude oil properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than we can. Our ability to explore for natural gas and crude oil prospects and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend on our ability to conduct operations, to evaluate and select suitable properties and to complete transactions in this highly competitive environment. Furthermore, the oil and gas industry competes with other industries in supplying the energy and fuel needs of industrial, commercial, and other consumers. Several companies have entered into purchase contracts with us for a significant portion of our production and, if they default on these contracts, we could be materially and adversely affected. Our long-term natural gas contracts, which extend through March 2009, accounted for the sale of approximately 27% of our natural gas production and for a significant portion of our total revenues in 2006. We cannot assure you that the other parties to these contracts will continue to perform under the contracts. If the other parties were to default after taking delivery of our natural gas, it could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows for the period in which the default occurred. A default by the other parties prior to taking delivery of our natural gas could also have a material adverse effect on our cash flows for the period in which the default occurred depending on the prevailing market prices of natural gas at the time compared to the contractual prices. Hedging our production may result in losses. To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of natural gas and crude oil, we have entered into natural gas and crude oil hedging arrangements. These hedging arrangements tend to limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices of natural gas and crude oil. These hedging arrangements also expose us to risk of financial losses in some circumstances, including the following: • our production could be materially less than expected; or • the other parties to the hedging contracts could fail to perform their contractual obligations. The result of natural gas and crude oil market prices exceeding our swap prices requires us to make payment for the settlement of our hedge derivatives on the fifth day of the production month for natural gas hedges and the fifth day after the production month for crude oil hedges. We do not receive market price cash payments from our customers until 25 to 60 days after the end of the production month. This could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows for the period between hedge settlement and payment for revenues earned. If we choose not to engage in hedging arrangements in the future, we may be more adversely affected by changes in natural gas and crude oil prices than our competitors who engage in hedging arrangements. 18 Table of Contents Delays in obtaining oil field equipment and increases in drilling and other service costs could adversely affect our ability to pursue our drilling program and our results of operations. There is currently a high demand for and a general shortage of drilling equipment and supplies. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling equipment, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. We believe that these shortages could continue. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain necessary drilling equipment and supplies in a timely manner or on satisfactory terms, and we may experience shortages of, or material increases in the cost of, drilling equipment, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services in the future. Any such delays and price increases could adversely affect our ability to pursue our drilling program and our results of operations. Our activities are regulated by complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Natural gas and crude oil operations are subject to various U.S. and Canadian federal, state, provincial and local government laws and regulations that may be changed from time to time in response to economic or political conditions. Matters that are typically regulated include: • discharge permits for drilling operations; • drilling permits and bonds; • reports concerning operations; • spacing of wells; • unitization and pooling of properties; • environmental protection; and • taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of natural gas and crude oil wells below actual production capacity to conserve supplies of natural gas and crude oil. We also are subject to changing and extensive tax laws, the effects of which cannot be predicted. The development, production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of natural gas and crude oil, by-products and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with natural gas and crude oil operations are also subject to laws and regulations primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment. The discharge of natural gas, crude oil or pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to significant liabilities on our part to the government and third parties and may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties or require us to incur substantial costs of remediation. Legal and tax requirements frequently are changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We cannot assure you that existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations, will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have a substantial amount of debt and the cost of servicing that debt could adversely affect our business; and such risk could increase if we incur more debt. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2006, we had total consolidated debt of $919.5 million. Subject to the limits contained in the loan agreements governing our senior secured revolving credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes, we may incur additional debt. Our ability to borrow under our senior secured revolving credit facilities is subject to the quantity of proved reserves attributable to our natural gas and crude oil properties. One of our senior secured revolving credit facilities enables us to borrow significant amounts in Canadian dollars to fund and support our operations in Canada. Such indebtedness exposes us to currency exchange risk associated with the Canadian dollar. If we incur additional indebtedness or fail to 19 Table of Contents increase the quantity of proved reserves attributable to our natural gas and crude oil properties, the risks that we now face as a result of our indebtedness could intensify. We have demands on our cash resources in addition to interest expense on our indebtedness, including, among others, operating expenses and principal payments under our senior secured revolving credit facilities, our senior subordinated notes and our convertible subordinated debentures. Our level of indebtedness relative to our proved reserves and these significant demands on our cash resources could have important effects on our business and on your investment in Quicksilver. For example, they could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • require us to make principal payments under our senior secured revolving credit facilities if the quantity of proved reserves attributable to our natural gas and crude oil properties are insufficient to support our level of borrowings under such credit facilities; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the oil and gas industry; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have lower debt service obligations and significantly greater operating and financing flexibility than we do; • limit our financial flexibility, including our ability to borrow additional funds; • increase our interest expense if interest rates increase, because certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • increase our vulnerability to foreign exchange risk associated with Canadian dollar denominated indebtedness and international operations in Canada; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and • result in an event of default upon a failure to comply with financial covenants contained in our senior secured revolving credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to pay principal and interest on our long-term debt and to satisfy our other liabilities will depend upon our future performance and our ability to refinance our debt as it becomes due. Our future operating performance and ability to refinance will be affected by economic and capital markets conditions, our financial condition, results of operations and prospects and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operating costs, we will be forced to adopt alternative strategies that may include: • reducing or delaying capital expenditures; • seeking additional debt financing or equity capital; • selling assets; or • restructuring or refinancing debt. There can be no assurance that any such strategies could be implemented on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our senior secured revolving credit facilities and senior subordinated notes restrict our ability and the ability of some of our subsidiaries to engage in certain activities. The loan agreements governing our senior secured revolving credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes restrict our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt: 20 Table of Contents • pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • make certain investments; • incur or permit to exist certain liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • merge, consolidate or amalgamate with another company; • transfer or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; and • redeem subordinated debt. The loan agreements for our senior secured revolving credit facilities and the indentures governing our senior subordinated notes contain certain covenants, which, among other things, require the maintenance of a minimum current ratio, a minimum collateral coverage ratio, a minimum earnings (before interest, taxes, depreciation, depletion and amortization, non-cash income and expense, and exploration costs) to interest expense ratio, and a minimum earnings (before interest, taxes, depreciation, depletion, accretion and amortization, non-cash income and expense and exploration costs) to fixed charges ratio. Our ability to borrow under our senior secured revolving credit facilities is dependent upon the quantity of proved reserves attributable to our natural gas and crude oil properties. Our ability to meet these covenants or requirements may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will satisfy such covenants and requirements. The covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a breach of the restrictive covenants in our loan agreements or the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes, or any instrument governing our future indebtedness, or our inability to maintain the financial ratios described above could result in an event of default under the applicable instrument. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, the applicable creditors could, subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable instrument, elect to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. Moreover, any of our debt agreements that contain a cross-default or cross-acceleration provision that would be triggered by such default or acceleration would also be subject to acceleration upon the occurrence of such default or acceleration. If we were unable to repay amounts due under our senior secured revolving credit facilities, the creditors could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. If the payment of our indebtedness is accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness and our other indebtedness that would become due as a result of any acceleration. The above restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing and may prevent us from taking advantage of attractive business opportunities. A small number of existing stockholders control our company, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of stockholder votes. Members of the Darden family, together with Quicksilver Energy, L.P., which is primarily owned by members of the Darden family, beneficially own on the date of this annual report approximately 34% of our common stock. As a result, these entities and individuals will generally be able to control the outcome of stockholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our charter or bylaws and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. A large number of our outstanding shares and shares to be issued upon exercise of our outstanding options may be sold into the market in the future, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Our shares that are eligible for future sale may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. There were 77,601,922 shares of our common stock outstanding at December 31, 2006. Approximately 49,821,419 of these shares are freely tradable without substantial restriction or the requirement of future registration under the Securities Act. In addition, our contingently convertible debentures are convertible upon the satisfaction of certain conditions. Based on the conversion rate in effect at December 31, 2006, if the conditions permitting the conversion of all of our outstanding contingently convertible debentures are satisfied and all of the outstanding debentures are 21 Table of Contents converted, an aggregate of 4,908,135 shares of our common stock would be issued. At December 31, 2006 we had the following options outstanding to purchase shares of our common stock: • Options to purchase 26,501 shares at $5.67 per share; • Options to purchase 45,654 shares at $7.36 per share; • Options to purchase 36,378 shares at $8.03 per share; • Options to purchase 560,029 shares at $11.01 per share; • Options to purchase 17,307 shares at $15.83 per share; • Options to purchase 921,059 shares at $20.85 per share; • Options to purchase 10,233 shares at $23.42 per share; • Options to purchase 67,172 shares at $23.83 per share; • Options to purchase 2,456 shares at $33.09 per share; and • Options to purchase 2,401 shares at $44.39 per share. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or a perception that such sales could occur, and the existence of options to purchase shares of common stock at prices that may be below the then current market price of the common stock, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, restated bylaws and stockholder rights plan contain provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change of control without our board of directors’ approval. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws contain provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change of control without our board of directors’ approval, such as: • our board of directors is authorized to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; • our board of directors is classified; and • advance notice is required for director nominations by stockholders and actions to be taken at annual meetings at the request of stockholders. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan. The provisions described above and the stockholder rights plan could impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to take control of us, even if that change of control might be beneficial to stockholders, thus increasing the likelihood that incumbent directors will retain their positions. In certain circumstances, the fact that corporate devices are in place that will inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 