Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to various risks, including the risks described below. Our operations, financial condition and performance and, therefore, the market value of our Common Stock could be adversely affected by any of these risks or additional risks not presently known or that we currently deem immaterial. Difficult market conditions continue to adversely affect our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, followed by unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and consumer loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These write-downs spread to other securities and loans and have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. In this environment, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and reduction of business activity generally. Continuing economic pressure on consumers may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. Recent levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have recently experienced volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. If recent levels of market disruption and volatility recur, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our mortgage banking revenue is sensitive to changes in economic conditions, decreased economic activity, a slowdown in the housing market or higher interest rates and may adversely impact our profits. Our mortgage banking segment is a significant portion of our consolidated business and maintaining our revenue stream in this segment is dependent upon our ability to originate loans and sell them to investors. Loan production levels are sensitive to changes in economic conditions and recently have suffered from a slowdown in the local housing market and tightening credit conditions. Any sustained period of decreased activity caused by further housing price pressure, loan underwriting restrictions or higher interest rates would adversely affect our mortgage originations and, consequently, reduce our income from mortgage banking activities. As a result, these conditions would also adversely affect our net income. Deteriorating economic conditions may also cause home buyers to default on their mortgages. In certain of these cases where we have originated loans and sold them to investors, we may be required to repurchase loans or provide a financial settlement to investors if it is proven that the borrower failed to provide full and accurate information on or related to their loan application or for which appraisals have not been acceptable or when the loan was not underwritten in accordance with the loan program specified by the loan investor. Such repurchases or settlements would also adversely affect our net income. 21 Table of Contents George Mason, as part of the service it provides to its managed companies, purchases the loans managed companies originate at the time of origination. These loans are then sold by George Mason to investors. George Mason has agreements with its managed companies requiring that, for any loans that were originated by a managed company and for which investors have requested George Mason to repurchase due to the borrowers failure to provide full and accurate information on or related to their loan application or for which appraisals have not been acceptable or when the loan was not underwritten in accordance with the loan program specified by the loan investor, the managed company be responsible for buying back the loan. In the event that the managed company's financial condition deteriorates and it is unable to fund the repurchase of such loans, George Mason may have to provide the funds to repurchase these loans from investors. We have goodwill and other intangibles that may become impaired, and thus result in a charge against earnings. At December 31, 2009, we had $10.1 million and $2.8 million of goodwill related to the George Mason and Wilson/Bennett acquisitions, respectively. In addition, we have identified and recorded other intangible assets, such as customer relationships and trade names, as of the acquisition dates of both George Mason and Wilson/Bennett. The carrying amounts of these intangibles at December 31, 2009 was $742,000 at George Mason and $127,000 at Wilson/Bennett. Goodwill and other intangibles are tested for impairment on an annual basis or when facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. As noted above, our mortgage banking segment is sensitive to changes in economic conditions, decreased economic activity, a slowdown in the housing market and higher interest rates. During the third quarter of 2008, we recorded a noncash impairment charge of $2.8 million in the mortgage banking segment. The aforementioned factors may result in an additional impairment charge related to the goodwill and other intangibles at George Mason if we determine the carrying value of the reporting unit, including its goodwill and other intangible assets, is greater than their fair value. During 2009, we performed the required annual test for impairment of goodwill related to our acquisition of George Mason, and our analysis showed the current carrying value of goodwill to be less than the fair value. Therefore, no impairment was recorded. During 2009 and 2008, we performed the required annual test for impairment of goodwill related to our acquisition of Wilson/Bennett, and no goodwill impairment was indicated. However, future decreases in assets managed by Wilson/Bennett as a result of declines in its client base or the lack of success in attracting and maintaining new clients may result in a decline in investment management fees and may result in a future impairment charge. We may be forced to recognize impairment charges in the future as operating and economic conditions change. We may be adversely impacted by changes in the condition of financial markets. We are directly and indirectly affected by changes in market conditions. Market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. Market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and activities including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, and derivatives. Just a few of the market conditions that may shift from time to time, thereby exposing us to market risk, include fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, equity and futures prices, and price deterioration or changes in value due to changes in market perception or actual credit quality of issuers. Accordingly, depending on the instruments or activities impacted, market risks can have adverse effects on our results of operations and our overall financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Recently, the subprime mortgage market dislocation has also impacted the ratings of certain monoline insurance providers which, in turn, has affected the pricing of certain municipal securities and the liquidity of the short term public finance markets. We have some exposure to monolines and, as a result, are continuing to monitor this exposure as the markets evolve. We have investments in pooled trust preferred securities, totaling $8.0 million at December 31, 2009. The collateral underlying these structured securities are instruments issued by financial institutions or insurers. We own the A-3 tranches in each issue. Each of these bonds are rated by more than one rating agency. Two of the securities have composite ratings of AA and two of the securities have a composite rating of BBB. These ratings are consistent with the grades from other rating agencies. There is minimal observable trading activity for these types of securities. We have estimated the fair value of the securities through the use of internal calculations and through information provided by external pricing services. Given the level of subordination below our A-3 tranches, and the actual and expected performance of the underlying collateral, we expect to receive all contractual interest and principal payments and concluded that these securities are not other-than-temporarily impaired. These securities are classified as held-to-maturity. We may be adversely affected by economic conditions in our market area. We are headquartered in Northern Virginia, and our market is the greater Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. Because our lending and deposit-gathering activities are concentrated in this market, we will be affected by the general economic conditions in the greater Washington area, which may, among other factors, be impacted by the level of federal government spending. Changes in the economy, and government spending in particular, may influence the growth rate of our loans and deposits, the quality of the loan portfolio and loan and deposit pricing. A significant decline in general economic condition caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors, would impact these local economic conditions and the demand for banking products and services generally, and could negatively affect our financial condition and performance. Our concentration in commercial real estate and business loans may increase our future credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Approximately 86% of our loans are secured by real estate, both residential and commercial, substantially all of which are located in our market area. A major change in the region's real estate market, resulting in a deterioration in real estate values, or in the local or national economy, including changes caused by raising interest rates, could adversely affect our customers' ability to pay these loans, which in turn could adversely impact us. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are inherent in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by carefully underwriting and monitoring our extensions of credit. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur in the future. Commercial real estate and business loans increase our exposure to credit risks. At December 31, 2009, our portfolio of commercial and industrial and commercial real estate (including construction) totaled $945.5 million, or 73% of total loans. We plan to continue to emphasize the origination of loans to small and medium-sized businesses as well as government contractors, professionals, such as physicians, accountants and attorneys, and commercial real estate developers and builders, which generally exposes us to a greater risk of nonpayment and loss than residential real estate loans because repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operations and cash flows of the borrowers. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. Also, many of our borrowers have more than one commercial loan outstanding. Consequently, an 23 Table of Contents adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a residential real estate loan. In addition, these small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. This concentration also exposes us more to the market risks of real estate sales leasing and other activity in the areas we serve. An adverse change in local real estate conditions and markets could materially adversely affect the values of our loans and the real estate held as collateral for such loans, and materially affect our results of operation and financial condition. During 2006, the federal bank regulatory agencies released guidance on "Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending" (the "Guidance"). The Guidance defines commercial real estate ("CRE") loans as exposures secured by raw land, land development and construction (including 1-4 family residential construction), multi-family property, and non-farm nonresidential property where the primary or a significant source of repayment is derived from rental income associated with the property (that is, loans for which 50% or more of the source of repayment comes from third party, non-affiliated, rental income) or the proceeds of the sale, refinancing, or permanent financing of the property. The Guidance requires that appropriate processes be in place to identify, monitor and control risks associated with real estate lending concentrations. This could include enhanced strategic planning, CRE underwriting policies, risk management, internal controls, portfolio stress testing and risk exposure limits as well as appropriately designed compensation and incentive programs. Higher allowances for loan losses and capital levels may also be required. The Guidance is triggered when CRE loan concentrations exceed either: •Total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land of 100% or more of a bank's total capital; or •Total reported loans secured by multifamily and nonfarm nonresidential properties and loans for construction, land development, and other land of 300% or more of a bank's capital. The Guidance applies to our CRE lending activities. Although our regulators have not required us to maintain elevated levels of capital or liquidity due to our CRE concentrations, the regulators may do so in the future, especially if there is a material downturn in our local real estate markets. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and analysis of the loan portfolio, management determines the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses by considering such factors as general and industry-specific market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and financial performance of our loan customers relative to their financial obligations to us. The amount of future losses is impacted by changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control. Actual losses may exceed our current estimates. Rapidly growing loan portfolios are, by their nature, unseasoned. Estimating loan loss allowances for an unseasoned portfolio is more difficult than with seasoned portfolios, and may be more susceptible to changes in estimates and to losses exceeding estimates. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot fully predict such losses or assert that our loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Future loan losses that are greater than current estimates could have a material impact on our future financial performance. Banking regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize additional loan charge-offs, based on credit judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in the amount of our allowance or loans 24 Table of Contents charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our liquidity could be impaired by our inability to access the capital markets on favorable terms. Liquidity is essential to our business. Under normal business conditions, primary sources of funding for our parent company may include dividends received from banking and nonbanking subsidiaries and proceeds from the issuance of equity capital in the capital markets. The primary sources of funding for our banking subsidiary include customer deposits and wholesale market-based funding. Our liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets or by unforeseen outflows of cash, including deposits. This situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption, negative views about the financial services industry generally, or an operational problem that affects third parties or us. For further discussion or our liquidity position and other liquidity matters, including policies and procedures we use to manage our liquidity risks, see "Capital Resources" and "Liquidity" in Item 7 of this report. The impact on us of recently enacted legislation, in particular the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and their implementing regulations, and actions by the FDIC, cannot be predicted at this time. The programs established or to be established under the EESA, ARRA and Troubled Asset Relief Program may have adverse effects upon us. We may face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific programs may subject us to additional restrictions. Similarly, programs established by the FDIC under the systemic risk exception of the FDA, whether we participate or not, may have an adverse effect on us. Continued participation in the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program likely will require the payment of additional insurance premiums to the FDIC. We may be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The affects of participating or not participating in any such programs, and the extent of our participation in such programs cannot reliably be determined at this time. Legislative and regulatory changes could materially change our business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Congress and the U.S. government continue to evaluate and develop various programs and initiatives designed to stabilize the financial and housing markets and stimulate the economy, including the Treasury's Financial Stability Plan and various legislation and programs reduce residential mortgage foreclosures and stabilize the housing market. Legislative and regulatory proposals regarding changes in banking, and the regulation of banks, thrifts, mortgage lenders and other financial institutions are being considered by the executive branch of the Federal government, Congress and various state governments. Certain of these proposals, if adopted, could significantly change the regulation or operations of banks and the financial services industry. New regulations and statutes are regularly proposed that contain wide-ranging proposals for altering the structures, regulations and competitive relationships of the nation's financial institutions and markets. Another change under discussion includes the regulation of compensation in the financial services industry, generally. We cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed law or regulation will be adopted or the extent to which our business may be affected by any new law or regulation. The current stresses on the financial system and the economy generally, the powers granted to the Treasury under EESA and the ARRA, the expansion and supervision of government sponsored financial programs make the nature and extent of future 25 Table of Contents legislative and regulatory changes affecting financial institutions are unpredictable and subject to rapid changes. These changes are rapid and unpredictable. Any of these changes could materially change our business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may cause our earnings to decrease. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 temporarily increased the limit on FDIC coverage to $250,000 for all accounts through December 31, 2009. This has subsequently been extended to December 31, 2013. We are participating in the FDIC's Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, or TLG, for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts. The FDIC almost doubled its assessment rate on well-capitalized institutions by raising the assessment rate 7 basis points at the beginning of 2009. In May 2009, the FDIC issued a final rule regarding a special assessment of 5 basis points on an institution's total assets minus its Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. The FDIC adopted another final rule effective April 1, 2009, to change the way that the FDIC's assessment system differentiates for risk, make corresponding changes to assessment rates beginning with the second quarter of 2009, as well as other changes to the deposit insurance assessment rules. In November 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule to require insured financial institutions to prepay slightly over three years of estimated insurance payments on December 20, 2009. The prepayment allows the FDIC to strengthen the cash position of the Deposit Insurance Fund immediately without immediately impacting earnings of the industry. Banks that participate in the TLG's noninterest bearing transaction account guarantee will pay the FDIC an annual assessment of 10 basis points on the amounts in such accounts above the amounts covered by FDIC deposit insurance. To the extent that these TLG assessments are insufficient to cover any loss or expenses arising from the TLG program, the FDIC is authorized to impose an emergency special assessment on FDIC-insured depository institutions. Legislation has been proposed to give the FDIC authority to impose charges for the TLG program upon depository institution holding companies, as well. These changes will cause the premiums and TLG assessments charged by the FDIC to increase. These actions could significantly increase our noninterest expense for the foreseeable future. A substantial decline in the value of our Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta common stock may result in an other-than temporary impairment charge. We are a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta, or FHLB, which enables us to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank advance program. As a FHLB member, we are required to own FHLB common stock, the amount of which increases with the level of our FHLB borrowings. The carrying value of our FHLB common stock was $15.7 million as of December 31, 2009. The FHLB has suspended daily repurchases of FHLB common stock, which adversely affects the liquidity of these shares. If the financial condition of FHLB deteriorates, there is a risk that our investment could be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at some time in the future. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 26 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully manage our growth or implement our growth strategies, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. During the last five years, we have experienced significant growth, and a key aspect of our business strategy is our continued growth and expansion. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to: •open new branch offices or acquire existing branches or other financial institutions; •attract deposits to those locations and cross-sell new and existing depositors additional products and services; and •identify attractive loan and investment opportunities. We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy if we are unable to identify attractive markets, locations or opportunities to expand. Our ability to successfully manage our growth will also depend upon our ability to maintain capital levels sufficient to support this growth, maintain effective cost controls and adequate asset quality such that earnings are not adversely impacted to a material degree. As we continue to implement our growth strategy by opening new branches or acquiring branches or other banks, we expect to incur increased personnel, occupancy and other operating expenses. In the case of new branches, we must absorb those higher expenses while we begin to generate new deposits, and there is a further time lag involved in redeploying new deposits into attractively priced loans and other higher yielding earning assets. Thus, our plans to branch aggressively could depress our earnings in the short run, even if we efficiently execute our branching strategy. We rely heavily on our management team and the unexpected loss of any of those personnel could adversely affect our operations; we depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We are a customer-focused and relationship-driven organization. We expect our future growth to be driven in a large part by the relationships maintained with our customers by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bernard H. Clineburg, and our other executive and senior lending officers. We have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Clineburg and four other executive officers. The existence of such agreements, however, does not necessarily assure us that we will be able to continue to retain their services. The unexpected loss of Mr. Clineburg or other key employees could have a significant adverse effect on our business and possibly result in reduced revenues and earnings. We maintain bank owned life insurance policies on all of our corporate executives. The implementation of our business strategy will also require us to continue to attract, hire, motivate and retain skilled personnel to develop new customer relationships, as well as develop new financial products and services. Many experienced banking professionals employed by our competitors are covered by agreements not to compete or solicit their existing customers if they were to leave their current employment. These agreements make the recruitment of these professionals more difficult. While we have been recently successful in acquiring what we consider to be talented banking professionals, the market for talented people is competitive and we may not continue to be successful in attracting, hiring, motivating or retaining experienced banking professionals. We may incur losses if we are unable to successfully manage interest rate risk. Our future profitability will substantially depend upon our ability to maintain or increase the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates will affect our operating performance and financial condition. The shape of the yield curve can also impact net interest income. Changing rates will impact how fast our mortgage loans and mortgage backed securities will have the principal 27 Table of Contents repaid. Rate changes can also impact the behavior of our depositors, especially depositors in non-maturity deposits such as demand, interest checking, savings and money market accounts. While we attempt to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, we are unable to eliminate it as it is an inherent part of our business. Our net interest spread will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and industry-specific conditions and economic conditions generally. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking and financial services industry. We face vigorous competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, savings banks, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other types of financial institutions for deposits, loans and other financial services in our market area. A number of these banks and other financial institutions are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, as well as larger lending limits and branch systems, and offer a wider array of banking services. Many of our nonbank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. As a result, these nonbank competitors have advantages over us in providing certain services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins and our market share and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our businesses and earnings are impacted by governmental, fiscal and monetary policy. We are affected by domestic monetary policy. For example, the Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States and its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending, investing and capital raising activities and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. The actions of the Federal Reserve Board also can materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, such as loans and debt securities, and its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Our businesses and earnings also are affected by the fiscal or other policies that are adopted by various regulatory authorities of the United States. Changes in fiscal or monetary policy are beyond our control and hard to predict. Our profitability and the value of any equity investment in us may suffer because of rapid and unpredictable changes in the highly regulated environment in which we operate. We are subject to extensive supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies at the federal and state levels. Recently enacted, proposed and future banking and other legislation and regulations have had, and will continue to have, or may have a significant impact on the financial services industry. These regulations, which are generally intended to protect depositors and not our shareholders, and the interpretation and application of them by federal and state regulators, are beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably, and can be expected to influence our earnings and growth. Our success depends on our continued ability to maintain compliance with these regulations. Many of these regulations increase our costs and thus place other financial institutions that may not be subject to similar regulation in stronger, more favorable competitive positions. If we need additional capital in the future to continue our growth, we may not be able to obtain it on terms that are favorable. This could negatively affect our performance and the value of our common stock. Our business strategy calls for continued growth. We anticipate that we will be able to support this growth through the generation of additional deposits at existing and new branch locations, as well as expanded loan and other investment opportunities. However, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to support our continued growth and to maintain desired capital levels. Our ability to raise 28 Table of Contents capital through the sale of additional equity securities or the placement of financial instruments that qualify as regulatory capital will depend primarily upon our financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the amounts or on terms satisfactory to us. Our growth may be constrained if we are unable to raise additional capital as needed. We have extended off-balance sheet commitments to borrowers which expose us to credit and interest rate risk. We enter into certain off-balance sheet arrangements in the normal course of business to meet the financing needs of our customers. These off-balance sheet arrangements include commitments to extend credit, standby letters of credit and guarantees which would impact our liquidity and capital resources to the extent customers accept or use these commitments. These instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit and interest rate risk in excess of the amount recognized in the balance sheet. Our exposure to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the other party to the financial instrument for commitments to extend credit and standby letters of credit and guarantees written is represented by the contractual or notional amount of those instruments. We use the same credit policies in making commitments and conditional obligations as we do for on-balance-sheet instruments. We have operational risk that could impact our ability to provide services to our customers. We have potential operational risk exposure throughout our organization. Integral to our performance is the continued effectiveness and efficiency of our technical systems, operational infrastructure, relationships with third parties and key individuals involved in our ongoing activities. Failure by any or all of these resources subjects us to risks that may vary in size, scale and scope. This includes but is not limited to operational or technical failures, unlawful tampering with our information technology infrastructure, terrorist activities, ineffectiveness or exposure due to interruption in third party support, as well as the loss of key individuals or failure on the part of the key individuals to perform properly. We may be parties to certain legal proceedings that may impact our earnings. We face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial impact or cause significant reputational risk to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. Our ability to pay dividends is limited and we may be unable to pay future dividends. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital in the Company and in our subsidiaries. The ability of our bank subsidiary to pay dividends to us is limited by their obligations to maintain sufficient capital, earnings and liquidity and by other general restrictions on their dividends under federal and state bank regulatory requirements. In addition, as a bank holding company, our ability to declare and pay dividends is subject to the guidelines of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or the Federal Reserve, regarding capital adequacy and dividends. The Federal Reserve guidelines generally require us to review the effects of the cash payment of dividends on common stock and other Tier 1 capital instruments (i.e., perpetual preferred stock and trust preferred debt) on our financial condition. These guidelines also require that we review our net income for the current and past four quarters, and the level of dividends on common stock and other Tier 1 capital instruments for those periods, as well as our projected rate or earnings retention. Under the Federal Reserve's policy, the board of directors of a bank holding company should also consider different factors to ensure that its dividend level is prudent 29 Table of Contents relative to the organization's financial position and is not based on overly optimistic earnings scenarios such as any potential events that may occur before the payment date that could affect its ability to pay while still maintaining a strong financial position. As a general matter, the Federal Reserve has indicated that the board of directors of a bank holding company should consult with the Federal Reserve and eliminate, defer, or significantly reduce bank holding company's dividends if: (i) its net income available to shareholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends; (ii) its prospective rate of earnings retention is not consistent with its capital needs and overall current and prospective financial condition; or (iii) it will not meet, or is in danger of not meeting, its minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios. If we do not satisfy these regulatory requirements or the Federal Reserve's policies, we will be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 30 Table of Contents 