Risk Factors. 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 16 Item 2. Properties. 16 Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 16 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. 17 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 18 Item 6. Selected Financial Data. 21 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 22 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 36 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 36 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 83 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. 83 Item 9B. Other Information. 83 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 83 Item 11. Executive Compensation. 84 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 84 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 84 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services. 85 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. 85 Signatures 88 Stock Plan for Non-Management Directors Supplementary Retirement Plan, as amended 401(k) Profit Sharing Plan, as amended Stock Ownership Plan, as amended Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement Form of Stock Settled Stock Appreciation Rights Award Agreement 2006 Stock Incentive Plan Subsidiaries of the Company Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Certification of Chief Executive Officer and President Certification of Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer and President 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Table of Contents [Page Intentionally Left Blank] Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General We are the largest footwear specialty retailer based upon number of locations in the Western Hemisphere, with 4,572 retail stores in 15 countries and territories as of the fiscal year ended February 3, 2007 (“2006”). Our Payless ShoeSource retail stores in the United States, Canada, the Caribbean, Central America, and South America sold over 177 million pairs of footwear during fiscal 2006. Payless ShoeSource® stores sell a broad assortment of quality footwear, including athletic, casual and dress shoes, sandals, work and fashion boots, slippers, and accessories such as handbags and hosiery. All references to years are to our fiscal year unless otherwise stated. Payless ShoeSource stores offer fashionable, quality, private and branded label footwear and accessories for women, men and children at affordable prices in a self-selection shopping format. Our stores feature several designer and mainstream footwear brands including Abaete for Payless, Airwalk®, American Eagle™, Champion® and Spalding®. We seek to compete effectively by getting to market with differentiated, trend-right merchandise before mass-market discounters and at the same time as department and specialty retailers but at a more compelling value. As of fiscal year-end 2006, each Payless ShoeSource store stocked on average approximately 7,200 pairs of footwear. Our mission is to become the first choice for style and value in footwear and accessories for our target customers. We focus our marketing efforts on women consumers between the ages of 18 and 49 with household incomes of less than $75,000. We believe this group of consumers makes a disproportionately large share of household footwear purchasing decisions. We believe that approximately one-third of these target consumers purchased at least one pair of footwear from our stores last year. In 2006, we generated net sales from continuing operations of $2.80 billion, as compared with $2.67 billion in 2005. History We were founded in Topeka, Kansas in 1956 with a strategy of selling low-cost, high-quality family footwear on a self-service basis. In 1962, we became a public company. In 1979, we were acquired by The May Department Stores Company of St. Louis, Missouri. On May 4, 1996, we became an independent public company as a result of a spin-off from The May Department Stores Company. Our common stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) under the symbol “PSS.” Our principal executive offices are located at 3231 Southeast Sixth Avenue, Topeka, Kansas 66607-2207, and our telephone number is (785) 233-5171. Segments and Geographic Areas We operate our business in two segments, Payless Domestic and Payless International. The Payless Domestic segment includes retail operations in the United States, Guam and Saipan. The Payless International segment includes retail operations in Canada; Puerto Rico; the U.S. Virgin Islands; the South American Region which includes Ecuador; and the Central American Region which includes Costa Rica, Guatemala, El Salvador, the Dominican Republic, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama and Trinidad and Tobago. Our operations in the Central and South American Regions are operated as joint ventures in which we maintain a 60-percent ownership interest. For a more detailed discussion of our segments and geographic areas please see the discussion contained in Note 17 “Segment Reporting” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Mission Our mission is to become the first choice for style and value in footwear and accessories for our target customers. We plan to realize this by focusing on growing our core footwear and accessories businesses, while growing our earnings per share in the mid-teen percentage range over time. To achieve this goal, we must consistently execute tactics embodied in our strategic plan. 1 Table of Contents Positioning Payless ShoeSource® as the leading Mass Specialty Footwear and Accessories Retailer Through our customer focused organization and infrastructure, Payless ShoeSource is positioning itself as the leading mass specialty footwear and accessories retailer by consistently delivering on our customer promise and executing against our four strategic themes required to deliver our customer promise. Our Customer Promise Establish an emotional connection with target customers by providing on-trend and distinctive product, maintaining key items in-stock, and providing exceptional value. In addition, we strive to deliver a great shopping experience for our customers through delivering compelling brands and product across categories and price-points that are communicated through aspirational messaging and imaging. Strategic Themes • Provide product that is on-trend, differentiated, distinctive and inspired by select popular fashion trends and pop culture for all of our target customers, but with a primary focus on expressive women and expressive moms. • Improve brand marketing effectiveness by implementing a “house of brands” architecture that covers all of our major customer segments and builds distinctiveness and focus in our product assortment. • Provide a great shopping experience through improved customer engagement, and leveraging our real estate to support new store formats consistent with the repositioning of our brand. • Maintain efficient operations by building greater speed and flexibility into the supply chain to deliver the right product to the right store at the right time in the appropriate proportions across the approximately 4,600 store network. On-Trend Targeted Product We identify fashion trends timely and integrate these insights into on-trend product in our stores. For a more detailed discussion please see the Overview in Item 7. Brand Marketing With approximately 4,600 stores, we have strong brand recognition. In 2006, we sold over 177 million pairs of footwear in our Payless ShoeSource stores, making Payless one of the largest family footwear specialty retailers in the Western Hemisphere by unit sales. We average nearly 600 million customer visits per year. We have three primary marketing objectives which are to (i) effectively position the Payless brand, (ii) increase awareness and drive traffic and transactions into our stores through a planned promotional cadence; and (iii) create market excitement for our brand through select public relations events. This is achieved by our multi-dimensional marketing efforts that include nationally broadcast television, radio, on-line and magazine advertising to strengthen our established brand name, reinforce our broad consumer recognition and support our promotional events. We regularly advertise on television, reaching households across the nation, as well as through free-standing inserts delivered to approximately 25 million homes periodically during the year, in order to support key promotional events. In addition to media support, we utilize in-store promotional materials, including posters, signs and point of sale items, as well as our store associates to convey our message to the customer. Our new brand essence, “Inspiring fun fashion possibilities for the family ... Payless,” is helping define Payless as the fun fashion source for footwear and accessories for the family. In addition to our in-house marketing team, we collaborate with outside creative and media services. In June 2006, we officially launched the new Payless logo – the first redesign of the Payless logo in about 20 years – which incorporates key design elements that leverage our rich heritage and communicates a “new and improved” Payless, a brand that is contemporary, fun, friendly, and above all, stylish. The logo amplifies the Payless brand essence. 2 Table of Contents Shopping Experience In 2006, Payless tested and launched two key new store design formats. These formats are called Hot Zones and Fashion Labs. Hot Zones are a redesign of the front of our store that have experienced mid-to-high single digit percentage lift in same store sales. In Hot Zones, new merchandise is grouped by style on new display tables and low gondolas in the front of the store. This new store design format opens up the front of the store, provides better visibility, and allows for better display of new fashion trends. The Fashion Lab is a completely new store design that elevates the shopping experience and our status as a specialty store destination. This new store design is more vibrant, engaging, and easier to navigate. Men and women’s footwear is organized by style with easy-to-find sizes nearby. The children’s footwear section is still organized by size since this is how our customers prefer to shop for children’s footwear. We believe that our real estate strategy provides us with the ability to optimally locate our stores in places that are convenient for large numbers of consumers, as well as the flexibility to react to shifts in consumer demographics. We strategically locate our stores in a variety of retail formats to maximize convenience and accessibility for our broad consumer base, including central business districts, shopping malls, free-standing buildings, strip centers, and leased departments within other retailers. To maintain flexibility, we generally enter into leases with initial terms of five to ten years and either one or two renewal options. In 2006, it cost us approximately $270,000 in capital expenditures to open a new store. During 2007, we expect the average capital costs for a new store to increase to approximately $330,000. During 2006, we opened 63 new stores. During the same period, we closed 96 stores. In addition, we relocated 106 stores. Efficient Operations We review all of the significant operational elements of our business model to maximize financial returns. Recently, we announced a plan to invest approximately $70 million over the next two years in a dual-distribution center model. Investing in our business will remain a top priority. For a more detailed discussion please see the Overview in Item 7. Experienced Management Team Our management team is composed of seasoned retail executives. Our 12 most senior executives have an average of 24 years of retail experience. The five executive officers of Payless have been with the Company for an average of more than 15 years. Our International Business Since opening our first store in Canada in 1997, our international presence has grown substantially. As of year-end, we had 586 stores in 10 countries, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. In September 2000, we entered into a joint venture to operate Payless ShoeSource stores in the Central American Region. In November 2001, we entered into a joint venture to operate Payless ShoeSource stores in South America. In 2003, we entered into a joint venture with Nichimen Corporation (which has since become Sojitz Corporation) to try the Payless concept in Japan. Under this arrangement, we opened our first store in Japan in November 2004. However, we ceased retail operations in Japan in 2006. We also wholesale footwear internationally. 3 Table of Contents Stores As of February 3, 2007, we operated a total of 4,572 stores in a single retail format, Payless ShoeSource. The domestic and international segments are represented in the tables below. Domestic Segment Alaska 8 Louisiana 62 Oklahoma 46 Alabama 35 Massachusetts 97 Oregon 50 Arkansas 41 Maryland 72 Pennsylvania 162 Arizona 85 Maine 12 Rhode Island 14 California 543 Michigan 134 South Carolina 38 Colorado 55 Minnesota 49 South Dakota 16 Connecticut 47 Missouri 77 Tennessee 49 District of Columbia 8 Mississippi 48 Texas 393 Delaware 9 Montana 14 Utah 52 Florida 284 North Carolina 65 Virginia 81 Georgia 97 North Dakota 7 Vermont 7 Hawaii 17 Nebraska 34 Washington 87 Iowa 34 New Hampshire 18 Wisconsin 78 Idaho 30 New Jersey 128 West Virginia 14 Illinois 192 New Mexico 28 Wyoming 5 Indiana 61 Nevada 34 Kansas 35 New York 257 Guam* 2 Kentucky 33 Ohio 141 Saipan* 1 Total Domestic Segment Store Count 3,986 * Guam and Saipan reflected as U.S. Territories 4 Table of Contents International Segment Canada Ontario 140 All Other 175 Total Canada 315 Central America Costa Rica 22 Dominican Republic 16 El Salvador 22 Guatemala 35 Honduras 16 Nicaragua 12 Panama 18 Trinidad/Tobago 11 Total Central America 152 South America Ecuador 31 Puerto Rico 83 U.S. Virgin Islands 5 Total International Segment Store Count 586 Payless ShoeSource® Stores The average size of our Payless ShoeSource stores in the United States and Canada is approximately 3,200 square feet. The average Payless ShoeSource store in the United States and Canada has between four and six associates, including a store manager. During 2006, each Payless store in the United States and Canada carried on average approximately 7,200 pairs of shoes. Payless ShoeSource stores operate in a variety of real estate formats, including shopping malls, central business districts, free-standing buildings, strip centers, and leased departments in ShopKo stores. At year-end, 465 locations incorporated a “Payless Kids” area which has approximately 974 additional square feet of selling space devoted to an expanded assortment of children’s shoes. In 1999, we entered into a 10-year strategic alliance with ShopKo Stores, Inc., a discount retailer with stores primarily in the Midwest, Western Mountain, and Pacific Northwest regions, through which we operate Payless ShoeSource shoe departments within ShopKo® stores. This alliance provides an additional distribution channel for our products. As of year-end, there were 132 of these locations. Our Central American and South American Regions operate in a variety of real estate formats, including shopping malls, central business districts, free-standing buildings and strip centers. The average size of our Payless ShoeSource stores in the Central American Region is approximately 2,500 square feet. The average size of our Payless ShoeSource stores in the South American Region is approximately 2,900 square feet. At year-end, the average Payless ShoeSource store in the Central American Region and South American Region typically has between five and six associates, including a store manager, respectively. Dyelights(SM) We also operate a shoe dyeing facility through our Dyelights(SM) business. Currently, Dyelights shoes are exclusively offered through our Payless ShoeSource stores. Customers select the color they would like their shoes to be dyed from a color book. The shoes are dyed to the Customer’s specifications and are available for pickup in approximately ten days at the Payless 5 Table of Contents ShoeSource store where ordered. Customers may also elect to pay a shipping cost and have the shoes delivered to their home address. Employees As of February 3, 2007, we had approximately 27,100 employees, including approximately 11,350 U.S. and 1,100 Canadian full-time associates and 12,900 U.S. and 1,000 Canadian part-time associates, as well as approximately 540 primarily full-time associates in the Central American and South American Regions and approximately 200 in Asia. Approximately 475 of our distribution center general warehouse associates and 140 of our other associates are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Store Management and Systems All of our stores are equipped with electronic point of sale registers and a back office computer except the ShopKo locations which are equipped only with a back office computer. The store computer can provide price look-up, daily communications with our corporate headquarters and other functions. Store associates receive frequent communications through the back office computer from our corporate headquarters describing promotional events, price changes, and time-sensitive operational updates. In general, each retail location is managed by a Store Manager and is assigned to a district. Store Managers report to District Managers who, in turn, report to Directors of Retail Operations who have full responsibility for the stores in their region. Human Resources, loss prevention, inventory control functions, accounting, logistics support, information technology, and other more general support services are generally coordinated from our Topeka, Kansas corporate headquarters. In addition, we have accounting offices in Costa Rica, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Ecuador, Panama, and the Dominican Republic that support the Central and South American Regions. Competition The retail footwear and accessories market is highly competitive. The retail footwear and accessories industry can be divided into three segments: high, moderate and value-priced. The high-priced segment is comprised principally of department and specialty stores. The moderate-priced segment, which includes specialty shoe chains, mass-merchandisers and mid-tier department stores, has no single dominant competitor. The value-priced segment includes Payless and other large national discount merchandisers. With our breadth of assortment, we face a variety of competitive challenges from domestic and international footwear retailers, including traditional shoe stores, department stores, branded discount stores, sporting goods retailers, direct retailers, and mass-market discount retailers. In addition, many retailers who have not traditionally carried footwear have added various footwear and accessories including seasonal, specialty and general footwear in their merchandise assortment. The primary competitive levers to establish a point of differentiation in our industry are merchandise selection, flow and timing, pricing, fashion, product quality and aesthetics, convenience and in-store experience. We seek to compete effectively by getting to market with differentiated, trend-right merchandise before mass-market discounters such as Wal-Mart and Target and at the same time as department and specialty retailers such as Sears, Kohl’s, J.C. Penney, Nine West and Foot Locker, but at a more compelling value. Seasonality The domestic retail footwear market is characterized by four high volume seasons: Easter, early summer, back-to-school, and winter. During each of these periods, we increase our inventory levels to support the increased demand for our products, as well as offer styles particularly suited for the relevant season, such as sandals in the early summer season and boots during the fall season. The retail footwear market in Central and South America is also seasonal and is characterized by stronger sales in December and the back-to-school season. 6 Table of Contents Customer Service Our stores offer customers a broad assortment of quality footwear in a convenient self-selection format. Our self-selection shopping format allows customers to select their own shoes or to seek help from one of our trained associates. Sales associates are trained to use a device to measure feet, and to check key areas, such as the toe box, for proper fit. Our stores also offer one of the broadest customer satisfaction guarantees in the industry: if a customer is not completely satisfied with a purchase, he or she can return it, generally even if the item is worn. We believe our sales associates provide a level of customer service that is generally not available in mass-market discount stores. Sales associates are trained to sell footwear and complementary accessories, and to provide customers with the assistance needed to guide the purchase decision, support customer satisfaction and to encourage return visits to our stores. We continue to train all of our store associates on engaging customers in order to drive higher conversion rates. In 2006, we converted more of our customer traffic into sales versus in the previous year. Our customer satisfaction metrics also trended more favorably in 2006 than the previous year. Data on these metrics are gathered through company and third party survey techniques. Purchasing and Distribution Purchasing We procure products in two different ways. First, about half of our product is sourced through our direct distribution network. And secondly, we engage third party agents to procure products which we cannot or do not want to procure ourselves. Our direct distribution network is made up of development, sourcing, and transitional centers. These centers perform many functions including: executing product direction from Topeka; generating samples; quality control; production management and follow-up; and more. Our centers are closely aligned with large factories, which we rely on heavily, which serve as our vendors. We typically give these factories specifications and performance standards and bid jobs out to multiple factories. Approximately 15 core factories account for 70% of our footwear purchases. If any one of them were to be unable to supply our needs consistent with prior performance, we might experience disruptions in shoe deliveries. However, we have about 100 factories with whom we do run-over and special approval business, and we believe these factories can fill production voids if necessary. We believe our relationships with our factory base are good. Factories in the People’s Republic of China are a direct source of approximately 96% of our footwear based on cost. Products are manufactured to meet our specifications and standards. We do not purchase “seconds” or “overruns.” Our direct distribution network is made up of facilities in the United States, Brazil, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Vietnam. Production Management and Quality Assurance The production management organization manages an ongoing process to qualify and approve new factories, while continually assessing existing factory service and quality of performance. New factories must meet specified quality and safety standards for shoe production and minimum capacity requirements. They must also agree to our production control processes and certify that neither they nor their suppliers use forced or child labor. Factory performance is regularly monitored. If a factory does not continue to meet or exceed our requirements, the factory risks being removed from our list of approved factories. The production management organization utilizes a unique, internally developed production control process by which we are electronically linked to the factories and agents. This process is designed to ensure on-time deliveries of merchandise with minimum lead time and at reduced costs. Our quality assurance organization also provides technical design support for our direct purchasing function. It is responsible for review and approval of agent and factory technical design, for worldwide laboratory testing of materials and components, and for performing in-factory product inspections to ensure that materials and factory production techniques are consistent with our specifications. We locate our field inspection personnel close to the factories and freight consolidation facilities we use throughout the world. 7 Table of Contents Merchandise Distribution We base our decisions on how to stock our stores using several criteria. We consider the customer profile of our store locations based on demographics, shopping behavior and appetite for fashion. Also, we consider seasonality and climate by geography which impacts the timing of our flow. In addition, we consider our stores’ sales volume, selling history, and the categories of products they tend to sell when deciding how to stock our stores. Our merchandise distribution system allows us to track shoes by pair from order placement through sale to the customer by the use of perpetual inventory, product planning and sourcing systems. These systems are maintained by experienced information systems personnel and are enhanced regularly to improve the product distribution process. Stores generally receive new merchandise on average twice a week in an effort to maintain a constant flow of fresh and replenished merchandise. We currently operate a single distribution center (including office space) and dyeing facility in Topeka, Kansas totaling approximately 850,000 square feet. The distribution center sources our stores in the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico, Guam and Saipan. It is capable of replenishing domestic in-store product levels by style, color and size. Our Topeka distribution center handles substantially all of our replenishments and operates seven days a week, 12 to 24 hours per day. Our remaining domestic distribution needs are handled by a third-party facility in Los Angeles, California. We utilize third-party carriers to ship all products to and from our distribution centers. We also use a third-party distribution facility in Panama to service our stores in the Central and South American Regions. We are currently building a new distribution center model to better service our stores and customers which tend to cluster on the borders and coasts of the U.S. We plan to operate one new distribution center in Redlands, California beginning in the summer of 2007. In addition, we plan to operate a new distribution center east of the Mississippi river (in a location to be determined) which will begin operation around June 2008. In 2008, when both new facilities are open and running to our satisfaction, we will close the Topeka distribution center. Intellectual Property Through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, we own certain copyrights, trademarks, patents and domain names which we use in our business and regard as valuable assets. The trademarks and service marks used in our business include Payless®, Payless ShoeSource®, Payless Kids®, Dyelights(SM), and various logos used on our Payless ShoeSource store signs and in advertising, including our traditional yellow and orange signage and our new orange and blue circle “P” logos. The domain names include Payless.com®, as well as derivatives of Payless ShoeSource. On May 18, 2006, we acquired from Jimlar Corporation the rights to the trademarks American Eagle™ and AE™ for use on footwear and certain accessories, and related domain names. In March, 2007, Payless ShoeSource announced its acquisition of privately held Collective International, LP (“Collective”), a brand development, management and licensing company with a strong youth lifestyle and board sport-inspired brand portfolio including Airwalk®, Vision Street Wear®, Lamar®, Sims®, LTD®, genetic™, Dukes®, Rage®, Ultra-Wheels®, and Skate Attack®. Collective’s focus is on the growing active sport lifestyle market driven predominantly by the skate- and snowboard-inspired trends. The company is strongly positioned with its authentic brand portfolio that has consistently proven its ability to reach both the younger consumer with strong ties to board sports, as well as appeal to the broad range of consumers drawn to this established lifestyle and fashion. The acquisition provides immediate brand leverage for Payless’ core footwear and accessories product lines in the youth lifestyle, athletics and outdoor categories. It also facilitates building broad corporate intellectual property management and brand development capabilities to create a diversified portfolio of brands serving discrete consumer segments across a range of price points, categories, and sales channels. As well, with this acquisition, Payless is establishing a licensing business that will provide growth opportunities across multiple product categories in domestic and international markets to create new revenue streams from wholesaling or licensing to other retailers and third parties. Payless has been a licensee of the Airwalk brand since 2003 and features the brand on a wide range of footwear and accessories. Payless has helped drive Airwalk to be the number two skate footwear brand in America. 8 Table of Contents As of February 3, 2007, in the United States, we have approximately 200 pending registrations and applications for our trademarks and service marks, as well as several common law marks, under which we market private label merchandise in our Payless ShoeSource stores. We also have approximately 1,300 pending registrations and applications for our trademarks in foreign countries. In addition, we have registrations or pending applications for the Payless ShoeSource mark in over 70 foreign registries. Currently, we have agreements in place regarding the following brands: Champion®, which expires on June 30, 2015; Airwalk®, which expires on January 31, 2015; Spalding®, which expires on June 1, 2008; and American Ballet Theatre ™, which expires on January 31, 2010. In 2006, we entered into agreements with Disney Enterprises, Inc. for use of various Disney properties and characters which expires on December 31, 2010, and Exeter Brands Group, LLC, a subsidiary of Nike USA, Inc., for use of the Tailwind® brand on footwear and accessories, which expires on November 19, 2011. We have agreements with Laura Poretzky, Lela Rose and Patricia Field for development, licensing, marketing and distribution of Laura Poretzky’s Abaeté for Payless line, which expires on May 31, 2009; Lela Rose for Payless line, which expires on January 31, 2008, and the Patricia Field for Payless and/or Red Carpet Collection by Patricia Field lines, which expires on January 31, 2008. We also currently have the exclusive right to use the Dunkman® brand. We, through agents, also utilize various character marks from time-to-time. Environment Compliance with federal, state and local statutes, rules, ordinances, laws and other provisions which have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, have not had, and are not expected to have, a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or our competitive position. Payless Direct In the fall of 1999, we launched payless.com to make Payless ShoeSource more accessible to our existing and new customers. In addition to eCommerce sales and on-line marketing, payless.com provides a multi-channel service to our stores by allowing stores to order product from payless.com in the event that shoe is not available in a given store. Our eCommerce strategy is evolving with the overall Payless strategy and brand positioning. Available Information We file or furnish our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with the SEC electronically. Copies of any of these documents will be provided in print to any shareholder who submits a request in writing to Payless ShoeSource, Inc., ATTN Investor Relations, 3231 Southeast Sixth Avenue, Topeka KS 66607 or calls our Investor Relations Department at (785) 559-6966. The public may read or copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Assistance at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549-0313. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. We maintain an investor relations website at www.paylessinfo.com. On our investor relations website, you can access free of charge our reports that are filed with the SEC, the Guidelines for our Board of Directors, and the charters for the Board of Directors, the Audit and Finance Committee and the Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee. In addition, we maintain a website at www.payless.com where our customers can shop at their convenience. This website also provides a link to our investor relations website. No portion of our Web site or the information contained in or connected to the Web site is a part of, or incorporated into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 9 Table of Contents Directors of the Company Listed below are the names and present principal occupations or, if retired, most recent occupations of the Company’s Directors: Name Principal Occupation Management Director Matthew E. Rubel(1*) Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company Independent Directors Howard R. Fricke(1)(2)(3) Retired Chairman of the Board of the Security Benefit Group of Companies Daniel Boggan Jr.(3) Retired Senior Vice President of the National Collegiate Athletic Association Judith K. Hofer (4) Retail Consultant Mylle H. Mangum(1)(4*) Chief Executive Officer of IBT Enterprises, LLC John F. McGovern(1) (3*) Founder and Partner of Aurora Capital LLC and former Executive Vice President/Chief Financial Officer of Georgia-Pacific Corporation Robert F. Moran(3) President and Chief Operating Officer of PetSmart, Inc. Michael E. Murphy(3) Retired Vice Chairman and Chief Administrative Officer of Sara Lee Corporation David Scott Olivet(3) Chief Executive Officer and Director of Oakley, Inc. Michael A. Weiss(4) Retired President and Chief Executive Officer of Express, a subsidiary of Limited Brands, Inc. and non-executive Chairman of Chicos FAS, Inc. Robert C. Wheeler(4) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Hill’s Pet Nutrition, Inc. (1) Executive Committee member (2) Non-Executive Chairman of the Board (3) Audit and Finance Committee member (4) Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee member * Chairman Executive Officers of the Company Listed below are the names and ages of the executive officers of the Company as of April 3, 2007 and offices held by them with the Company. Name Age Position and title Matthew E. Rubel 49 Chief Executive Officer and President Jay A. Lentz 63 Senior Vice President Michael J. Massey 42 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Darrel J. Pavelka 51 Senior Vice President Ullrich E. Porzig 61 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Matthew E. Rubel is 49 years old and has served as Chief Executive Officer and President of Payless since July 18, 2005. Prior to joining Payless, Mr. Rubel was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for Cole Haan from 1999 to July 2005. He served as Executive Vice President, J. Crew Group and Chief Executive Officer of Popular Club Plan from 1994 to 1999, and in November 1998, led the sale of Popular from J. Crew to Fingerhut. While at J. Crew Group, Mr. Rubel was responsible for all licensing and international activities, as well as brand marketing and served on its Group Executive Committee. Mr. Rubel has also served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Pepe Jeans USA, and President of the Specialty Division of Revlon. Mr. Rubel has served as a Director of Payless since July 2005. 10 Table of Contents Jay A. Lentz is 63 years old and has served as Senior Vice President — Human Resources since May 2001. Prior to that he was Vice President of Organization Development from 1992 to 2001; and 1985 to 1990. From 1990 to 1992 he served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources for Payless Cashways Inc. He previously worked for Pizza Hut Inc., a division of PepsiCo, Inc., as Senior Director of Management Development, Arthur Young Co. as Manager, Organization Development Consulting, and The University of Missouri as a consulting psychologist. Michael J. Massey is 42 years old and has served as Senior Vice President — General Counsel and Secretary since March 2004. Prior to that he served as Vice President of International Development during 2001, Vice President of Contract Manufacturing during 2000, Vice President, Group Counsel Intellectual Property from 1998 to 2000, and Senior Counsel from 1996 to 1998. Prior to joining Payless, Mr. Massey was an attorney for The May Department Stores Company from 1990 to 1996. Darrel J. Pavelka is 51 years old and has served as Senior Vice President — Merchandise Distribution, Planning and Supply Chain since September 2004. Prior to that he was Senior Vice President — International Operations from March 2003 to September 2004. He also served as Senior Vice President — Merchandise Distribution from 1999 to 2003, Vice President of Retail Operations for Division R from 1997 to 1999, Vice President of Stores Merchandising from 1995 to 1997, Director of Stores Merchandising from 1990 to 1995, Director of Distribution for Women’s from 1987 to 1990, Manager of Stores Merchandising for Division R from 1983 to 1987, and Manager of the Northeast store expansion from 1980 to 1983. Ullrich E. Porzig is 61 years old and has served as Senior Vice President — Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since February, 1996 and from 1986 to 1988. Between 1993 and 1996, Mr. Porzig was Senior Vice President-Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Petro Stopping Centers L.P. From 1982 to 1993 he was employed by The May Department Stores Company in various capacities including Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Foley’s from 1988 to 1993. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We May be Unable to Compete Effectively in the Competitive Worldwide Footwear Retailing Industry We face a variety of competitive challenges from other domestic and international footwear retailers, including a number of competitors that have substantially greater financial and marketing resources than we do. These competitors include mass-market discount retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., and Target Corp.; department stores such as Sears, Kohl’s Corp. and J.C. Penney Company, Inc.; specialty retailers such as Nine West and Foot Locker; and branded discount stores such as DSW and Shoe Pavilion. We compete with these footwear retailers on the basis of: • developing fashionable, high-quality merchandise in an assortment of sizes, colors and styles that appeals to our target consumers; • anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; • ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain effectiveness; • the pricing of merchandise; • creating an acceptable value proposition for consumers; • providing an inviting, customer friendly shopping environment; • using a customer focused sales staff to provide attentive, product knowledgeable customer service; and • providing strong and effective marketing support. Competition in the retail footwear industry has increased. Mass-market discount retailers such as Wal-Mart aggressively compete with us on the basis of price and have added significant numbers of locations, gaining market share as a result. Accordingly, there is substantial pressure on us to maintain the value proposition of our footwear. In addition, it is possible that mass-market discount retailers will increase their investment in their retail footwear operations, thereby achieving greater market penetration and placing additional competitive pressures on our business. If we are unable to respond effectively to these competitive pressures, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents A Majority of our Operating Expenses are Fixed Costs that are not Dependent Upon our Sales Performance. As a result, Declines in our Operating Performance are Magnified because We are Largely Unable to Reduce Expenses in Response to a Potential Sales Shortfall A majority of our operating expenses are fixed costs that are not dependent on our sales performance, as opposed to variable costs, which increase as sales performance increases. These fixed costs include the leasing costs of our stores, our interest expenses and the majority of our labor expenses. If our sales were to decline, we would be unable to reduce these fixed operating expenses in the short term. Accordingly, the effect of any sales decline is magnified because a larger percentage of our earnings are committed to paying these fixed costs. As a result, our net earnings and cash flow would be disproportionately negatively affected as a result of decline in sales. We May be Unable to Maintain or Increase our Sales Volume and Margins We have a substantial market presence in all 50 states and the District of Columbia and we currently derive approximately 86% of our revenue from our U.S. stores. Because of our substantial market presence, and because the U.S. footwear retailing industry is mature, for us to increase our sales volume on a unit basis and margins in the United States, we must capture market share from our competitors. We have attempted to capture additional market share through a variety of strategies; however, if we are not successful we may be unable to increase or maintain our sales volumes and margins in the United States, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. We Must Provide Consumers with Seasonally Appropriate Merchandise, Making Some of our Sales Dependent on Seasonal Weather Conditions The domestic retail footwear industry is characterized by four high volume seasons: Easter, early summer, back-to-school and winter. During each of these seasons, we increase our inventory levels to support the increased demand for our products, as well as offer styles particularly suited for the relevant season, such as sandals in the early summer season and boots during the winter season. If the weather conditions for a particular season vary significantly from those typical for such season, such as an unusually cold early summer or an unusually warm winter, consumer demand for the seasonally appropriate merchandise that we have available in our stores could be adversely affected and negatively impact net sales and margins. Lower demand for seasonally appropriate merchandise may leave us with an excess inventory of our seasonally appropriate products and/or basic products, forcing us to sell both types of products at significantly discounted prices and adversely affect our net sales margins and operating cash flow. Consequently, our results of operations are highly dependent on relatively predictable weather conditions. We May be Unable to Adjust to Constantly Changing Fashion Trends Our success depends, in large part, upon our ability to gauge the evolving fashion tastes of our consumers and to provide merchandise that satisfies such fashion tastes in a timely manner. The worldwide retailing footwear industry fluctuates according to changing fashion tastes and seasons, and merchandise usually must be ordered well in advance of the season, frequently before consumer fashion tastes are evidenced by consumer purchases. In addition, the cyclical nature of the worldwide footwear retailing industry also requires us to maintain substantial levels of inventory, especially prior to peak selling seasons when we build up our inventory levels. As a result, if we fail to properly gauge the fashion tastes of consumers, or to respond in a timely manner, this failure could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our merchandise and leave us with substantial unsold inventory. If that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which would negatively impact financial results. The Worldwide Footwear Retailing Industry is Heavily Influenced by General Economic Cycles Footwear retailing is a cyclical industry that is heavily dependent upon the overall level of consumer spending. Purchases of footwear and related goods tend to be highly correlated with the cycles of the levels of disposable income of our consumers. As a result, any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions could adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We May be Unsuccessful in Opening New Stores or Relocating Existing Stores to New Locations, Adversely Affecting our Ability to Grow Our growth is largely dependent upon our ability to expand our retail operations by opening and operating new stores, as well as relocating existing stores to new locations, on a profitable basis. In 2006, we opened 169 new Payless ShoeSource stores, of which 106 were relocations. Our ability to open new stores and relocate existing stores to new locations on a timely and profitable basis is subject to various contingencies, some of which are beyond our control. These contingencies include our ability to: • locate suitable store sites; • negotiate acceptable lease terms; • build-out or refurbish sites on a timely and cost effective basis; • hire, train and retain qualified managers and personnel; • obtain adequate capital resources; and • successfully integrate new stores into our existing operations. In addition, the opening of stores outside of the United States is subject to a number of additional contingencies, including compliance with local laws and regulations and cultural issues and, because we operate a number of our international stores under joint ventures, issues may arise in our dealings with our joint venture partners or their compliance with the joint venture agreements. We may be unsuccessful in opening new stores or relocating existing stores for any of these reasons. In addition, we cannot assure you that, even if we are successful in opening new stores or relocating existing stores, those stores will achieve levels of sales and profitability comparable to our existing stores. We Rely on Third Parties to Manufacture and Distribute Our Products We depend on contract manufacturers to manufacture the merchandise that we sell in our stores. If these contract manufacturers are unable to secure sufficient supplies of raw materials, or maintain adequate manufacturing and shipping capacity, they may be unable to provide us with timely delivery of products of acceptable quality. In addition, if the prices charged by these contractors increase for reasons such as increases in the price of raw materials, increases in labor costs or currency fluctuations, our cost of manufacturing would increase, adversely affecting our results of operations. We also depend on third parties to transport and deliver our products. Due to the fact that we do not have any independent transportation or delivery capabilities of our own, if these third parties are unable to transport or deliver our products for any reason, or if they increase the price of their services, including as a result of increases in the cost of fuel, our operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. We require our contract manufacturers to meet our standards in terms of working conditions and other matters before we are willing to contract with them to manufacture our merchandise. As a result, we may not be able to obtain the lowest possible manufacturing costs. In addition, any failure by our contract manufacturers to meet these standards, to adhere to labor or other laws or to diverge from our mandated labor practices, and the potential negative publicity relating to any of these events, could harm our business and reputation. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our contract manufacturers, and any of these manufacturers may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time. There is also substantial competition among footwear retailers for quality manufacturers. To the extent we are unable to secure or maintain relationships with quality manufacturers, our business could be harmed. 13 Table of Contents There are Risks Associated with Our Importation of Products We import finished merchandise into the United States and the other countries in which we operate from the People’s Republic of China and seven other countries. Substantially all of this imported merchandise is subject to: - customs duties and tariffs imposed by the governments of countries into which this merchandise is imported; and - penalties imposed for, or adverse publicity relating to, violations of labor and wage standards by foreign contractors. The United States and countries in which our merchandise is manufactured or imported may from time to time impose additional new quotas, tariffs, duties or other restrictions on our merchandise or adversely change existing restrictions or interpretation regarding the application timing. Any such changes could adversely affect our ability to import, and/or the cost of, our products and the results of operations of our business or interpretations of these items. Manufacturers in China are our major suppliers. China was a direct source of approximately 96% of our merchandise based on cost during 2006. In addition to the products we import directly, a significant amount of the products we purchase from other suppliers has been imported from China. Any deterioration in the trade relationship between the United States and China or any other disruption in our ability to import footwear, accessories, or other products from China could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition to the risks of foreign sourcing stemming from international trade laws, there are also operational risks of relying on such imported merchandise. Our ability to successfully import merchandise derived from foreign sources into the United States is dependent on stable labor conditions in the major ports of the United States. Any instability or deterioration of the domestic labor environment in these ports, such as the work stoppage at West Coast ports in 2002, could result in increased costs, delays or disruption in product deliveries that could cause loss of revenue, damage to customer relationships or materially affect our business. If we are unable to maintain our current Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (“C-TPAT”) status, it would increase the time it takes to get products into our stores. Such delays could materially impact our ability to move the current product in our stores to meet customer demand. Our International Operations are Subject to Political and Economic Risks In 2006, approximately 14% of our sales were generated outside the United States and almost all of our merchandise was manufactured outside the United States. We are accordingly subject to a number of risks relating to doing business internationally, any of which could significantly harm our business, including: • political and economic instability; • exchange controls and currency exchange rates; • foreign tax treaties and policies; and • restrictions on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries. Our financial performance on a U.S. dollar denominated basis is also subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. These fluctuations could cause our results of operations to vary materially. From time to time, we may enter into agreements seeking to reduce the effects of our exposure to currency fluctuations, but these agreements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to currency fluctuations or may not be available at a cost effective price. We May be Unable to Effectively Protect Our Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property Rights Our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and competitive position. If we were to lose or were unable to effectively protect such intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents We are Subject to Liability if We Infringe the Trademarks or Other Intellectual Property Rights of Third Parties We are subject to liability if we infringe the trademarks or other intellectual property rights of third parties. If we were to be found liable for any such infringement, we could be required to pay substantial damages and could be subject to injunctions preventing further infringement. If this were to happen, it could have a substantial adverse effect on our business. See also “Legal Proceedings,” included in this Form 10-K. We Rely on Brands We Do Not Own We are increasing our reliance on brands, some of which we do not own. During the last fiscal year, approximately 23% of our revenues were derived from brands that we did not own. Currently, we have agreements in place regarding the following brands: Champion®, which expires on June 30, 2015; Airwalk®, which expires on January 31, 2015; Spalding®, which expires on June 1, 2008; American Ballet Theatre ™, which expires on January 31, 2010; Tailwind ®, which expires on November 19, 2011; and various Disney properties and characters, which expires on December 31, 2010. We, through our agents, also utilize various character marks from time-to-time. If we are unable to renew or replace any brand or character that accounts for a significant portion of its revenue, our results could be adversely affected. Adverse Occurrences at Our Topeka Distribution Center Could Negatively Impact Our Business We operate a distribution center in Topeka, Kansas, which serves as the main source of replenishment of inventory for our stores. In comparison to our total distribution network, the distribution needs of our stores are heavily dependent on products delivered through our Topeka distribution center. If complications arise with our Topeka distribution center or our Topeka distribution center is severely damaged or destroyed, our other distribution centers may not be able to support the resulting additional distribution demands and we may be unable to locate alternative persons or entities capable of doing so. This may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory to our stores on a timely basis, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Integration Risks of New Distribution Facilities Could Negatively Impact Our Business If we are unable to smoothly transition product flow from one distribution facility in the United States to two facilities in the United States, there could be delays in shipping products to stores. If product arrives late in the selling cycle, we could be forced to mark down or use other promotions to liquidate such inventory which could adversely affect the net sales, margins and operating cash flow. We May Be Unable to Attract and Retain Talented Personnel Our success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified and talented individuals. If we are unable to attract or retain key executives, including senior management, marketing and merchandising personnel, it could adversely affect our business. Prolonged Work Stoppages Could Adversely Affect our Results of Operations At the end of 2006, approximately 600 of our employees, including substantially all of our non-management employees at our Topeka distribution center, are covered by four separate collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2007 and 2009. We cannot assure you that these agreements will be renewed on similar terms or renegotiated on acceptable terms. Any prolonged work stoppages in one or more of our facilities could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Although there have been no work stoppages or disruptions since the inception of these collective bargaining agreements, we cannot assure you that there will be no disruptions in the future. If more of our employees unionize, it could result in demands that may increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our profitability. If any group of our employees were to unionize and we were unable to reach agreement on the terms of their collective bargaining agreement or we were to experience widespread employee dissatisfaction, we could be subject to work slowdowns or stoppages. In addition, we may be subject to disruptions by organized labor groups protesting the non-union 15 Table of Contents status of the majority of our employees. Any of these events would be disruptive to our operations and could harm our business. An Outbreak of Asian Flu or Other Similar Infectious Diseases May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Ability to Purchase Merchandise from Manufacturers and Our Operations Generally An outbreak and spread of infectious diseases such as Asian flu in Southern China and other countries in which our manufacturers are located could impact the availability or timely delivery of merchandise. Although our ability to purchase and import our merchandise has not been negatively impacted to date, an outbreak of infectious diseases could prevent the manufacturers we use from manufacturing our merchandise or hinder our ability to import those goods to the countries in which our stores are located, either of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 