ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities. We will need to raise additional capital, initiate other operational strategies and/or revise our existing obligations to continue our operations. If we are unable to complete the proposed merger and recapitalization in a timely manner or at all, we must significantly increase our revenues, reduce the amount of cash used by our operating activities and generate positive cash flow from our operating activities, or we will need to undertake additional restructuring initiatives to continue our operations. We do not believe we have sufficient capital resources to fund our current operations beyond the second quarter of 2008. We face a number of challenges in operating our business and gaining new customers and maintaining existing ones, including our ability to overcome the going concern opinion issued by our independent registered public accounting firm and viability questions raised by prospective customers given our current capital needs. Additionally, as we approach the June 30, 2008 maturity of the $18.0 million principal amount of our 13.9% Promissory Notes (the 13.9% Notes) we will need to restructure our debt to delay the maturity date or seek additional financing in order to satisfy payment of the 13.9% Notes upon maturity. We will also be required to redeem our outstanding preferred stock in July 2008, which could require us to pay a substantial amount of cash to our holders of preferred stock to the extent permitted by law. As we approach the redemption date, we will need to modify the terms of our preferred stock to delay redemption of our preferred stock beyond their current redemption date in July 2008. The holders of a majority of our outstanding preferred stock are also the holders of a majority of our 13.9% Notes. However, we may be unable to agree on a restructuring of the 13.9% Notes or the Series D preferred stock and Series E preferred stock with the holders of these existing commitments. Moreover, in order to incur additional indebtedness, we must obtain the consent from the holders of two-thirds in principal amount of our outstanding 13.9% Notes and our preferred stockholders. Even if we obtain this consent, we do not believe that financing is available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us. The delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market, our low stock price and the going concern opinion also impair our ability to raise additional capital. If our efforts to significantly increase our revenues are unsuccessful, we will reduce the amount of cash used by our operating activities, liquidate assets, implement restructuring initiatives, which may include the proposed merger and recapitalization, seek the protection of applicable bankruptcy laws or some combination of the foregoing. Certain of our cash resources are not readily available for our operations. We face restrictions on our ability to use cash that we currently hold outside of the United States for purposes other than the operation of each of our respective foreign subsidiaries that hold such cash. For example, our ability to use cash held in a given European subsidiary for any reason other than the operation of that subsidiary may result in certain tax liabilities and are subject to local laws that could prevent the transfer of cash from that subsidiary to any other foreign or domestic account. Additionally, we may experience occasional funding deficits in our domestic operations during the next 12 months. We would fund any such deficit with resources from our international cash balances, however, due to the restrictions we face on our ability to use cash that we currently hold outside of the United States we may not be able to successfully fund any such deficits from our international cash resources. At December 31, 2007, approximately $1.5 million of cash was readily available for our domestic operations and $7.1 million was held outside of the United States. Our inability to utilize cash outside of the United States could slow our ability to operate and grow our business and reach our business objectives or impair our current operations. We may also be forced to incur certain costs, such as tax liabilities, to be able to use this cash for domestic operations, which could cause our expenses to increase and our operating results to decline. Business uncertainties while the proposed merger is pending may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Uncertainty about the proposed merger and its effect on our employees, suppliers and partners may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is consummated, and could create distractions that affect our performance as we prepare for the transactions. Uncertainties relating to the merger could also cause others that deal with us to defer decisions concerning the use of our products or services, or seek to change existing business relationships with us. Employee retention may be particularly challenging while the merger is pending, as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the post-merger entity. 7 Table of Contents Failure to complete the merger and the recapitalization may negatively impact our ongoing business. If the merger is not approved by our shareholders or the merger and the recapitalization are not completed for any other reason, we will remain an independent public company and our common stock will continue to be listed and traded on the OTC Bulletin Board and the 13.9% Notes will remain due on June 30, 2008. If the merger and the recapitalization are not completed, the price of our common stock may decline, particularly to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects a market assumption that the merger and the recapitalization will be completed. In addition, our business may be harmed to the extent that our customers believe that we cannot effectively operate our business without consummating the merger and the recapitalization or there is customer and employee uncertainty surrounding our future direction. We also will be required to pay significant costs incurred in connection with the merger and the recapitalization, including legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, whether or not the merger and the recapitalization are completed. For example, we are required to reimburse CP Holdco, LLC for its transaction expenses up to $750,000 if the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances. As a result of these factors if the merger and the recapitalization were not completed, our business, prospects, results of operations or stock price could be adversely impacted. The debt and significant equity ownership by the General Atlantic Investors and the Cheung Kong Investors may result in potential conflicts of interests, which could adversely affect the holders of our common stock and other investors, delay or cause a change in control and depress our stock price. The debt and significant equity ownership by General Atlantic Partners, 74 L.P., GAP Coninvestment Partners II, L.P., GapStar, LLC and GAPCO GmbH & Co. KG (collectively the “General Atlantic Investors”) and Campina Enterprises Limited, Cenwell Limited, Dragonfield Limited and Lion Cosmos Limited (collectively the “Cheung Kong Investors”) could create conflicts of interest between these majority shareholders and our other shareholders and between the General Atlantic Investors and the Cheung Kong Investors. For example, the General Atlantic Investors and the Cheung Kong Investors may only approve a change in control transaction that results in the payment of their liquidation preference or other terms satisfactory to them even if our other shareholders oppose the transaction, which could depress the price of our common stock or result in a transaction that causes our shareholders to receive consideration for their shares that is less than the price they paid. On December 5, 2007, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, which was subsequently amended on February 19, 2008, with CP Holdco, LLC, or CP Holdco, and CP Merger Co., a wholly-owned subsidiary of CP Holdco, pursuant to which we would merge with and into CP Merger Co. As a result of the merger and related transactions, we will cease to be a publicly-traded company. If the merger is completed, holders of our common stock (other than CP Holdco and shareholders entitled to and who properly exercise dissenters’ rights under California law) will receive $0.102 in cash (subject to adjustments upon any stock split, stock dividend, stock distribution or reclassification of our common stock) plus the contingent litigation recovery right for each share of common stock they own. See Part III, Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information about the proposed merger and recapitalization. CP Holdco is beneficially owned by certain of our existing shareholders, including the General Atlantic Investors and certain of the Cheung Kong Investors. Holders of a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock, Series D preferred stock and Series E preferred stock, including the members of CP Holdco, are parties to a voting agreement, dated December 5, 2007, pursuant to which such parties agreed to vote their shares of capital stock of the Company in favor of the proposed merger and related transactions. Accordingly, the shareholder vote required to approve the proposed merger will be substantially influenced by shareholders with a financial interest in the parties to the proposed transaction. If the transaction is consummated, the holders of outstanding stock may receive in the transaction consideration that is less than the price they paid for their shares. If a competing transaction were to be proposed, it would have to be approved by the Special Committee as a superior proposal and the Company could only terminate the merger agreement if it complies with certain other conditions of the merger agreement, including reimbursing CP Holdco for its transaction-related expenses up to $750,000. It is possible that the risk that the General Atlantic Investors and the Cheung Kong Investors may disagree on approving a significant corporate transaction, for example a change in control transaction, could limit the number of potential partners willing to pursue such a transaction with us or limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for future shares of our common stock. The debt and significant equity ownership by the General Atlantic Investors and the Cheung Kong Investors as well as the widely disseminated ownership of our common stock could delay, cause, or prevent a change of control or depress our stock price. On March 14, 2008, certain of the General Atlantic Investors and certain of the Cheung Kong Investors converted 2.2 million shares of Series D preferred stock into approximately 30.2 million shares of our common stock. As of March 17, 2008, after the conversion of the Series D preferred stock, the General Atlantic Investors beneficially own approximately 30.2% of our outstanding securities (which represents approximately 24.9% of the voting power) and the Cheung Kong Investors beneficially own approximately 15.8% of our outstanding securities (which represents approximately 17.1% of the voting power). As a result, the General Atlantic Investors and the Cheung Kong Investors, although not affiliated, may have the ability, as shareholders acting together, to control the outcome of shareholder votes, including votes concerning the election of a majority of our directors, approval of merger transactions involving us, including the proposed merger, and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets or other business combination transactions, charter and bylaw amendments and other significant corporate actions, which could cause delay or prevent a change in control or depress our stock price. Certain of the General Atlantic Investors and certain of the Cheung Kong Investors also hold a significant portion of our outstanding 13.9% Notes, which require us to obtain their consent before taking certain corporate actions (for example, incurring indebtedness or selling assets) that would not otherwise require the consent of our shareholders. As a result, we may not be able to execute a transaction favored by management or beneficial to our other shareholders if we are notable to obtain their consent. We have a history of losses, expect continuing losses and may never achieve profitability. We have not achieved profitability in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP) in any period and expect to continue to incur net losses in accordance with U.S. GAAP for the foreseeable future. In addition, we intend to continue to spend resources on maintaining and strengthening our business, and this may, in the near term, cause our operating expenses to increase and our operating results to decline. In past quarters, we have spent heavily on technology and infrastructure development. We may continue to spend substantial financial and other resources to further develop and introduce new messaging solutions, and to improve our sales and marketing organizations, strategic relationships and operating infrastructure. We expect that our cost of revenues, sales and marketing expenses, general and administrative expenses, operations, research and customer support expenses and depreciation and amortization expenses could increase in absolute dollars and may increase as a percent of revenues. In future periods, we may also incur significant non-cash charges related to stock-based compensation. If revenues do not correspondingly increase, our operating results could decline. If we continue to incur net losses in future periods, we may not be able to retain employees, or fund investments in capital equipment, sales and marketing programs, and research and development to successfully compete. We also may never obtain sufficient revenues to exceed our cost structure and achieve profitability. In the event we are unable to improve our financial condition, current and future customers may determine not to do business with us which would cause our revenues to further decline. If we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability in the future. Our failure to continue to carefully manage expenses could require us to use substantial resources and cause our operating results to decline. In the past, our management of operational expenses, including the restructurings of our operations, have placed significant strain on managerial, operational and financial resources and contributed to our history of losses. In addition, we may need to improve or replace our existing operational, customer service and financial systems, procedures and controls and incur incremental costs of compliance with legislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to properly manage these systems and procedural transitions or these incremental compliance costs could impair our ability to attract and service customers, and could cause us to incur higher operating costs and delays in the execution of our business plan. If we cannot manage restructuring activities and expenses effectively, our business and operating results could decline. Our $18.0 million in principal amount of 13.9% Notes and a substantial liquidation preference to the holders of our preferred stock could significantly impact the return to common equity holders. In the event of liquidation, dissolution, winding up or change of control of Critical Path, we must repay the principal and accrued interest of the 13.9% Notes and satisfy the liquidation preferences of our outstanding preferred stock. As of March 17, 2008, the aggregate amount of outstanding principal and interest on our 13.9% Notes was $27.6 million. The holders of Series E preferred stock would be entitled to receive $1.50 per share of Series E preferred stock plus all accrued dividends on such shares before any proceeds from a liquidation, dissolution or winding up is paid with respect to any other series or class of our capital stock. Accordingly, at March 17, 2008, the approximately 48.3 million shares of Series E preferred stock outstanding had an aggregate liquidation preference of approximately 8 Table of Contents $87.9 million. The aggregate amount of the preference will increase as the shares of Series E preferred stock accrue dividends based on simple interest at an annual rate of 5 3/4%. After all of the then outstanding shares of Series E preferred stock have received payment of their liquidation preference, the holders of the approximately 1.3 million shares of outstanding Series D preferred stock, as of March 31, 2008, would be entitled to receive the greater of $13.75 per share of Series D preferred stock plus all accrued dividends on such shares (which, as of March 17, 2008, would result in an aggregate liquidation preference of approximately $26.1 million) or $22 per share (which currently would equal a liquidation preference of $28.5 million) before any proceeds from the liquidation, dissolution, winding up or change in control is paid to holders of our common stock. Thus, as of March 17, 2008, the combined liquidation preference of our Series D and Series E preferred stock is $116.4 million. We also would be required to satisfy the liquidation preference of our Series F preferred stock however, as of March 17, 2008, there were no shares of Series F preferred stock outstanding, but there are outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 0.4 million shares of Series F preferred stock. Holders of our common stock will not receive any proceeds from a liquidation, winding up or dissolution, including from a change of control, until after the holders of our 13.9% Notes have been repaid and the liquidation preferences of our preferred stock are paid in full. Consequently, although we would likely be required under applicable law to obtain the separate class approval of the holders of our common stock for a change of control or the sale of all or substantially all of the shares of Critical Path, it is possible that such a transaction could result in all or substantially all of the proceeds of such transaction being distributed to the holders of our 13.9% Notes and our preferred stock. Pursuant to a note exchange agreement, the holders of our 13.9% Notes have agreed to exchange their notes for shares of common stock of the Company following the merger at a per share price equal to the cash merger consideration. The holders of our 13.9% Notes have also agreed that their Series F preferred stock warrants will be cancelled at the effective time of the merger. The transactions contemplated by the note exchange agreement are conditioned upon the consummation of the merger, the filing of the second amended and restated articles of incorporation with the Secretary of State of California and the conversion of all of the outstanding Series D preferred stock and the Series E preferred stock remaining following the reverse stock split of the Series E preferred stock into shares of common stock of the Company following the merger. We will be required to redeem our outstanding preferred stock in July 2008, which could require us to pay a substantial amount of cash to our holders of preferred stock. We will be required to redeem our outstanding shares of our Series D preferred stock, Series E preferred stock and Series F preferred stock, to the extent any Series F preferred stock is outstanding, in July 2008 to the extent that we have cash legally available to pay for the redemption as determined in accordance with applicable law. We anticipate that we will need to modify the terms of our preferred stock to delay redemption of our preferred stock. However, we may be unable to modify these terms or do so on new terms reasonably acceptable to us. The amount we are required to pay for these shares will be equal to the accreted value of the shares at the time of redemption. As of the redemption date in July 2008, the redemption price per share that we will be required to pay will be $20.58 per share of Series D preferred stock, $1.84 per share of Series E preferred stock and $14.00 plus any accrued dividends per share of Series F preferred stock. If no holders of shares of our preferred stock elect to convert their shares into common stock prior to the redemption date, we would be required to pay an aggregate of $116.0 million in order to redeem the outstanding shares of preferred stock in July 2008. If we do not meet specified criteria under applicable law that allows a corporation to use its cash to redeem outstanding shares of capital stock, we will not be allowed to redeem these shares in July 2008. If we are legally unable to redeem all or any portion of our outstanding preferred stock on the redemption date, the redemption cost of these outstanding preferred shares will continue to increase as these shares will continue to accrue dividends until the shares are either converted or redeemed. Any cash payments we are required to make to redeem our outstanding preferred stock could harm our ability to operate and grow our business or reach our business objectives. The conversion of our preferred stock would result in a substantial number of additional shares of common stock outstanding, which could decrease the price of our common stock. Our preferred stock can be converted into common stock at anytime in the discretion of the holder of preferred stock. For example, during the three months ended June 30, 2007, at the request of certain holders of our Series E preferred stock, we converted approximately 465,000 shares of Series E preferred stock into approximately 544,000 shares of common stock. In March 2008, at the request of certain holders of our Series D preferred stock, we converted an aggregate of approximately 2.2 million shares of Series D preferred stock into approximately 30.2 million shares of common stock. As of March 17, 2008, there were approximately 1.3 million shares of Series D preferred stock outstanding, which were convertible into approximately 17.4 million shares of common stock. In addition, we have approximately 48.3 million shares of Series E preferred stock outstanding, which are convertible as of March 17, 2008, at the option of the holders, into approximately 58.6 million shares of common stock. We also have outstanding warrants to purchase 0.4 million shares of Series F preferred stock which, if exercised, would initially be convertible into approximately 3.9 million shares of common stock. Any conversion of our preferred stock into common stock would increase the number of additional shares of common stock that may be sold into the market, which could substantially decrease the price of our common stock. As the preferred stock accrues dividends, the number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion will increase, which may increase the dilution to our holders of common stock and further decrease the price of our common stock. Currently, shares of Series D preferred stock and shares of Series E preferred stock accrue dividends at a rate of 5 3/4% per year. If the maximum amount of dividends accrue on the outstanding shares of Series D preferred stock and Series E preferred stock prior to the automatic call for redemption date, the number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion will increase by approximately 1.4 million shares to approximately 77.4 million shares of common stock. Further, if we are legally unable to redeem the Series E preferred stock and our Series D preferred stock on the redemption date, the value of these preferred shares will continue to accrue dividends and be convertible into an even greater number of shares until such time as they are converted or redeemed. From time to time we engage in discussions with or receive proposals from third parties relating to a potential change of control of Critical Path. We may enter into a transaction that constitutes a change of control of Critical Path. Any such transaction could happen at any time, could be material to our business and could take any number of forms, including, for example, the proposed merger or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets. We will in the future continue to evaluate potential business combinations or strategic transactions which, if consummated, may constitute a change of control and trigger the repayment of outstanding debt and liquidation preference payments described above and result in little or no payment to the holders of our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the OTC Bulletin Board, and thus the liquidity of our common stock is low and our ability to obtain future financing may be further impaired. In November 2005, we were delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market due to noncompliance with Marketplace Rule 4450(b)(4), which requires companies listed to have a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share, and Rule 4450(b)(3), which requires companies listed to maintain a minimum market value of publicly held securities of at least $15 million. Our common stock now trades in the over-the-counter market on the OTC Bulletin Board owned by the Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc., which was established for securities that do not meet the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Market or the Nasdaq Capital Market. The OTC Bulletin Board is generally considered less efficient than the Nasdaq Global Market. Consequently, selling our common stock is likely more difficult because of diminished liquidity in smaller quantities of shares likely being bought and sold, transactions could be delayed, and securities analysts’ and news media coverage of us may be limited. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of common stock. 9 Table of Contents Our listing on the OTC Bulletin Board, and our low stock price, greatly impair our ability to raise additional capital through equity or debt financing, and significantly increase the dilution to our current stockholders caused by any issuance of equity in financing or other transactions. Moreover, even if we were able to raise additional financing, because the price at which we would issue shares in such transactions is generally based on the market price of our common stock, we would need to issue a greater number of shares to raise a given amount of funding. In addition, as our common stock is not listed on a principal national exchange, we are subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. That rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors. Consequently, the rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and affect the ability of holders to sell their shares of our common stock in the secondary market. Moreover, investors may be less interested in purchasing low-priced securities because the brokerage commissions, as a percentage of the total transaction value, tend to be higher for such securities, and some investment funds will not invest in low-priced securities (other than those which focus on small-capitalization companies or low-priced securities). If we are unable to successfully compete in our product market, our ability to retain our customers and attract new customers could decline as would our revenues. Competition for the products we provide and services we offer is intense. Although we are not aware of any one company that directly competes with every one of our products and services, we face a different set of competitors in each of our lines of business. The primary competitors of our messaging solutions include OpenWave Systems Inc., Sun Microsystems’ Sun ONE software division (formerly iPlanet), Microsoft Corporation, Google, Inc., Comverse, Inc., Mirapoint Inc. and the IronPort Systems division of Cisco Systems, Inc., as well as a variety of smaller product suppliers. In the market for mobile email services, we are competing in an emerging market and face new competitors as the market develops. We currently compete with Comverse, Inc., OpenWave Systems, Inc., Seven Networks, Inc. and Oz Communications, Inc. as well as with small, local technology providers such as O3sis IT AG, Consilient, Inexbee and AxisMobile; however, we expect to encounter competition from Microsoft Corporation, Yahoo! Inc. and Google Inc. in the future as they seek to mobilize their existing portal services, as well as increased competition from vertically integrated handset suppliers like Research In Motion, Nokia and Apple. In the identity management market, we compete primarily with Sun Microsystems’ Sun ONE software division (formerly iPlanet), IBM Corporation, Microsoft Corporation, Novell Corporation, Siemens Corporation and Computer Associates, as well as various small identity management application vendors. If our existing customers and other consumers prefer the products and services offered by our competitors over ours, our revenues will decline. Competition continues to increase as current competitor’s increase the sophistication of their offerings, as new participants enter the market and as the market continues to grow, becoming increasingly attractive. Many current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do and may enter into strategic or commercial relationships with larger, more established and better-financed companies. Given our limited capital resources, we may be unable to spend the necessary capital to offer services comparable to our competitors or to improve our product offering to compete effectively. Any delay in the development or introduction of products or services or updates, would also allow additional time for our competitors to improve their service or product offerings, and for new competitors to develop messaging and identity management products and services for our target markets. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any of which could cause our business to suffer. We may be unable to grow our business through effective sales and marketing, which could cause our operating results to decline. Our ability to increase revenues will depend on our ability to successfully recruit, train and retain experienced and effective sales and marketing personnel and for our personnel to achieve results once they are employed with us. Competition for experienced and effective personnel in certain markets is intense and we may not be able to hire and retain personnel with relevant experience. The complexity and implementation of our messaging and identity management infrastructure products and services require highly trained sales and marketing personnel to educate prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our services. Current and prospective customers, in turn, must be able to educate their end-users. Any delays or difficulties encountered in our staffing and training efforts would impair our ability to attract new customers and enhance our relationships with existing customers, and ultimately, grow revenues. This would also adversely impact the timing and extent of our revenues from quarter to quarter and overall or could jeopardize sales altogether. Because we have experienced turnover in our sales force and have fewer resources than many of our competitors, our sales and marketing organizations may not be able to compete successfully against the sales and marketing organizations of our competitors. Moreover, our competitors frequently have larger and more established sales forces calling upon potential enterprise customers with more frequency. In addition, certain of our competitors have longer and closer relationships with the senior management of customers who decide whose technologies and solutions to deploy. If we do not successfully operate and grow our sales and marketing activities, our revenues and operating results could decline and the price of our common stock could continue to decline. We have identified material weaknesses in our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, which, if not remedied effectively, could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock and otherwise seriously harm our business. Management through, in part, the documentation, testing and assessment of our internal control over financial reporting has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting had material weaknesses as of December 31, 2007. However, we take disclosure controls and procedures seriously and have taken certain actions to address those material weaknesses which were identified in connection with the assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our inability to remedy our material weaknesses promptly and effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as impair our ability to meet our quarterly and annual reporting requirements in a timely manner. These effects could in turn adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Prior to the remediation of these material weaknesses, there remains risk that the transitional controls on which we currently rely will fail to be sufficiently effective, which could result in a material misstatement of our financial position or results of operations and require a restatement. In addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, such controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or facilitate the fair presentation of our financial statements or SEC reporting. Failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures could seriously harm our business. We continue to make significant changes in our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the effectiveness of our remediation efforts and of our internal controls is subject to limitations, including the assumptions used in identifying the likelihood of future events and the inability to eliminate misconduct completely. As a result, our remediation efforts to improve our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all improper acts or ensure that all material information will be made known to management in a timely fashion. In addition, because substantial additional costs may be necessary to implement these remedial measures, our limited resources may cause a further delay in the remediation of all of our material weaknesses. The failure or circumvention of our controls, policies and procedures or of our remediation efforts could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to our evolving business strategy and the nature of the markets in which we compete, our future revenues are difficult to predict and our quarterly operating results may fluctuate. 10 Table of Contents We cannot accurately forecast our revenues as a result of our evolving business strategy and the emerging nature of the messaging and directory infrastructure market. Forecasting is further complicated by recent strategic and operational restructurings, and may continue to be complicated by future restructurings. In addition, our reliance on large dollar value transactions, as well as market fluctuations, can complicate our ability to forecast accurately. Our revenues in some past quarters fell and could continue to fall short of expectations if we experience delays or cancellations of even a small number of orders. We often offer volume-based pricing, which may affect our operating margins. A number of factors are likely to cause fluctuations in operating results, including, but not limited to: • the demand for licensed solutions for messaging and identity management products; • our ability to compete effectively with new market participants, particularly with respect to price competition, in the market for mobile email services; • our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel with industry expertise, particularly sales personnel; • our ability to attract and retain customers and maintain customer satisfaction; • the ability to upgrade, develop and maintain our systems and infrastructure and to effectively respond to the rapid technology change of the messaging and identity management infrastructure market; • the budgeting and payment cycles of our customers and potential customers; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of business and infrastructure; • our ability to quickly handle and alleviate technical difficulties or system outages; • the announcement or introduction of new or enhanced services by competitors; • general economic and market conditions and their effect on our operations and the operations of our customers; and • the effect of war, terrorism and any related conflicts or similar events worldwide. In addition to the factors set forth above, our financial results on a U.S. GAAP basis have been and will continue to be impacted by the extent to which we incur non-cash charges associated with stock-based arrangements with employees and non-employees. In particular, during the year ended December 31, 2007, we incurred stock-based compensation expense of approximately $0.3 million primarily relating to the issuance of common stock and the grant of options and warrants to employees and non-employees. Grants of options and warrants also may be dilutive to existing shareholders. Our revenues and operating results have not improved and could decline as a result of the sale of the hosted usenet newsgroup assets or the future elimination of product or service offerings through termination, sale or other disposition. Future decisions to eliminate, revise or limit any other offerings of a product or service would involve other factors that could cause our revenues to decline and our expenses to increase, including the expenditure of capital, the realization of losses, further reductions in our workforce, facility consolidation or the elimination of revenues along with the associated costs. As a result of the foregoing, we do not believe that period-to-period comparisons of operating results are a good indication of future performance. It is likely that operating results in some quarters will be below market expectations. In this event, the price of our common stock is likely to prove volatile or subject to further declines. We have in the past evaluated, and will continue to evaluate in the future, the strategic value of our business operations and, where appropriate, invest further in certain business operations, and reduce investment in or divest other business operations. In the past, we have elected to divest or discontinue certain business operations through termination, sale or other disposition. For example, in January 2006 we sold substantially all of the assets relating to our hosted messaging business which contributed to a decline in our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to the previous year ended December 31, 2005 and most recently in February 2008 we sold the software, customer base, trade names and other elements of goodwill associated with our Supernews usenet hosting business. Furthermore, we may choose to divest certain business operations based on our management’s perception of their strategic value to our business, even if such operations have been profitable historically. Decisions to eliminate or limit certain business operations have involved in the past, and could in the future involve, the expenditure of capital, consumption of management resources, realization of losses, transition and wind-up expenses, further reduction in workforce, facility consolidation and the elimination of revenues along with associated costs, any of which could cause our operating results to decline and may fail to yield the expected benefits. A limited number of customers and markets account for a high and increasing percentage of our revenues and if we lose a major customer, are unable to attract new customers, or the markets which we serve suffer financial difficulties, our revenues could decline. We expect that sales of our products and services to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of our revenue for the foreseeable future. For example, for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 44%, 41% and 35%, respectively, of our total revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we did not have any customers which accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our current customers, and to attract new customers, in our target markets. The loss of one or several major customers, whether through termination of agreements, acquisitions or bankruptcy, could significantly reduce our revenues. Our agreements with our customers typically have terms of one to three years often with automatic one-year renewals and can be terminated without cause upon certain notice periods that vary among our agreements and range from a period of 30 to 120 days notice. The telecommunications industry during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, accounted for approximately 86%, 74% and 32%, respectively, of the revenues from our top ten customers. If the relative financial performance of our customers deteriorates, it will impact our sales cycles and our ability to attract new business. If our customers terminate their agreements for any reason before the end of the contract term, the loss of the customer would reduce our current and future revenues. Also, if we are unable to enter into agreements with new customers and develop business with our existing customers, our business will not grow and we will not generate additional revenues. Our sales cycle is lengthy, and any delays or cancellations in orders in a particular quarter could cause our operating results to be below expectations, which may cause our stock price to decline. Because we sell complex and sophisticated technology, our sales cycle, in particular with respect to our software solutions, can be long and unpredictable, often taking between four to 18 months. Because of the nature of our product and service offerings it can take many months of customer education and product evaluation before a purchase decision is made. Further, and particularly with regard to newer subscription based offerings, the deployment process following customer trials can add several months prior to the generation of revenue. In addition, many factors can influence the decision to purchase our product and service offerings including budgetary constraints and decreases in capital expenditures, quarterly fluctuations in operating results of customers and potential customers, the emerging and evolving nature of the internet-based services and wireless services markets. Furthermore, general global economic conditions, and weakness in global securities markets, continuing recessionary spending levels, and a protracted slowdown in technology spending in particular, have further lengthened and affected our sales cycle. Such factors have led to and could continue to lead to delays and postponements in purchasing decisions and in many cases cancellations of anticipated orders. Any delay or cancellation in sales of our products or services could cause our operating results to be lower than those projected and cause our stock price to decline. We depend on strategic relationships with our customers and others and the loss of such relationships could cause our revenues to decline. 11 Table of Contents We depend on strategic relationships with our customers and others to expand distribution channels and opportunities and to undertake joint marketing efforts. Our ability to increase revenues depends upon aggressively marketing our services through new and existing strategic relationships. We also depend on the ability of our customers to aggressively sell and market our services to their end-users. If we lose any strategic relationships, fail to fully exploit our relationships, or fail to develop new strategic relationships, we could encounter increased difficulty in selling our products and services. We may not be able to respond to the rapid technological change of the messaging industry. The messaging industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in user and customer requirements and preferences, and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing services, proprietary technology and systems obsolete. We must continually develop or introduce and improve the performance, features and reliability of our services, particularly in response to competitive offerings. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new functionality, technology and services that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of prospective customers. We believe that revenue from our Memova applications, for example the Memova Mobile application that we launched in the first quarter of 2005, is an important source of future revenues and we have made significant investments in their development. However, revenues from our Memova Mobile application from initial launch in the first quarter of 2005 to date have been immaterial. If we do not properly identify the feature preferences of prospective customers, or if we fail to deliver email features that meet the standards of these customers, our ability to market our service successfully and to increase revenues could be impaired. The development of proprietary technology and necessary service enhancements entails significant technical and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead-time. We may not be able to keep pace with the latest technological developments. We may also be unable to use new technologies effectively or adapt services to customer requirements or emerging industry standards. We have experienced significant turnover of senior management and our current management team has been together for a limited time, which could slow the growth of our business and cause our operating results to decline. Throughout 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we announced a series of changes in our management that included the departure of senior executives and changes in our board of directors. Most recently in August 2007, one of the members of our board of directors resigned and was replaced with a new director; in June 2007, our chief executive officer resigned from that role but remains as chairman; two of our other executive officers departed in 2006, two of our directors joined us in 2005 and many of the members of our current board of directors and senior executives joined us in 2004. Further, we may continue to make additional changes to our senior management team. If our new management team is unable to accomplish our business objectives, our ability to grow our business and successfully meet operational challenges could be severely impaired. It is possible that this high turnover at our senior management levels may also continue for a variety of reasons. The loss of the services of one or more of our key senior executive officers could also affect our ability to successfully implement our business objectives, which could slow the growth of our business and cause our operating results to decline. For these reasons, our shareholders may lose confidence in our management team and decide to dispose of our common stock, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We may experience difficulty in attracting and retaining key personnel, which may negatively affect our ability to develop new products or services or retain and attract customers. The loss of the services of key personnel may create a negative perception of our business and adversely affect our ability to achieve our business goals. Our success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled sales and marketing, operational, technical and managerial personnel. Competition for these people is intense and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. If we fail to do so, we may be unable to develop new products or services or continue to provide a high level of customer service, which could result in the loss of customers and revenues. In addition, volatility and declines in our stock price may also affect our ability to retain key personnel, all of whom have been granted stock-based incentive compensation. Over the past year we have reduced our work force and eliminated jobs to balance the size of our employee base with anticipated revenue levels. Reductions in our workforce could make it difficult to motivate and retain remaining employees or attract needed new employees, and could also affect our ability to deliver products and solutions in a timely fashion and to provide a high level of customer service and support. We do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel. In addition, we do not maintain key person life insurance on our employees and have no plans to do so. The loss of the services of one or more of our current key personnel could make it difficult to successfully implement our business objectives. If we are not successful in implementing strategic plans for our operations, our expenses may not be offset by our corresponding sales and our financial results could significantly decline. In 2007, we eliminated 14% of our workforce, closed our San Francisco, California headquarters facility and downsized our facility in Toronto, Canada. In 2006, we completed the sale of the assets related to our hosted messaging services, terminated our headquarters’ facility lease, reduced the amount of space for our headquarters facility and entered into a sublease of the same headquarter facilities, and moved our U.S. based accounting operations from our headquarters facility to Dublin, Ireland. In 2005, we restructured the lease for, and relocated, our headquarter facilities. In 2004, we restructured several significant contracts, consolidated certain activities to offices in Toronto, Canada and Dublin, Ireland from higher cost areas such as the San Francisco Bay Area, eliminated approximately 20% of our workforce and reduced the use of third-party contractors. We expect to continue to make determinations about the strategic future of our business and operations, and our ability to execute on such plans effectively could affect our future operations. A failure to execute successfully on such plans and to plan appropriately could cause our expenses to continue to outpace our revenues and our financial condition to significantly decline. We may experience a decrease in market demand due to declines in the global economy. A substantial portion of our business is derived from international sales, and a decline in the global economy could have a more severe impact on our financial results than on the results of some of our competitors. The effects of the sub-prime lending problems in the United States, terrorist attacks, particularly in Europe where we derive a significant portion of our revenue, and other similar events and the war in Iraq could affect demand for goods and services, including digital communications software and services. We currently license many third-party technologies and may need to license further technologies, which could delay and increase the cost of product and service developments, expose us to increased risk of third-party infringement claims, and could cause our business and operating results to suffer. We intend to continue to license certain technologies from third parties and incorporate them into our products and services, including web server technology, virus and anti-spam solutions, storage and encryption technology and billing and customer tracking solutions. The market is evolving and we may need to license additional technologies to remain competitive. We may not be able to license these technologies on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Many of these suppliers are small and may not have the ability to continue to provide us with necessary technologies. To the extent we cannot license needed technologies or solutions, we may have to devote our resources to the development of such technologies, which could delay and increase the cost of product and service developments. We selectively incorporate or distribute with our software solutions third-party software components licensed under so-called “open source” licenses. Some of these licenses contain requirements that the source code to the modifications or derivative works we create using the open source software must be made available under the terms of a particular open source license granting licensees rights in addition to our commercial licenses. Further, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be obligated to make the source code of our proprietary software 12 Table of Contents available to licensees at no charge in order to have continued rights to the open source components. In addition, because technical support is not generally available for most open source software and licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of open source software, there is a potential for added development costs and potentially greater risk of infringement claims than using third-party commercial software. If we are obligated to release our proprietary source code or if a third party claims we have infringed its intellectual property rights by using open source software code, our business and financial performance could suffer. In addition, we may fail to integrate successfully any licensed or hosted technology into our services. These third-party in-licenses may expose us to increased risks, including risks related to the integration of new technology, potential patent and copyright infringement issues, the diversion of resources from the development of proprietary technology, and an inability to generate revenues from new or existing technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. In addition, an inability to obtain or use needed licenses could delay product and service development until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated. Any delays in services or integration problems could hinder our ability to retain and attract customers and cause our business and operating results to suffer. Changes in the regulatory environment for the operation of our business or those of our customers could pose risks. Few laws currently apply directly to activity on the Internet and the messaging business; however, new laws are proposed and other laws made applicable to Internet communications every year. In particular, the operations of our business face risks associated with privacy, confidentiality of user data and communications, consumer protection, taxation, content, copyright, trade secrets, trademarks, antitrust, defamation and other legal issues. In particular, legal concerns with respect to communication of confidential data have affected our financial services and health care customers due to newly enacted federal legislation. The growth of the industry and the proliferation of Internet-based messaging devices and services may prompt further legislative attention to our industry and thus invite more regulatory control of our business. The imposition of more stringent protections or new regulations and application of laws to our business could burden our company and those with which we do business. Any decreased generalized demand for our services or the loss of, or decrease, in business by a key partner due to regulation or the expense of compliance with any regulation, could either increase the costs associated with our business or affect revenue, either of which could cause our financial condition or operating results to decline. Certain of our service offerings include operations subject to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 and the European Union’s recent privacy directives. Our efforts to remain in compliance with DMCA and the EU privacy and data directives may not be sufficient. New legislation and case law may also affect our products and services and the manner in which we offer them, which could cause our revenues to decline. In addition, the applicability of laws and regulations directly applicable to the businesses of our customers, particularly customers in the fields of banking and health care, will continue to affect us. The security of information about our customers’ end-users continues to be an area where a variety of laws and regulations with respect to privacy and confidentiality are enacted. As our customers implement the protections and prohibitions with respect to the transmission of end user data, our customers will look to us to assist them in remaining in compliance with this evolving area of regulation. In particular, in the United States, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act contains restrictions with respect to the use and protection of banking records for end-users whose information may pass through our system and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act contains provisions that require our customers to ensure the confidentiality of their customers’ health care information. In Europe, the EU Directive on Data Protection and laws implementing it enacted by the European member states place restrictions on the collection, use and transfer of any personal data of EU residents. Finally, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We continue to review all of our accounting policies and practices, legal disclosure and corporate governance policies under the new legislation, including those related to our relationships with our independent registered public accounting firm, enhanced financial disclosures, internal controls, board and board committee practices, corporate responsibility and loan practices, and intend fully to continue to comply with such laws. We expect these rules and regulations will increase our general and administrative expenses and to make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our various committees of the Board including, in particular, the audit committee. We may have liability for Internet content and we may not have adequate liability insurance. Through February 2008, we provided usenet newsgroup hosting and as such, we face potential liability for defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials transmitted via our services. We do not screen the content generated by our users or their customers, and we could be exposed to liability with respect to this content. Furthermore, some foreign governments, such as Germany, have enforced laws and regulations related to content distributed over the Internet that are more strict than those currently in place in the United States. In some instances, we may be subject to criminal liability in connection with Internet content transmission. Our current insurance may not cover claims of these types or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. There is a risk that a single claim or multiple claims, if successfully asserted against us, could exceed the total of our coverage limits. There also is a risk that a single claim or multiple claims asserted against us may not qualify for coverage under our insurance policies as a result of coverage exclusions that are contained within these policies. Should either of these risks occur, capital contributed by our shareholders might need to be used to settle claims. Any imposition of liability, particularly liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage could result in substantial out-of-pocket costs to us, or could result in the imposition of criminal penalties. Unknown software defects could disrupt our services and harm our business and reputation. Our software products are inherently complex. Additionally, our product and service offerings depend on complex software, both internally developed and licensed from third parties. Complex software often contains defects or errors in translation, particularly when first introduced or when new versions are released or localized for international markets. We may not discover software defects in our products or that affect new or current services or enhancements until after they are deployed. Despite testing, it is possible that defects may occur in the software. These defects could cause service interruptions, which could damage our reputation or increase service costs, cause us to lose revenue, delay market acceptance or divert development resources. If our system security is breached, our reputation could suffer and our revenues could decline. A fundamental requirement for online communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Third parties may attempt to breach our security or that of our customers. If these attempts are successful, customers’ confidential information, including customers’ profiles, passwords, financial account information, credit card numbers or other personal information could be breached. We may be liable to our customers for any breach in security and a breach could harm our reputation. We rely on encryption technology licensed from third parties. Our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to license encryption technology and additional technologies to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breach. Failure to prevent security breaches may make it difficult to retain and attract customers and cause us to spend additional resources that could cause our operating results to decline. 13 Table of Contents We rely on trademark, copyright, trade secret laws, contractual restrictions and patents to protect our proprietary rights, and if these rights are not sufficiently protected, our ability to compete and generate revenue could be harmed. We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, and patents to establish and protect our proprietary rights, which we view as critical to our success. Our ability to compete and grow our business could suffer if these rights are not adequately protected. Despite the precautionary measures we take, unauthorized third parties may infringe or copy portions of our services or reverse engineer or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary, which could harm our competitive position and market share. In addition, we have a number of patents issued and several patents pending in the United States and may seek additional patents in the future. However, the status of United States patent protection in the software industry is not well defined and will evolve as the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office grants additional patents and the federal courts issue further rulings on patentability. We do not know if our patent applications or any of our future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought, if at all, or whether any patents we have received or will receive will be challenged or invalidated. Our proprietary rights may not be adequately protected because: • laws and contractual restrictions may not prevent misappropriation of our technologies or deter others from developing similar technologies; • policing unauthorized use of our products and trademarks is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the extent of this unauthorized use; and • end user license provisions in our contracts that protect us against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of the licensed program may be unenforceable. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Our means of protecting proprietary rights in the United States or abroad may not be adequate and competitors may independently develop similar technology. Additionally, we cannot be certain that our products do not infringe issued patents that may relate to our products. In addition, because patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed at filing and in some cases until the patent is issued, applications may have been filed which relate to our software products. If we do not successfully address the risks inherent in the conduct of our international operations, our revenues and financial results could decline. We derived 82%, 77% and 74% of our revenues from international sales in the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our corporate headquarters are located in Dublin, Ireland. We intend to continue to operate in international markets and to spend significant financial and managerial resources to do so. If revenues from international operations do not exceed the expense of establishing and maintaining these operations, our business and our ability to increase revenue and improve our operating results could suffer. We have limited experience in international operations and may not be able to compete or operate effectively in international markets. We face certain risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including: • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and imposition of currency exchange controls; • differing technology standards and language and translation issues; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • changes in regulatory requirements, including U.S. export restrictions on encryption technologies; • political and economic instability; • potential adverse tax consequences; and • significantly reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. Any of these factors could harm our international operations and, consequently, our business and consolidated operating results. Specifically, failure to successfully manage international growth could result in higher operating costs than anticipated or could delay or preclude altogether our ability to generate revenues in key international markets. The use of our net operating losses (NOLs) could be limited if an ownership change occurred during the preceding three-year period. The use of our net operating losses could be limited if an “ownership change” is deemed to have occurred during the preceding three-year period as a result of, for example, the issuance of Series E preferred stock upon conversion of the 10% Notes, the amendment to the terms of the Series D preferred stock or the exercise of the subscription rights. In general, under applicable federal income tax rules, an “ownership change” is considered to have occurred if the percentage of the value of our stock owned by our “5% shareholders” increased by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the value of our stock owned by such shareholders over the preceding three-year period. Due to the fact that a full valuation allowance has been provided for the net deferred tax asset relating to our net operating losses, we have never analyzed whether events such as the issuance of Series E preferred stock upon conversion of the 10% notes, the amendment to the terms of the Series D preferred stock or the exercise of the subscription rights in the rights offering caused us to undergo an ownership change for federal income tax purposes. If such an ownership change were considered to have occurred, our use of our pre-change net operating losses would generally be limited annually to the product of the long-term tax-exempt rate as of the time the ownership change occurred and the value of our company immediately before the ownership change. The long-term tax-exempt rate as of December 2007 was 4.49%. This could increase our federal income tax liability if we generate taxable income in the future. There can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service would not be able to successfully assert that we have undergone one or more ownership changes in the preceding three-year period. Changes in accounting rules for employee stock options could significantly impact our financial results. Accounting policies affecting many aspects of our business, including rules relating to employee stock option grants, have recently been revised or are under review. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and other agencies have finalized changes to U.S. GAAP that require us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. We may have significant and ongoing accounting charges resulting from option grant and other equity incentive expensing that could significantly harm our net results. In addition, since we historically have used equity-related compensation as a component of our total employee compensation program, the accounting change could make the use of equity-related compensation less attractive to us and therefore make it more difficult to attract and retain employees. 14 Table of Contents Our stock price has demonstrated volatility and overall declines during recent quarters and continued volatility in the stock market may cause further fluctuations and/or decline in our stock price. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to experience volatility, wide fluctuations and declines. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2007, the closing sale prices of our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board ranged from $0.11 per share on January 3, 2007 to $0.08 per share on December 31, 2007. Our stock price may further decline or fluctuate in response to any number of factors and events, such as a reduction in the liquidity of our common stock as a result of moving from the Nasdaq Global Market to the OTC Bulletin Board, announcements related to technological innovations, intense regulatory scrutiny and new corporate and securities and other legislation, strategic and sales relationships, new product and service offerings by us or our competitors, litigation outcomes, changes in senior management, changes in financial estimates and recommendations of securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable, news reports relating to trends in our markets and the market for our stock, media interest in accounting scandals and corporate governance questions, overall market conditions and domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. In addition, the stock market in general, particularly with respect to technology stocks, has experienced extreme volatility and a significant cumulative decline in recent quarters. This volatility and decline has affected many companies, including our company, irrespective of the specific operating performance of such companies. These broad market influences and fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance or other factors. A decline in our stock price could result in securities class action litigation against us that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. We have been in the past and may in the future be subject to shareholder lawsuits, including securities class action lawsuits. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company after periods of volatility in the market price of securities. In the future, we may be a target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, which in turn could harm our ability to execute our business plan. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Some of these provisions: • authorize the issuance of preferred stock that can be created and issued by our board of directors without prior shareholder approval, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock; • prohibit shareholder action by written consent; and • establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at a meeting. In March 2001, we adopted a shareholder rights plan or “poison pill.” This plan could cause the acquisition of our company by a party not approved by our board of directors to be prohibitively expensive. In addition, the General Atlantic Investors and the Cheung Kong Investors own a sufficient amount of our securities to be able to control the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, which could have the effect of discouraging or impeding an acquisition proposal. Limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may cause us to use our capital resources, which could cause our financial results to decline or slow our growth. Our current director and officer liability insurance may not be adequate for the liabilities and expenses potentially incurred in connection with future claims. To the extent liabilities, expenses or settlements exceed the limitations or are outside of the scope of coverage, our business and financial condition could materially decline. Under California law, in connection with our charter documents and indemnification agreements we entered into with our executive officers and directors, we must indemnify our current and former officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by law. The indemnification covers any expenses and liabilities reasonably incurred in connection with the investigation, defense, settlement or appeal of legal proceedings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 