ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us. You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this Risk Factors section and elsewhere in this Annual Report could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Commodity prices fluctuate widely, and low prices could adversely affect our ability to borrow under and comply with our debt agreements and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenue, profitability, and future growth depend in part on prevailing commodity prices. These prices also affect the amount of cash flow available to service our debt, fund our capital program and our other liquidity needs, as well as our ability to borrow, raise additional capital and comply with the terms of our various debt agreements. Among other things, the amount we can borrow under our Combined Credit Agreements is subject to periodic redetermination based in part on expected future prices. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of natural gas, NGLs and oil that we can economically produce. Prices for our production fluctuate widely, particularly as evidenced by price movements between 2008 and 2011. Among the factors that can cause these fluctuations are: Ÿ domestic and foreign demand for oil and natural gas; Ÿ the level and locations of domestic and foreign oil and natural gas supplies; Ÿ the quality, price and availability of alternative fuels; Ÿ the quantity of natural gas in storage; Ÿ weather conditions; Ÿ domestic and foreign governmental regulations, including environmental and climate change requirements; Ÿ impact of trade organizations, such as the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC; Ÿ political conditions in oil and natural gas producing regions; Ÿ localized supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability; Ÿ technological advances affecting energy consumption; Ÿ speculation by investors in oil and natural gas; and Ÿ worldwide economic conditions. Due to the volatility of commodity prices and the inability to control the factors that influence them, we cannot predict future pricing levels. If the prices we receive for our production decrease, our exploration and development efforts are unsuccessful or our costs increase substantially, we may be required to recognize non-cash impairment of our oil and gas properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We employ the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas properties which, among other things, imposes limits to the capitalized cost of our assets. The capitalized cost pool cannot exceed the net present value of the underlying oil and gas reserves. We recognized impairment to the carrying value of our oil and gas properties in 2011, 2010 and 2009 of $49.1 million, $19.4 million and $979.5 million, respectively, and could recognize future impairments if the commodity prices utilized in determining proved reserve value cause the value of our proved reserves to decrease. Increased operating and capitalized costs without incremental increases in proved reserve value could also trigger impairment based upon decreased value of our proved reserves. The impairment of our oil and gas properties will cause us to reduce their carrying value and recognize non-cash expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Our proved reserve and production estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate and any material inaccuracies in these estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our proved reserves and our forecasted production. The process of estimating proved reserves and production is complex. In order to prepare these estimates, we and our independent reserve engineers must project future production rates and the timing and amount of future development expenditures and such projections may be inaccurate. We and the engineers must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. In addition to interpreting available technical data, we and the engineers must also analyze other various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of proved reserves presented in our filings with the SEC. Actual future production, commodity prices, revenue, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and our estimated quantities of recoverable proved reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of proved reserves and the estimated production presented in our filings with the SEC. In addition, we may adjust estimates of production and estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing petroleum prices and other factors that may be beyond our control. At December 31, 2011, 31% of our proved reserves were undeveloped. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires additional capital expenditures and successful drilling and completion operations. Our proved reserve estimates assume that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop our proved reserves. Although we have prepared estimates of our proved reserves using SEC specifications, actual prices and costs may vary from these estimates, the development may not occur as scheduled or actual results of that development may not be as estimated prior to drilling. The present value of future net cash flows disclosed in Item 8 of this Annual Report is not necessarily the fair value of our proved reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves for 2011 are based upon prices determined on an unweighted average of the preceding 12-month first-day-of-the-month prices adjusted for local differentials and operating and development costs as of period end. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs used in our estimate. Any changes in consumption by natural gas, NGL and oil purchasers or in governmental regulations or taxation will also affect actual future net cash flows. The timing of both the production and the costs from the development and production of our oil and gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves and their present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is specified by the SEC, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor. The effective interest rate at various times and the risks associated with our business or the oil and gas industry in general will affect the appropriateness of the 10% discount factor in arriving at the actual fair value of our proved reserves. All of our producing properties and operations are located in a small number of geographic areas, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in limited geographic areas. Our Barnett Shale Asset and Horseshoe Canyon Asset account for 82% and 14% of our 2011 production, respectively. As a result, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production from these wells caused by transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production, availability of equipment, facilities, personnel or services, significant governmental regulation, natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, plant closures for scheduled maintenance or interruption of transportation of oil or gas produced from the wells in these areas. In addition, the effect of fluctuations on supply and demand may become more pronounced within specific geographic oil and gas producing areas, which may cause these conditions to occur with greater frequency or magnify the effect of these conditions. Due to the concentrated nature of our properties, a number of our properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more diversified portfolio of properties. Such delays or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Our Canadian operations present unique risks and uncertainties, different from or in addition to those we face in our U.S. operations. In addition to the various risks associated with our U.S. operations, risks associated with our operations in Canada, where we have substantial operations, include, among other things, risks related to increases in taxes and governmental royalties, aboriginal claims, changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies, currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations and compliance with U.S. and Canadian laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. For example, in addition to federal regulation, each province has legislation and regulations which govern land tenure, royalties, production rates and other matters. The royalty regime is a significant factor in the profitability of oil and gas production. Royalties payable on production from lands other than Crown lands are determined by negotiations between the mineral owner and the lessee. Crown royalties are determined by government regulation and are generally calculated as a percentage of the value of the gross production, and the rate of royalties payable generally depends in part on prescribed reference prices, well productivity, geographical location, field discovery date and the type or quality of the petroleum product produced. Laws and policies of the U.S. affecting foreign trade and taxation may also adversely affect our Canadian operations. In addition, the level of activity in the Canadian oil and gas industry is influenced by seasonal weather patterns. Wet weather and spring thaw may make the ground unstable. Consequently, municipalities and provincial transportation departments enforce road bans that restrict the movement of rigs and other heavy equipment, thereby reducing our activity levels. Also, certain of our oil and gas producing areas are located in areas that are inaccessible other than during the winter months because the ground surrounding the sites in these areas consists of swampy terrain. Therefore, seasonal factors and unexpected weather patterns may lead to declines in exploration and production activity. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, our ability to replace our reserves or to maintain current production levels may be limited. Historically, we have used our cash flow from operations, borrowings under our credit facilities and issuances of debt to fund our capital program, working capital needs and acquisitions. Our capital program may require additional financing above the level of cash generated by our operations to fund our growth. If our cash flow from operations decreases as a result of lower commodity prices or otherwise, our ability to expend the capital necessary to replace our reserves or to maintain current production may be limited, resulting in decreased production over time. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to satisfy our financing needs, we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings, including the sale of equity interests in a master limited partnership, may be limited by our financial condition or general economic conditions at the time of any such financing or offering. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If additional capital resources are unavailable, we may curtail our activities or be forced to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks. Our operations are subject to many risks inherent in the oil and gas industry, including operating hazards such as well blowouts, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, treatment plant “downtime,” pipeline ruptures or spills, pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks, any of which could cause us to experience substantial losses. The occurrence of a significant accident or other event could curtail our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Liabilities and expenses not covered by our insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of operating hazards, regulatory risks and other uninsured risks, we could incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of such risks and losses in accordance with customary industry practice. We are not insured against all incidents, claims or 24 Table of Contents damages that might occur, and pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Any significant accident or event that is not adequately insured could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be unable to economically obtain or maintain the insurance that we desire, or may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only at reduced coverage levels. Any type of catastrophic event that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure to replace our proved reserves could adversely affect our production and cash flows. Producing oil and gas reservoirs are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our production decline rates may be significantly higher than currently estimated if our wells do not produce as expected. Further, our decline rate may change when we drill additional wells or make acquisitions. Our proved reserves will generally decline as proved reserves are produced, except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration or development activities or acquire additional proved reserves. In order to maintain or increase proved reserves and production, we must continue our development drilling or undertake other replacement activities. Our planned exploration and development projects or any acquisition activities that we may undertake might not result in meaningful additional proved reserves, and we might not have continuing success drilling productive wells. Even in the event that our exploration and development projects do result in meaningful additional commercially viable proved reserves, midstream infrastructure for these proved reserves may not exist or may not be constructed, either of which could adversely impact our ability to benefit from those proved reserves. If our exploration and development efforts are unsuccessful, our leases covering acreage that is not already held by production could expire. If they do expire and if we are unable to renew the leases on acceptable terms, we will lose the right to conduct drilling activities and the resulting economic benefits associated therewith. If we are unable to develop or acquire additional proved reserves to replace our current and future production at economically acceptable terms, our business, financial condition, results of operations would be adversely affected. We cannot control the operations of gas gathering, processing, liquids fractionation and transportation facilities we do not own or operate. We deliver our production to market through gathering, fractionation and transportation systems that we do not own. The marketability of our production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems owned by third parties. A portion of our production could be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous reasons, including as a result of weather conditions, accidents, loss of pipeline or gathering system access, field labor issues or strikes, maintenance of third-party facilities or capital constraints that limit the ability of third parties to construct gathering systems, processing facilities or interstate pipelines to transport our production. Disruption of our production could negatively impact our ability to market, fractionate and deliver our production. Since we do not own or operate these assets, their continuing operation is not within our control. If any of these pipelines and other facilities becomes unavailable or capacity constrained, or if further planned development of such assets is delayed or abandoned, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition in our industry is intense, and we are smaller and have a more limited operating history than many of our competitors. We compete with major and independent oil and gas companies for property acquisitions and for the equipment and labor required to develop and operate our properties. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do, and they may be better able to absorb the burden of drilling and infrastructure costs and any changes in federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, there is substantial competition for investment capital in the oil and gas industry. These competitors may be able to pay more for properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than we can. Our ability to 25 Table of Contents explore for oil and gas prospects and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend upon our ability to conduct operations, to evaluate and select suitable properties and to complete transactions in this highly competitive environment. Furthermore, the oil and gas industry competes with other industries in supplying the energy and fuel needs of industrial, commercial and other consumers. Our inability to compete effectively with other oil and gas companies could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. Our hedging policy may not effectively mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on our cash flows, and our hedging activities could result in losses or limit our ability to benefit from price increases. To reduce our exposure to hydrocarbon price fluctuations, we have entered and intend to continue to enter into commodity derivatives covering our future production, which may limit the benefit we would receive from increases in hydrocarbon prices. These arrangements also expose us to risk of financial losses in some circumstances, including the following: Ÿ our production could be materially less than expected; or Ÿ the counterparties to the contracts could fail to perform their contractual obligations. If our actual production and sales for any period are less than the production covered by commodity derivatives (including reduced production due to operational delays) or if we are unable to perform our exploration and development activities as planned, we might be required to satisfy a portion of our obligations under those commodity derivatives without the benefit of the cash flow from the sale of that production, which may materially impact our liquidity. Additionally, if market prices for our production exceed collar ceilings or swap prices, we would be required to make monthly cash payments, which could materially adversely affect our liquidity. If we choose not to enter into such commodity derivatives in the future, we could be more affected by changes in commodity prices than our competitors who engage in hedging arrangements. Delays in obtaining oil field equipment and increases in drilling and other service costs could adversely affect our ability to pursue our drilling program. As commodity prices increase, demand and costs for drilling equipment, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services can increase significantly. We cannot be certain that in a higher petroleum price environment we would be able to obtain necessary drilling equipment and supplies in a timely manner, on satisfactory terms or at all, and we could experience difficulty in obtaining, or material increases in the cost of, drilling equipment, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. In addition, drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of unexpected drilling conditions, including urban drilling, and possible title issues. As a result of increased activity levels, we have seen increases and supply limitations for the services we procure. Any such shortages or delays and price increases could adversely affect our ability to execute our drilling program. Our activities are regulated by complex laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to various U.S. and Canadian federal, state, provincial and local government laws and regulations that could change in response to economic or political conditions. Matters that are typically regulated include: Ÿ discharge permits for drilling operations; Ÿ water obtained for drilling purposes; Ÿ drilling permits and bonds; Ÿ reports concerning operations; Ÿ spacing of wells; Ÿ disposal wells; Ÿ unitization and pooling of properties; and Ÿ taxation. 26 Table of Contents From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of natural gas and oil wells below actual production capacity to conserve supplies of natural gas and oil. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, laws, regulations and tax requirements frequently are changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We cannot assure you that existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations, will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to environmental laws, regulations and permits, including greenhouse gas requirements, which may expose us to significant costs, liabilities and obligations. We are subject to stringent and complex U.S. and Canadian federal, state, provincial and local environmental laws, regulations and permits relating to, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use, disposal, gathering, transmission and remediation of natural gas, NGLs, oil and other hazardous materials; the emission and discharge of such materials to the ground, air and water; wildlife, habitat, water and wetlands protection; the storage, use, treatment and disposal of water, including process water; the placement, operation and reclamation of wells; and the health and safety of our employees. These requirements may impose operational restrictions and remediation obligations. In particular, many of these requirements are intended to help preserve water resources and regulate those aspects of our operations that could potentially impact surface water or groundwater. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in our being subject to litigation, fines or other sanctions, including the revocation of permits and suspension of operations, and could otherwise delay or impede the issuance or renewal of permits. We expect to continue to incur significant capital and other compliance costs related to such requirements. We could be subject to joint and several strict liability for any environmental contamination at our currently or formerly owned, leased or operated properties or third-party waste disposal sites. In addition to potentially significant investigation and remediation costs, such matters can give rise to claims from governmental authorities and other third parties for fines or penalties, natural resource damages, personal injury and property damage. These laws, regulations and permits, and the enforcement and interpretation thereof, change frequently and generally have become more stringent over time. For example, federal and state regulators are becoming increasingly focused on air emissions from our industry, including volatile organic compound emissions, which increased scrutiny could lead to heightened enforcement of existing regulations as well as the imposition of new air emission measures. With respect to GHG emissions, we are currently required to report annual GHG emissions from certain of our operations, and additional GHG emission related requirements have been implemented or are in various stages of development. Any current or future GHG or other air emission requirements could curtail our operations or otherwise result in operational delays, liabilities and increased compliance costs. In addition, to the extent climate change results in more severe weather, our or our customers’ operations may be disrupted, which could curtail our exploration and production activity, increase operating costs and reduce product demand. Our costs, liabilities and obligations relating to environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. Our hydraulic fracturing operations are subject to laws and regulations that could expose us to increased costs and additional operating restrictions and delays, and adversely affect production. We rely and expect to continue to rely upon hydraulic fracturing. Various federal, state, provincial and local initiatives have been implemented or are under development to regulate or further investigate the environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing. In particular, the EPA has commenced a study to determine the environmental and health impacts of hydraulic fracturing and announced that it will propose standards for the treatment or disposal of wastewater from certain gas production operations. In July 2011, the EPA also proposed new air standards that would require measures to reduce volatile organic compound emissions at new hydraulically fractured natural gas wells and existing wells that are re-fractured. In addition, certain municipalities and states in which we operate, including Colorado, Montana, Texas and Wyoming, have adopted, or are considering adopting, regulations that have imposed, or could impose, more stringent permitting, transparency, disposal and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. For example, in December 2011, the Railroad 27 Table of Contents Commission of Texas and the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission finalized regulations requiring public disclosure of chemicals in fluids used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Similar regulations exist in British Columbia. Local ordinances or other regulations also may regulate or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and hydraulic fracturing in particular. Such laws and regulations may result in increased scrutiny or third-party claims, or otherwise result in operational delays, liabilities and increased costs. Hydraulic fracturing requires significant quantities of water. Recently, Texas has been experiencing a drought. Any diminished access to water for use in hydraulic fracturing in Texas or other locations in which we operate, whether due to usage restrictions or drought or other weather conditions, could curtail our operations or otherwise result in operations delays or increased costs. Any current or future federal, state, provincial or local hydraulic fracturing requirements applicable to our operations, or diminished access to water for use in hydraulic fracturing, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The risks associated with our debt could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and could cause our securityholders to experience a partial or total loss of their investment in us. Subject to the limits contained in our various debt agreements, we may incur additional debt. Our ability to incur additional debt and to comply with the terms of our debt agreements is affected by a variety of factors, including commodity prices and their effects on our proved reserves, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we expect our ability to borrow under our Combined Credit Agreements will depend on our borrowing base, which will be redetermined at least twice each year based on our reserve reports and such other information deemed appropriate by the administrative agent in a manner consistent with its normal oil and gas lending criteria as it exists at the time of the redetermination. If we incur additional debt or fail to increase the quantity and value of our proved reserves, the risks that we expect to face as a result of our indebtedness could intensify. We have demands on our cash resources, including operating expense, funding of our capital expenditures and the interest expense we expect to have on our outstanding debt. Our level of debt, the value of our oil and gas properties and other assets, the demands on our cash resources, and the provisions of our outstanding debt could have important effects on our business and on the value of our securities. For example, the provisions of our outstanding debt could: Ÿ make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; Ÿ require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; Ÿ require us to make principal payments if the quantity and value of our proved reserves are insufficient to support our level of borrowings; Ÿ limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the oil and gas industry; Ÿ place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may have lower debt service obligations and greater financing flexibility than we do; Ÿ limit our financial flexibility, including our ability to borrow additional funds; Ÿ increase our interest expense on our variable rate borrowings if interest rates increase; Ÿ limit our ability to make capital expenditures to develop our properties; Ÿ increase our vulnerability to exchange risk associated with Canadian dollar denominated indebtedness; Ÿ increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and Ÿ result in a default or event of default under our outstanding debt, which, if not cured or waived, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, to otherwise comply with the provisions of our outstanding debt and to refinance our debt may be affected by economic and capital markets conditions and other factors that may be beyond our control. If we are unable to service our debt and fund our other liquidity needs, we will be forced to adopt alternative strategies that may include: Ÿ reducing or delaying capital expenditures; Ÿ seeking additional debt financing or equity capital; Ÿ selling assets; Ÿ restructuring or refinancing debt; or Ÿ reorganizing our capital structure. 28 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we would be able to implement any of these strategies on satisfactory terms, if at all, and our inability to do so could cause our securityholders to experience a partial or total loss of their investment in us. The provisions of our debt agreements and the risks associated with our debt could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our debt agreements restrict our ability to, among other things: Ÿ incur additional debt; Ÿ pay dividends on, or redeem or repurchase capital stock; Ÿ make certain investments; Ÿ incur or permit certain liens to exist; Ÿ enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; Ÿ merge, consolidate or amalgamate with another company; Ÿ transfer or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; and Ÿ redeem subordinated debt. Our debt agreements, among other things, require the maintenance of financial covenants that are more fully described in Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements found in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other provisions of our debt agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to comply with all aspects of our debt agreements in the future. In addition, our ability to borrow under our Combined Credit Agreements is dependent upon the quantity and value of our proved reserves and other assets. The provisions of our debt agreements may affect the manner in which we obtain future financing, pursue attractive business opportunities and plan for and react to changes in business conditions. In addition, failure to comply with the provisions of our debt agreements could result in an event of default which could enable the applicable creditors to declare the outstanding principal and accrued interest to be immediately due and payable. Moreover, any of our debt agreements that contain a cross-default or cross-acceleration provision could also be subject to acceleration. If we were unable to repay the accelerated amounts, the creditors could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such debt. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, we may have insufficient assets to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our securities could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. Parties with whom we do business may become unable or unwilling to timely perform their obligations to us. We enter into contracts and transactions with various third parties, including contractors, suppliers, customers, lenders and counterparties to hedging arrangements, under which such third parties incur performance or payment obligations to us. Any delay or failure on the part of one or more of such third parties to perform their obligations to us could, depending upon the nature and magnitude of such failure or failures, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The operations of the third parties on whom we rely for gathering and transportation services are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations that require obtaining and maintaining numerous permits, approvals and certifications from various federal, state, provincial and local government authorities. These third parties may incur substantial costs in order to comply with existing laws and regulations. If existing laws and regulations governing such third-party services are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to their operations, these changes may affect the costs that we pay for such services. Similarly, a failure to comply with such laws and regulations by the third parties on whom we rely could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have substantial financial and other commitments related to our development of a gathering, processing and transportation system for Horn River. We have agreed to provide NOVA Gas Transmission Ltd. (“NGTL”) with letters of credit to cover its costs to construct a pipeline and meter station (the “project”) that will connect the gas produced from our Horn River 29 Table of Contents Asset, to NGTL’s Alberta System (the “Horn River Mainline”). Our financial exposure is staged in increments as the project is built and ultimately, the costs for the project are estimated to be C$257 million including taxes of approximately C$28 million. Upon completion of the project, the requirement to provide the letters of credit will terminate. We have also committed to deliver gas from our Horn River Asset for gathering and transport and must pay fees related to those services whether or not we deliver gas. These commitments are presented in Delivery Commitments and Purchases of Natural Gas, NGLs and Oil in Item 1. Our ability to fund these commitments may be affected by economic and capital markets conditions and other factors that may be beyond our control. In addition, we only have 99.3 MMcf of proved reserves our Horn River Asset as of December 31, 2011. Accordingly, our ability to deliver up to 1 Tcf of gas depends upon our ability to drill additional successful wells in our Horn River Asset, find third-party sources to supplement or satisfy our obligation or to pay a demand charge. Failure to satisfy our financial or other commitments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth will be limited. In addition to expanding production from our current reserves, we may pursue acquisitions. If we are unable to make these acquisitions because we are: (1) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates, to analyze acquisition opportunities successfully from an operational and financial point of view or to negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them; (2) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; or (3) outbid by competitors, then our future growth could be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions, these acquisitions may not result in an increase in the cash generated by operations. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: Ÿ mistaken assumptions about volume, revenue and costs, including synergies; Ÿ an inability to integrate successfully the assets we acquire; Ÿ the assumption of unknown liabilities; Ÿ limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; Ÿ mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; Ÿ the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention from other business matters; Ÿ unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas, with new customers, or new geographic areas; and Ÿ customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. Drilling locations that we decide to drill may not meet our pre-drilling expectations, may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities and are susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence, timing or success of drilling. As of December 31, 2011, we had 393 proved undeveloped locations with proved undeveloped reserves. These identified drilling locations represent an important part of our strategy. Our ability to execute our drilling program is subject to a number of uncertainties, including the availability of capital, regulatory approvals, commodity prices, costs and drilling results. In addition, the cost and timing of drilling, completing, and operating any well are often uncertain, and new wells may not be productive. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells will be applicable to our identified drilling locations. Even if sufficient amounts of oil or natural gas exist, we may damage the potentially productive hydrocarbon-bearing formation or experience mechanical difficulties while drilling or completing the well, resulting in a reduction in production from the well or abandonment of the well. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. The failure to drill our identified drilling locations on a timely basis or the failure of our drilling locations to yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities could cause a decline in our proved reserves and adversely affect our results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Many of our properties are in areas that may have been partially depleted or drained by offset wells and certain of our wells may be adversely affected by actions other operators may take when operating wells that they own. Many of our properties are in areas that may have already been partially depleted. The owners of leasehold interests lying contiguous or adjacent to or adjoining any of our properties could take actions, such as drilling additional wells, which could adversely affect our operations. When a new well is completed and produced, the pressure differential in the vicinity of the well causes the migration of reservoir fluids towards the new wellbore (and potentially away from existing wellbores). As a result, the drilling and production of these potential locations could cause a depletion of our proved reserves and may inhibit our ability to further develop our proved reserves. In addition, operations conducted on adjacent or nearby wells could cause production from our wells to be shut in for indefinite periods of time for completion operations and other activities conducted on those properties, could result in increased lease operating expense and could adversely affect the production from our wells after they re-commence production. We have no control over the operations or activities of offsetting operators. Horn River is in an early stage of development and has limited infrastructure. Our Horn River Asset is at an early stage of development. As such, there is limited information on reservoir quality and continuity which may affect the development schedule and well spacing requirements to fully recover the natural gas reserves. Additionally, the infrastructure in our Horn River Asset is still in development, which could lead to delays or unexpected costs associated with getting our production to market. Aboriginal peoples hold certain constitutionally protected rights in Canada that could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Aboriginal peoples in Canada hold certain constitutionally protected rights pursuant to historic occupation of lands, historic customs and treaties with governments. Such rights may include, among other things, rights to access lands, and hunting and fishing rights. The extent and nature of aboriginal rights vary from place to place in Canada, depending on historic and contemporary circumstances. All of our Horn River Asset acreage is covered by overlapping aboriginal rights claims. We are not aware that any claims have been made against us in respect of our properties and assets in connection with aboriginal rights; however, if a claim arose and was successful, such claim may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, prior to making decisions that may adversely affect existing or claimed aboriginal rights, governments in Canada have a duty to consult with aboriginal people potentially affected, and in some instances, a duty to accommodate concerns raised through such consultation. Regulatory authorizations for our operations may be affected by the time required for the completion of aboriginal consultation and operational restrictions imposed by governmental authorities pursuant to such consultation may materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant increase in the differential between the NYMEX price or other benchmark prices and the prices we receive for our production could adversely affect our financial condition. The prices that we receive for our production often reflect a regional discount, based on the location of production, to the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX, that are used for calculating the fair value of our commodity derivatives. Although there has been a demonstrated and consistent basis spread between NYMEX and where we sell our production, any increase in these differentials, if significant, could adversely affect our financial condition. The recent adoption of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivatives to reduce the effect of commodity price risk, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. We use commodity derivatives to manage our commodity price risk. The U.S. Congress recently adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that, among other things, establishes comprehensive federal oversight and regulation of over-the-counter derivatives and many of the entities that participate in that market. Although the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted on July 21, 2010, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) 31 Table of Contents and the SEC, along with certain other regulators, must promulgate final rules and regulations to implement many of its provisions relating to over-the-counter derivatives. While some of these rules have been finalized, many have not and, as a result, the final form and timing of the implementation of the new regulatory regime affecting commodity derivatives remains uncertain. In particular, on October 18, 2011, the CFTC adopted final rules under the Dodd-Frank Act establishing position limits for certain, energy commodity futures and options contracts and economically equivalent swaps, futures and options. The position limit levels set the maximum amount of a contract that a trader may own or control separately or in combination, net long or short. The final rules also contain limited exemptions from position limits for certain bona fide hedging transactions and positions that were established in good faith before the initial limits become effective. The final rules became effective on January 17, 2012, but position limits will be phased in over time according to a specified schedule and the implementation of certain position limits is dependent on finalization of certain other rules to be jointly promulgated by the CFTC and the SEC. In addition, on December 2, 2011, the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. and the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association filed a legal challenge to the final rules, claiming, among other things, that the rules may adversely impact commodities markets and market participants, including end-users, by reducing liquidity and increasing price volatility. While the timing of implementation of the final rules on position limits, their applicability to, and impact on, us and the success of any legal challenge to their validity remain uncertain, there can be no assurance that they will not have a material adverse impact on us by affecting the prices of or market for commodities relevant to our operations and/or by reducing the availability to us of commodity derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act will also impose a number of other new requirements on certain over-the-counter derivatives that may have a material adverse effect on us. The Dodd-Frank Act will also subject certain swap dealers and major swap participants to significant new regulatory requirements which in certain cases may cause them to conduct their activities through new entities that may not be as creditworthy as our current counterparties. The impact of this new regulatory regime on the availability, pricing and terms and conditions of commodity derivatives remains uncertain, but there can be no assurance that it will not have a materially adverse effect on our ability to hedge our exposure to commodity prices. In addition, under Dodd-Frank swap dealers and major swap participants will be required to collect initial and variation margin from certain end-users of over-the-counter derivatives. While rules implementing many of these requirements have been proposed by relevant regulators, not all have been finalized and therefore the timing of their implementation and their applicability to us remains uncertain. Depending on the final rules and definitions ultimately adopted, we might in the future be required to post collateral for some or all of our derivative transactions. Posting of collateral could cause liquidity issues for us by reducing our ability to use our cash or other assets for capital expenditures or other corporate purposes and could therefore reduce our ability to execute strategic hedges to reduce commodity price uncertainty and thus protect cash flows. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the regulations promulgated under it and the changes to the nature of the derivatives markets, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of commodity prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity contracts related to natural gas, NGLs and oil. Our revenue could, therefore, be adversely affected if commodity prices were to decrease. Lastly, the Dodd-Frank Act requires, no later than 270 days after the enactment of the Act, the SEC to promulgate rules requiring SEC reporting companies that engage in the commercial development of oil, natural gas or minerals, to include in their annual reports filed with the SEC disclosure about all payments (including taxes, royalties, fees and other amounts) made by the issuer or an entity controlled by the issuer to the United States or to any non-U.S. government for the purpose of commercial development of oil, natural gas or minerals. As these rules are not yet effective, we are unable to predict what form these rules may take and whether we will be able to comply with them without adversely impacting our business, or at all. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent on a relatively small group of key management personnel, including our executive officers. There is a risk that the services of all of these individuals may not be available to us in the future. Because competition for experienced personnel in our industry can be intense, we may be unable to find acceptable replacements with comparable skills and experience and their loss could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. A small number of existing stockholders exercise significant control over our company, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of stockholder votes. As of February 15, 2012, members of the Darden family, together with entities controlled by them, beneficially owned approximately 30% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, they are generally able to significantly affect the outcome of stockholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our charter or bylaws and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, restated bylaws and stockholder rights plan contain provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change of control without our board of directors’ approval. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws contain provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change of control without our board of directors’ approval. In this regard: Ÿ our board of directors is authorized to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; Ÿ our board of directors is classified; and Ÿ advance notice is required for director nominations by stockholders and actions to be taken at annual meetings at the request of stockholders. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan, which could also impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us, even if that change of control might be beneficial to stockholders, thus increasing the likelihood that incumbent directors will retain their positions. In certain circumstances, the fact that corporate devices are in place that will inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. If our plan to separate certain of our Barnett Shale assets into a new publicly-traded master limited partnership is delayed or not completed, our stock price may decline and our growth potential may not be enhanced. On October 19, 2011, we announced a plan to separate certain of our mature onshore oil and gas properties in our Barnett Shale Asset into a new publicly-traded master limited partnership (“MLP”). On February 10, 2012, MLP filed an initial registration statement on Form S-1 in connection with this planned initial public offering. Completion of this plan is subject to market conditions and numerous other risks beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the general economy, credit markets, equity markets and energy prices. Therefore, it is possible that MLP will not complete an offering of securities, will not raise the planned amount of capital even if an offering of securities is completed and will not be able to complete its proposed actions on the desired timetable. Furthermore, the structure, nature, purpose, and proposed manner of offering of MLP may change materially from those anticipated. If the transaction is not completed or delayed, our stock price may decline and our growth potential may not be enhanced. If completed, our plan to separate portions of our Barnett Shale Asset may not achieve its intended results and could have an adverse effect on us due to a number of factors. Following the completion of the planned initial public offering, we will initially be the largest unitholder of MLP, holding common units, subordinated units and incentive distribution rights. We cannot assure you that the trading price of our common stock, which will include our retained investment in MLP, as adjusted for any changes in the combined capitalization of these companies, will be equal to or greater than the trading price of our common stock prior to the planned initial public offering of MLP. 33 Table of Contents In addition, MLP, and therefore our retained investment in MLP, will be subject to the risks normally attendant to businesses in the oil and natural gas industry, including most of the same risks to which we are subject. Our announcement of this plan did not, and this risk factor does not, constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities. Any offers, solicitations of offers to buy, or any sales of securities of MLP will be made only in accordance with the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 or an exemption therefrom. We have identified a material weakness in our internal controls that, if not properly corrected, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements. We have identified a material weakness in our system of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies in internal controls over financial reporting that results in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The material weakness was related to the design and operating effectiveness of the computation of impairment of our non-oil and gas assets. Specifically, the weakness relates to design deficiencies regarding the assessment of triggering events and the consideration of asset groupings, as well as other deficiencies related to the performance and documentation of a recovery test and other fair value computational matters. In response to the identification of the material weakness, management has enhanced its process for documenting identification of impairment indicators, and the preparation and review of undiscounted recovery tests and discounted cash flow analyses. Significant deficiencies as of December 31, 2011 related to the Company’s calculation of its asset retirement obligation and exclusion of certain future development costs from the depletion calculation. In response to the identification of the significant deficiencies, management has enhanced the process for preparation and review of the inputs to the asset retirement obligation and the depletion calculation. Management believes that these enhancements and improvements, when repeated as applicable in future periods, remediate the material weakness and significant deficiencies described above. Although there can be no assurances, we believe these enhancements and improvements, when repeated in future periods, will remediate the control deficiencies described above. If we are not able to remedy the control deficiencies in a timely manner, we may be unable to provide holders of our securities with the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner and we may incorrectly report financial information, either of which could subject us to litigation and regulatory enforcement actions. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 