Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Salisbury is the registered bank holding company for the Bank, a wholly-owned subsidiary. Salisbury's activity is currently limited to the holding of the Bank's outstanding capital stock and the Bank is Salisbury's primary investment. An investment in Salisbury common stock entails certain risks. Salisbury considers the most significant factors affecting risk in Salisbury common stock as those that are set forth below. These are not the only risks of an investment in Salisbury common stock, and none of the factors set forth below relates to the personal circumstances of individual investors. Investors should read this entire Form 10-K, as well as other documents and exhibits that are incorporated by reference in the 10-K and that have been filed with the SEC, in order to better understand these risks and to evaluate investment in Salisbury common stock. Changes in interest rates and spreads could have a negative impact on earnings. Salisbury’s earnings and financial condition are dependent to a large degree upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The narrowing of interest rate spreads, meaning the difference between interest rates earned on loans and investments and the interest rates paid on deposits and borrowings, could adversely affect Salisbury’s earnings and financial condition. Salisbury cannot predict with certainty or control changes in interest rates. Regional and local economic conditions and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the FRB, affect interest income and interest expense. Salisbury has ongoing policies and procedures designed to manage the risks associated with changes in market interest rates. However, changes in interest rates still may have an adverse effect on Salisbury’s profitability. For example, high interest rates could also affect the volume of loans that Salisbury originates, because higher rates could cause customers to apply for fewer mortgages, or cause depositors to shift funds from accounts that have a comparatively lower rate, to accounts with a higher rate or experience customer attrition due to competitor pricing. If the cost of interest-bearing deposits increases at a rate greater than the yields on interest-earning assets increase, net interest income will be negatively affected. Changes in the asset and liability mix may also affect net interest income. Similarly, lower interest rates cause higher yielding assets to prepay and floating or adjustable rate assets to reset to lower rates. If Salisbury is not able to reduce its funding costs sufficiently, due to either competitive factors or the maturity schedule of existing liabilities, then Salisbury’s net interest margin will decline. Weakness in the markets for residential or commercial real estate, including the secondary residential mortgage loan markets, could reduce Salisbury’s net income and profitability. Declines in home prices, increases in delinquency and default rates, and constrained secondary credit markets affect the mortgage industry generally. Salisbury’s financial results may be adversely affected by changes in real estate values. Decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans and investments. If poor economic conditions result in decreased demand for real estate loans, Salisbury’s net income and profits may decrease. Weakness in the secondary market for residential lending could have an adverse impact upon Salisbury’s profitability. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans held, mortgage loan originations and gains on sale of mortgage loans. Continued declines in real estate values and home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, or other factors, could have further adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods beyond that which is provided for in Salisbury’s allowance for loan losses, which would adversely affect Salisbury’s financial condition or results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Salisbury’s allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. Salisbury’s business is subject to periodic fluctuations based on national and local economic conditions. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on Salisbury’s operations and financial condition. For example, recent declines in housing activity including declines in building permits, housing starts and home prices may make it more difficult for Salisbury’s borrowers to sell their homes or refinance their debt. Sales may also slow, which could strain the resources of real estate developers and builders. The current economic uncertainty has affected employment levels and could impact the ability of Salisbury’s borrowers to service their debt. Bank regulatory agencies also periodically review Salisbury’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for credit losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses Salisbury will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on Salisbury’s financial condition and results of operations. Salisbury may suffer higher loan losses as a result of these factors and the resulting impact on its borrowers. Credit market conditions may impact Salisbury’s investments. Significant credit market anomalies may impact the valuation and liquidity of Salisbury’s investment securities. The problems of numerous financial institutions have reduced market liquidity, increased normal bid-asked spreads and increased the uncertainty of market participants. Such illiquidity could reduce the market value of Salisbury’s investments, even those with no apparent credit exposure. The valuation of Salisbury’s investments requires judgment and as market conditions change investment values may also change. If all or a significant portion of the unrealized losses in Salisbury’s portfolio of investment securities were determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired, Salisbury would recognize a material charge to its earnings and its capital ratios would be adversely impacted. As of December 31, 2009, Salisbury had $3.8 million of after-tax gross unrealized losses associated with its portfolio of securities available-for-sale, compared with $7.0 million at December 31, 2008. The fair value of such securities is supplied by third-party sources. Management must assess whether unrealized losses are other-than-temporary and relies on data supplied by third-party sources to do so. The determination of whether a decline in fair value is other-than-temporary considers numerous factors, many of which involve significant judgment. To the extent that any portion of the unrealized losses in Salisbury’s portfolio of investment securities is determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired, Salisbury will recognize a charge to its earnings in the quarter during which such determination is made and its earnings and capital ratios will be adversely impacted. In 2009, Salisbury recognized $744,000 in after-tax charges to earnings as a result of other-than-temporary impairment determinations. If the goodwill that Salisbury has recorded in connection with its acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have a negative impact on Salisbury’s profitability. Applicable accounting standards require that the purchase method of accounting be used for all business combinations. Under purchase accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of the acquired company’s net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer’s balance sheet as goodwill. At December 31, 2009, Salisbury had $9.8 million of goodwill on its balance sheet. Salisbury must evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. Write-downs of the amount of any impairment, if necessary, are to be charged to the results of operations in the period in which the impairment occurs. There can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which may have a material adverse effect on Salisbury’s financial condition and results of operations. Salisbury’s participation in the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program restricts Salisbury’s ability to increase dividends on its common stock. In March 2009, the U.S. Treasury invested $8.8 million in preferred stock in Salisbury under the CPP. The U.S. Treasury was issued warrants entitling Treasury to buy Salisbury common stock equal to 15% of Treasury’s preferred stock investment. The terms of CPP require Salisbury to pay 5% dividends on the Treasury’s preferred stock for the first five years, and then 9% dividends thereafter (not tax deductible) and restrict Salisbury’s ability to increase its dividends on its common stock, redeem the preferred stock, undertake stock repurchase programs and pay executive compensation so long as Salisbury remains a participant in the CPP. The Treasury or Congress may impose additional restrictions in the future which may apply retroactively. These restrictions have a material effect on Salisbury’s operations, revenue and financial condition and its ability to pay dividends. Salisbury may not pay dividends if it is unable to receive dividends from the Bank. Cash dividends from the Bank and Salisbury’s liquid assets are the principal sources of funds for paying cash dividends on Salisbury’s common stock and preferred stock. Unless Salisbury receives dividends from the Bank or chooses to use its liquid assets, it may not be able to pay dividends. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends to Salisbury is subject to its ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements. 14 Table of Contents Strong competition within Salisbury’s market areas may limit growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. Salisbury competes with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. As Salisbury grows, it may expand into contiguous market areas where it may not be as well known as other institutions that have been operating in those areas for some time. In addition, larger banking institutions may become increasingly active in its market areas and may have substantially greater resources and lending limits than it has and may offer certain services that it does not or cannot efficiently provide. Salisbury’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in its market areas. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some competitors may limit its ability to grow profitably. Salisbury is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. Salisbury and the Bank are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not Shareholders. These regulations affect Salisbury’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect Salisbury in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject Salisbury to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products it may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on Salisbury’s business, financial condition and results of operations. While Salisbury has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 of this report for further information. Salisbury’s stock price can be volatile. Salisbury’s stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including: • Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results • Recommendations by securities analysts • New technology used, or services offered, by competitors • Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving Salisbury or Salisbury’s competitors • Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions • Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to Salisbury • News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry • Changes in government regulations • Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts • Extended recessionary environment General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends or currency fluctuations could also cause Salisbury’s stock price to decrease regardless of Salisbury’s operating results. Salisbury may not be able to attract and retain skilled personnel. Salisbury’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for people with specialized knowledge and skills can be intense and Salisbury may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of Salisbury’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the business because of their skills, knowledge of the market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Salisbury continually encounters technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology can increase efficiency and enable financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. However, some new technologies needed to compete effectively result in incremental operating costs. Salisbury’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in operations. Many of Salisbury’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Salisbury may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on Salisbury’s business and, in turn, its financial condition and results of operations. Salisbury’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates Salisbury’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on Salisbury’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Customer information may be obtained and used fraudulently. Risk of theft of customer information resulting from security breaches by third parties exposes Salisbury to reputation risk and potential monetary loss. Salisbury has exposure to fraudulent use of our customer’s personal information resulting from its general business operations through loss or theft of the information and through customer use of financial instruments, such as debit cards. Changes in accounting standards can materially impact Salisbury’s financial statements. Salisbury’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how Salisbury records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or regulatory authorities change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of Salisbury’s financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, it could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in Salisbury restating prior period financial statements. Changes and interpretations of tax laws and regulations may adversely impact Salisbury’s financial statements. Local, state or federal tax authorities may interpret tax laws and regulations differently than Salisbury and challenge tax positions that Salisbury has taken on its tax returns. This may result in the disallowance of deductions or differences in the timing of deductions and result in the payment of additional taxes, interest or penalties that could materially affect Salisbury’s performance. Unprecedented disruption and significantly increased risk in the financial markets may impact Salisbury. The banking industry has experienced unprecedented turmoil over the past two years as some of the world’s major financial institutions collapsed, were seized or were forced into mergers as the credit markets tightened and the economy headed into a recession and has eroded confidence in the world’s financial system. Measures taken by the Government in an effort to stabilize the economy may have unintended consequences and there can be no assurance that Salisbury will not be impacted by current market uncertainty in a way it cannot currently predict or mitigate. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS None. 