ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings with the SEC in evaluating our business. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impact our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our operating results may be affected. Risks Relating to Our Business The loss of one or more of our major customers could result in a material loss of revenues. In fiscal 2010, we derived approximately 41% of our consolidated net sales from our top eight customers, including mass channel customers. Kohl’s accounted for approximately 10% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2010. Both the Carter’s and OshKosh wholesale segments include sales to Kohl’s. We do not enter into long-term sales contracts with our major customers, relying instead on long-standing relationships and on our position in the marketplace. As a result, we face the risk that one or more of our major customers may significantly decrease their business with us or terminate their relationships with us. Any such decrease or termination of our major customers’ business could result in a material decrease in our sales and operating results. The acceptance of our products in the marketplace is affected by consumers’ tastes and preferences, along with fashion trends. We believe that continued success depends on our ability to provide a unique and compelling value proposition for our consumers in the Company’s distribution channels. There can be no assurance that the demand for our products will not decline, or that we will be able to successfully and timely evaluate and adapt our products to changes in consumers’ tastes and preferences or fashion trends. If consumers’ tastes and preferences are not aligned with our product offerings, promotional pricing may be required to move seasonal merchandise. Increased use of promotional pricing would have a material adverse effect on our sales, gross margin, and results of operations. The value of our brand, and our sales, could be diminished if we are associated with negative publicity. Although our employees, agents, and third-party compliance auditors periodically visit and monitor the operations of our vendors, independent manufacturers, and licensees, we do not control these vendors, independent manufacturers, licensees, or their labor practices. A violation of our vendor policies, licensee agreements, labor laws, or other laws by these vendors, independent manufacturers, or licensees could interrupt or otherwise disrupt our supply chain or damage our brand image. As a result, negative publicity regarding our Company, brands or products, including licensed products, could adversely affect our reputation and sales. In addition, the Company’s brand image, which is associated with providing a consumer product with outstanding quality and name recognition, makes it valuable as a royalty source. The Company is able to generate royalty income from the sale of licensed products that bear its Carter’s, Just One Year, Just One You, Precious Firsts, Child of Mine, OshKosh, OshKosh Est. 1895, Genuine Kids, and related trademarks. The Company also generates foreign royalty income as our OshKosh B’gosh label carries an international reputation for quality and American style. While the Company takes significant steps to ensure the reputation of its brand is maintained through its license agreements, there can be no guarantee that the Company’s brand image will not be negatively impacted through its association with products outside of the Company’s core apparel products. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation, investigations or other proceedings, including those related to our previously filed restatements. We are currently involved in litigation matters and investigations and may be subject to additional actions in the future. As disclosed in the Company’s amended and restated Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2008, we announced on November 10, 2009, that our Audit Committee, with the assistance of outside counsel, had commenced a review of customer margin support provided by the Company and an investigation into undisclosed margin support commitments and related matters. The Company self-reported information concerning this investigation to the SEC in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and has also been informed that the United States Attorney’s Office is conducting an investigation into this matter. In December 2010, the Company and the SEC entered into a non-prosecution agreement pursuant to which the SEC agreed not to charge the Company with any violations of the federal securities laws, commence any enforcement action against the Company, or require the Company to pay any financial penalties in connection with the SEC’s investigation of customer margin support provided by the Company, conditioned upon the Company’s continued cooperation with the SEC’s investigation and with any related enforcement proceedings. The Company has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, substantial expenses for legal and accounting services due to the SEC and United States Attorney’s Office investigations and any resulting litigation. These matters have diverted in the past, and may continue to divert in the future, management’s time and attention away from operations and cause the Company to continue to incur substantial costs. The Company also may bear additional costs to the extent it is required, under the terms of organizational documents or under Delaware law, to indemnify former officers of the Company in respect of costs they incur in connection with any proceedings related to these matters. At this point, the Company is unable to predict the duration, costs, scope or result of these matters. 7 As described in more detail in Part I - Item 3 of this filing, the Company is also currently subject to two class action lawsuits and a derivative shareholder action lawsuit, as well as various other claims and pending or threatened lawsuits in the normal course of our business. We have only limited amounts of insurance, which may not provide coverage to offset a negative judgment or a settlement payment, which could be substantial. We may be unable to obtain additional insurance in the future, or we may be unable to do so on favorable terms. Our insurers may also dispute our claims for coverage. Further, these lawsuits may result in diversion of management's time and attention, the expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees and o ther expenses, and injury to our reputation, all of which may adversely affect our operations and financial condition. The Company’s databases containing personal information of our retail customers could be breached, which could subject us to adverse publicity, litigation, and expenses. In addition, if we are unable to comply with security standards created by the banks and payment card industry, our operations could be adversely affected. Database privacy, network security, and identity theft are matters of growing public concern. In an attempt to prevent unauthorized access to our network and databases containing confidential, third-party information, we have installed privacy protection systems, devices, and activity monitoring on our network. Nevertheless, if unauthorized parties gain access to our networks or databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete, or modify our private and sensitive third-party information. In such circumstances, we could be held liable to our customers or other parties or be subject to regulatory or other actions for breaching privacy rules. This could result in costly investigations and litigation, civil or criminal penalti es, and adverse publicity that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and reputation. Further, if we are unable to comply with the security standards, established by banks and payment card industry, we may be subject to fines, restrictions, and expulsion from card acceptance programs, which could adversely affect our retail operations. Increased production costs and deflationary pressures on our selling prices may adversely affect our results. The Company’s product costs, driven by inflation in significant component costs such as cotton, polyester, labor, and transportation, have increased and are expected to continue to increase for the foreseeable future. Our product costs have also been adversely impacted by the devaluation of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies. These inflationary and currency risk factors have begun to result in higher costs of goods sold and inventory levels. Although we plan to raise our selling prices on some of our products, we do not expect in the near term to be able to fully absorb these cost increases and our profitability will be adversely impacted. In recent years, the Company has also experienced deflationary pressure on its selling prices, in part driven by intense price competition in the young children’s apparel industry. In this environment there is a risk that customers will not accept our price increases. If the Company is unable to effectively raise selling prices to help offset higher production costs, the adverse effect on our profitability may be even greater than anticipated. Our business is sensitive to overall levels of consumer spending, particularly in the young children’s apparel segment. Consumers’ demand for young children’s apparel, specifically brand name apparel products, is impacted by the overall level of consumer spending. Discretionary consumer spending is impacted by employment levels, gasoline and utility costs, business conditions, availability of consumer credit, tax rates, interest rates, levels of consumer indebtedness, and overall levels of consumer confidence. Recent and further reductions in the level of discretionary spending may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s sales and results of operations. 8 We source substantially all of our products through foreign production arrangements. Our dependence on foreign supply sources could result in disruptions to our operations in the event of political instability, unfavorable economic conditions, international events, or new foreign regulations and such disruptions may increase our cost of goods sold and decrease gross profit. We source substantially all of our products through a network of vendors primarily in Asia, coordinated by our sourcing agents. The following could disrupt our foreign supply chain, increase our cost of goods sold, decrease our gross profit, or impact our ability to get products to our customers: · financial instability of one or more of our major vendors; · political instability or other international events resulting in the disruption of trade in foreign countries from which we source our products; · increases in transportation costs as a result of increased fuel prices or significant changes in the relationship between carrier capacity and shipper demand; · interruptions in the supply, or increases in the cost of raw materials, including cotton, fabric, and trim items; · significant changes in the cost of labor in our sourcing locations; · the imposition of new regulations relating to imports, duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; · the occurrence of a natural disaster, unusual weather conditions, or an epidemic, the spread of which may impact our ability to obtain products on a timely basis; · changes in the United States customs procedures concerning the importation of apparel products; · unforeseen delays in customs clearance of any goods; · disruption in the global transportation network such as a port strike, world trade restrictions, or war; · the application of foreign intellectual property laws; · the ability of our vendors to secure sufficient credit to finance the manufacturing process including the acquisition of raw materials; and · exchange rate fluctuations between the United States dollar and the local currencies of foreign contractors. These and other events beyond our control could interrupt our supply chain and delay receipt of our products into the United States. We source all of our products through a network of vendors. We have limited control over these vendors and we may experience delays, product recalls or loss of revenues if our products do not meet our quality standards or regulatory requirements. Our vendors, independent manufacturers, and licensees may not continue to provide products that are consistent with our standards. We have occasionally received, and may in the future continue to receive, shipments of product that fail to conform to our quality control standards. A failure in our quality control program may result in diminished product quality, which may result in increased order cancellations and returns, decreased consumer demand for our products, or product recalls, any of which may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, notwithstanding our strict quality control procedures, because we do not control our vendors, products that fail to meet our standards, or other unautho rized products, could end up in the marketplace without our knowledge. This could materially harm our brand and our reputation in the marketplace. 9 Our products are subject to regulation of and regulatory standards set by various governmental authorities including the Consumer Product Safety Commission, with respect to quality and safety. Regulations and standards in this area are currently in place. These regulations and standards may change from time to time. Our inability, or that of our vendors, to comply on a timely basis with regulatory requirements could result in significant fines or penalties, which could adversely affect our reputation and sales. Issues with the quality and safety of merchandise we sell in our stores, regardless of our culpability, or customer concerns about such issues, could result in damage to our reputation, lost sales, uninsured product liability claims or losses, merchandise recalls, and increased costs. The loss of a sourcing agent could negatively impact our ability to timely deliver our inventory supply and disrupt our business, which may adversely affect our operating results. One sourcing agent manages approximately 90% of our inventory purchases. Although we believe that other buying agents could be retained, the loss of this buying agent could delay our ability to timely receive inventory supply and disrupt our business, which could result in a material adverse effect on our operating results. We operate in a highly competitive market and the size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, resulting in a loss of market share and, as a result, a decrease in revenue and gross profit. The baby and young children's apparel market is highly competitive. Both branded and private label manufacturers compete in the baby and young children's apparel market. Our primary competitors in our wholesale and mass channel businesses include Disney, Gerber, and private label product offerings. Our primary competitors in the retail store channel include Old Navy, The Gap, The Children’s Place, Gymboree, 77kids, and Disney. Because of the fragmented nature of the industry, we also compete with many other manufacturers and retailers. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and larger customer bases than we have and are less financially leveraged than we are. As a result, these comp etitors may be able to: ·adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly; ·take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities more readily; ·devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products; and ·adopt more aggressive pricing strategies than we can. The Company’s retail success and future growth is dependent upon identifying locations and negotiating appropriate lease terms for retail stores. The Company’s retail stores are located in leased retail locations across the country. Successful operation of a retail store depends, in part, on the overall ability of the retail location to attract a consumer base sufficient to make store sales volume profitable. If the Company is unable to identify new retail locations with consumer traffic sufficient to support a profitable sales level, retail growth may consequently be limited. Further, if existing outlet and brand stores do not maintain a sufficient customer base that provides a reasonable sales volume or the Company is unable to negotiate appropriate lease terms for the retail stores, there could be a material adverse impact on the Company’s sales, gross margin, and re sults of operations. Profitability could be negatively impacted if we do not adequately forecast the demand for our products and, as a result, create significant levels of excess inventory or insufficient levels of inventory. If the Company does not adequately forecast demand for its products and purchases inventory to support an inaccurate forecast, the Company could experience increased costs due to the need to dispose of excess inventory or lower profitability due to insufficient levels of inventory. We may not achieve sales growth plans, cost savings, and other assumptions that support the carrying value of our intangible assets. As of January 1, 2011, the Company had Carter’s goodwill of $136.6 million, a $220.2 million Carter’s brand tradename asset, and an $85.5 million OshKosh brand tradename asset on its consolidated balance sheet. The carrying value of these assets is subject to annual impairment reviews as of the last day of each fiscal year or more frequently, if deemed necessary, due to any significant events or changes in circumstances. Estimated future cash flows used in these impairment reviews could be negatively impacted if we do not achieve our sales plans, planned cost savings, and other assumptions that support the carrying value of t hese intangible assets, which could result in potential impairment of the remaining asset value. 10 The Company’s success is dependent upon retaining key individuals within the organization to execute the Company’s strategic plan. The Company’s ability to attract and retain qualified executive management, marketing, merchandising, design, sourcing, operations, and support function staffing is key to the Company’s success. If the Company were unable to attract and retain qualified individuals in these areas, an adverse impact on the Company’s growth and results of operations may result. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 