1A: Risk Factors.” Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements. PART 1 Item 1. Business China Aoxing Pharmaceutical (“China Aoxing” or the “Company”) is a specialty pharmaceutical company located in China specializing in research, development, manufacturing and distribution of a variety of narcotics and pain-management products. Headquartered in Shijiazhuang City, the pharmaceutical capital of China, outside of Beijing, China Aoxing has China's largest and the most advanced manufacturing facility for highly regulated narcotic medicines, addressing a very under-served and fast-growing market in China. Its facility is one of the few GMP facilities licensed for narcotics medicines. The Company is working closely with the Chinese government and SFDA to assure the strictly regulated availability to medical professionals of its narcotic drugs and pain medicines throughout China. The Company has one operating subsidiary, Hebei Aoxing Pharmaceutical Co., Inc. (“Hebei”), which at June 30, 2009 is 95% owned, and organized under the laws of the Peoples Republic of China (“PRC”). Since 2002, Hebei has been engaged in developing narcotics and pain management products, building its facilities and obtaining the requisite licenses from the Chinese Government. During the year ended June 30, 2009, Hebei integrated into itself the business operations of Shijiazhuang Lerentang Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd. (“LRT”), a specialty pharmaceutical company focusing on pain related therapeutics which had been an operating subsidiary acquired by Hebei in May 2008. The Company owns 95% of the equity in Hebei. The Company was incorporated in the State of Florida on January 23, 1996 under the name “Central American Equities Corp.” Until mid-2006, the Company was engaged in the business of owning and operating hotels and restaurants and real property in Costa Rica. On July 31, 2006, the Company’s hotel assets were sold to the individuals who were the Company’s Board of Directors until April 18, 2006. On April 18, 2006, Ostar Pharmaceutical, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was merged into a wholly-owned subsidiary of Central American Equities Corp. Ostar Pharmaceutical owned 60% of Hebei Aoxing Pharmaceutical Group Co. Ltd (“Hebei Aoxing”), which is organized under the laws of The People’s Republic of China. As a result of the merger, the former stockholders of Ostar Pharmaceutical became owners of a majority of the voting power of the Company, and the Company became the owner of a 60% interest in Hebei Aoxing. On July 6, 2006, the Company changed its name to “China Aoxing Pharmaceutical Company, Inc.” to better reflect the nature of its business. 1 On May 1, 2008 China Aoxing completed the acquisition of an additional 35% interest in Hebei Aoxing from its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Zhenjiang Yue. As a result of the acquisition, China Aoxing owns 95% of Hebei Aoxing, and the remaining 5% of Hebei Aoxing is owned by our Chairman, Zhenjiang Yue, and his family. On April 15, 2008 China Aoxing entered into a Joint Strategic Alliance and Securities Purchase Agreement with American Oriental Bioengineering, Inc. (“AOB”). The agreement provides that China Aoxing and AOB will cooperate in the development and marketing of several narcotic drugs. The agreement also provided for the sale to AOB by China Aoxing of 30 million shares of its common stock. On April 16, 2008, Hebei Aoxing completed the acquisition of 100% of the registered capital of LRT. LRT is engaged in the manufacture and distribution of Chinese traditional medicines focusing on pain management related therapeutics within China. In exchange for transfer of ownership of LRT to Hebei Aoxing, China Aoxing paid to the shareholders of LRT 80 million RMB and related expenses (approximately $12.4 million in total) and issued 8 million shares of common stock. As of June 30, 2009, LRT was completed integrated into Hebei Aoxing. Current Business We are a specialized pharmaceutical company focusing on research, development, manufacturing and marketing of a broad range of narcotics and pain management pharmaceutical products. Our broad product line is comprised of prescription and over-the-counter pharmaceutical products. Our pharmaceutical products have been approved by the Chinese State Food and Drug Administration, or SFDA, based on demonstrated safety and efficacy. We sell our products primarily to hospitals, clinics, pharmacies and retail in most of the provinces of China, including rural areas and major cities. Pharmaceutical Industry in China: According to a recent ISI Emerging Markets report, the pharmaceutical industry in China was approximately $27.7 billion in 2005 and China is forecast to become the world’s fifth largest pharmaceutical market by 2010. This growth is being driven by several factors, including improving standards of living，an increase in disposable income fueled by the growing economy, the aging population, the increasing participation in the State Basic Medical Insurance System, as well as the increase in government spending on public health care. The Chinese government pledged $4 billion for healthcare spending in 2007, an 81% increase from the $2.2 billion in 2006. In August, 2009, the Ministry of Health (MoH) of China released an Essential Drug List of 300 drugs to be sold at controlled prices as part of its US$124 billion health care reform. The EDL includes both Western and Chinese medicines, targeting common antibiotics, pain relievers, high blood pressure, and etc. Thirty one products of our company are listed on the EDL. The Company, therefore, expects sales to MoH-related agencies to represent a significant source of revenue growth in future periods. The Company is working closely and negotiating with related government agencies on the product supply and purchase in the next several years. 2 Narcotics Industry in China: Currently, the pharmaceutical market in China is highly fragmented. We believe there are over 3,000 small enterprises currently engaged in the development, manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products, and we expect significant consolidation of pharmaceutical business, products and technologies in China in near future. However, based on recent statistics provided by the China SFDA, there are only 13 pharmaceutical companies designated by the China SFDA as the narcotic drug producers in China. Regulatory and Quality Control: Each of our pharmaceutical products has certain medicinal functions and has demonstrated safety and efficacy in accordance with the China SFDA requirements for the treatment of at least one or more therapeutic indications. Our products are produced in various formulations, such as injection, tablets, capsules, oral solution and powders. Our manufacturing facility in China is GMP certified, fully integrated with manufacturing support systems including quality assurance, quality control and regulatory compliance. We have developed our own independent quality control systems in accordance with SFDA regulations. Our quality assurance team devotes significant attention to quality control for designing, manufacturing and testing our products, and is also responsible for ensuring that we are in compliance with all applicable national and local regulations and standards, as well as our internal policies. Our senior management team is also actively involved in setting quality assurance policies and managing internal and external quality performance. These support systems enable us to maintain high standards of quality for our products and deliver reliable products to our customers on a timely basis. Naloxone SFDA Approval Received for Marketing: In November 2006, Hebei Aoxing received GMP certification for its Naloxone raw materials workshop from the China SFDA. Hebei Aoxing started the production of the Naloxone raw materials in December 2006. In January, 2007 the SFDA granted Hebei Aoxing the final GMP certificate (H4107) for small volume injectables, which was a significant milestone in our history. In February 2007, Hebei Aoxing initiated the product launch of Naloxone Hydrochloride injectable in the Chinese market. Currently Hebei Aoxing is authorize by the SFDA to manufacture Naloxone Hydrochloride injectable in four dosage strengths: 0.4mg (1ml), 1mg (1ml), 2mg (2ml) and 4mg (10ml). Tilidine under Clinical Development: In April 2007, Hebei Aoxing received clearance from the China SFDA for the clinical study of Tilidine Hydrochloride tablets and capsules for the treatment of moderate to severe pain associated with cancer and surgery, as well as other forms of pain. The Tilidine tablets and capsules drug are not currently available in China. To the best of our knowledge, Hebei Aoxing is currently the only authorized domestic manufacturer to develop Tilidine tablets and capsules. Hebei Aoxing is currently conducting clinical studies, which will include approximately four hundred patients through several health centers in China. The purpose of the study will be to confirm Tilidine's efficacy and safety in reducing pain levels for Chinese patients. 3 In November 2007, Hebei Aoxing was granted by the China SFDA the designated manufacturer status to produce Tilidine tablet and capsules, a highly regulated narcotic drug, in order to address significant unmet medical needs in cancer pain management in China. Currently the Company is conducting multi-center clinical studies to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of Tilidine product among Chinese patients. Cancer has become a leading cause of death in China, estimated at 1.5 million victims per year. The number of victims is soaring especially in rural and western China. The Chinese government and medical community are fully aware that China is woefully behind the rest of world in cancer pain treatment. Codeine Phosphate Compound Oral Solution under Clinical Development: In June 2007, Hebei Aoxing received formal approval from the SFDA for the clinical study of Codeine Phosphate Compound Medicine for cold and flu treatment. While Codeine Phosphate is widely used and considered effective in cold and flu treatment in Western countries, it just became available in China in 2006. To the best of our knowledge, Hebei Aoxing is one of only two drug makers developing this medicine in China. The company is conducting clinical studies of the Codeine Phosphate Compound Medicine to test efficacy and safety in China. The clinical study is a multi-center randomized, double-blind, controlled trial, involving approximately 300 patients in China. In June 2009 the Company completed the registration trial with Codeine Phosphate, a compound oral solution for the treatment of acute moderate to severe cough. This registration trial is a randomized, multi-center, double-blind, positive-controlled study designed to evaluate the efficacy and efficacy of compound oral solution of codeine phosphate in 215 patient subjects with acute moderate to severe cough. In early September 2009, the Company announced the submission of its new drug application (NDA) of the product to the China SFDA. Buprenorphine/Naloxone under Development: Also in November 2007, the China SFDA granted Hebei Aoxing and its partner, the National Institute of Drug Dependence at Beijing University, an important research and development license of Buprenorphine/Naloxone sublingual combo tablet to treat opioid dependence. This project has been a joint effort of scientists from our Company and Beijing University since April 2005. This new combo therapy is expressly designed to combine the proven effectiveness and tolerability of buprenorphine with a lower potential for misuse, underlining our commitment to this therapy area. There is much peer-reviewed evidence of superior efficacy and safety profile for this therapy. Opioid dependence has become a seriously medical and social challenge in China. As of 2006, there were approximately 1.2 million registered individuals addicted to opioids in China. This figure is estimated to grow at 10% per year while the number of un-registered drug addicts could be significantly higher. Paracetamol and Caffeine Tablets SFDA Approval received for Marketing: In December 2008, the Company announced that Hebei Aoxing received a new production license from the China SFDA for Paracetamol and Caffeine Tablets, a controlled substance regulated by the SFDA. Paracetamol and Caffeine Tablets are used to treat mild to moderate pain, such as headache, migraine, toothache, sore throat, muscular and rheumatic pain, nerve pain (neuralgia), backache (lumbago) and menstrual cramps. The tablets are also effective in relieving aches, pains, sore throat and fever associated with colds and flu. 4 Primary Dysmenorrha Drug at Phase II Clinical Trial: In May 2009 the Company acquired all rights to Tong Jin Shu Le (“TJSL”), a novel drug at Phase II development stage to treat primary dysmenorrhea (“”PD”), or menstrual pain, in adult women. TJSL is a capsule form of selected herbal medicines at Phase II clinical development under the protocol approved by the China SFDA. The prevalence rates of PD among women are from 60 to 90 percent. It is estimated that 64% of women in China purchase menstrual pain drugs on regular basis. The market size of healthcare product to address menstrual pain is estimated at $3 billion per year in China. GMP Certification from SFDA: In April 2009, the China SFDA granted the Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) certification for the Company’s newly opened tablet formulation and packaging production facility. The certification allows the Company to manufacture pharmaceutical products in tablet dosage form and to prepare for the launch of several important narcotic drugs in tablet dosage form in foreseeable future, including Tilidine, Oxycodone, Buprenorphine and others, which provide well established medical benefit in treating cancer pain, moderate to severe pain, or related chronic health problems. In addition, the Company retains valid GMP certification for capsule, injectable, other finished dosage products as well as active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) production. Products – Narcotics and Pain Management Global consumption of narcotic analgesics for the treatment of moderate to severe pain increased by more than two and one half times during the past decade. However, the increase in consumption occurred mainly in countries in Europe and North America. Narcotics, also known as opioids, are chemical substances that have a morphine-like action in the body. They are prescribed when other pain medications and therapies fail to work. Opioids are used mostly for their analgesic properties to treat severe pain (fentanyl, hydromorphone, methadone, morphine and pethidine), moderate to severe pain (buprenorphine18 and oxycodone) and mild to moderate pain (codeine, dihydrocodeine and dextropropoxyphene), as well as to induce or supplement anaesthesia (fentanyl and fentanyl analogues such as alfentanil and remifentanil). They are also used as cough suppressants (codeine, dihydrocodeine and, to a lesser extent, pholcodine and ethylmorphine), to treat gastrointestinal disorders, mainly diarrhoea (codeine and diphenoxylate), and in the treatment of addiction to opioids (buprenorphine and methadone). Certain analgesic opioids, such as hydrocodone or oxycodone, are compounded in mixtures with non-opiate drugs to provide analgesic action (analgesic-antipyretic preparations). These drugs are often used in combination with other medications such as antidepressants, anticonvulsants, and non-narcotic pain relievers. Opioids are the strongest pain medicines available and may become addictive if used on a long-term basis. Scientific research suggests that opioids relieve pain in two ways. First, they attach to opioid receptors, which are specific proteins on the surface of cells in the brain, spinal cord and gastrointestinal tract. These drugs interfere and stop the transmission of pain messages to the brain. Second, they work in the brain to alter the sensation of pain. These drugs do not take the pain away, but they do reduce and alter the patient’s perception of the pain. There are four broad classes of narcotics, (1) endogenous opioid peptides (opioids produced naturally in the body); (2) opiates, such as the naturally occurring alkaloids, morphine, codeine, thebaine, papaverine, and the non-alkaloid heroin (processed morphine); (3) semi-synthetic opioids, created from the natural opioids, such as hydromorphone, hydrocodone, and oxycodone; and (4) fully synthetic opioids, such as fentanyl, pethidine, methadone, and propoxyphene. 5 Opioid drugs have been associated with illicit drug abuse and drug related crime since the onset of their medical use. The United Nations and its member States coordinate this matter through the International drug control conventions. Over 95 per cent of the Member States of the United Nations are now parties to the international drug control conventions, or the “Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, 1961,” organized by International Narcotics Control Board (“INCB”). The conventions contain the basic legal structure, obligations, tools and guidance that are needed for all States to achieve the main aims of the international drug control system: controlled universal availability of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances for medical and scientific purposes only; prevention of drug abuse, drug trafficking and other forms of drug-related crime; and the undertaking of effective remedial action when prevention does not fully succeed. As such, the conventions constitute the world’s agreed proportionate response to the global problems of illicit drug abuse and trafficking and the world’s agreed legal framework for international drug control. China entered the “Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, 1961” in 1985, which resulted in the gradual loosening of government policy toward the control of analgesic supplies. Since its inception in 2002, Hebei Aoxing has been focusing on research, development, manufacturing and distribution of a variety of narcotics and pain management pharmaceutical products in China. Its facility is dedicated to conducting the narcotic drug business with GMP manufacturing capability for drugs in tablet, capsule, injectable, oral solution and granulated formulations. Over the years, the company has developed a compelling pipeline in narcotics and pain management drugs, including Naloxone, Oxycodone, Tilidine, Codeine Phosphate, Pholcodine, Buprenorphine, etc. Naloxone Series. As an opioid antagonist, Naloxone has curative effects for pain, shock, alcoholism, and cerebral infarction, widely applied in clinical treatment. Naloxone or Naloxone Hydrochloride is recommended by the WHO (World Health Organization) to treat acute alcoholism and acute poisoning of opioid and non-opioid drugs. The Company’s application for a license to develop facilities to manufacture Naloxone was approved by China’s SFDA in January 2005 followed by the final production approval of the Naloxone injectable. We introduced the product to the market in February 2007. Naloxone Hydrochloride was developed by the DuPont Company, and was introduced into the US market in the 1970’s. Since then it has been introduced into the additional markets of Britain, Germany, France and Italy. The Beijing Academy of Military Medical Sciences first used Naloxone Hydrochloride as morphine antagonist in China to ease the indication of breath suppression and awakening after a morphine-based anesthesia. Oxycodone Series. Oxycodone is a derivative of the semi-synthetic opioid, alkaloid thebaine. Its pharmacological properties are similar to those of morphine. It is an agonist of the opioid receptor, and is able to relieve acute pain. Global manufacture of Oxycodone rose gradually during the 1990s, amounting to 11.5 tons in 1998. Since 1999, the growth of manufacture has accelerated, reaching the record level of 56.5 tons in 2005. The United States manufactured 40.3 tons in 2005 and accounted for 71 percent of the world total. The manufacture of Oxycodone also grew steadily in the United Kingdom and France, contributing 19 percent (10.9 tons) and 8 percent (4.4 tons) respectively to the global total. Three other countries, Switzerland, Japan and Slovakia, manufactured Oxycodone in smaller quantities of between 100 and 500 kg. 6 Global consumption has also risen steadily, reflecting the increased use of controlled-release preparations containing Oxycodone for the treatment of moderate to severe pain. In 2005 global consumption reached the highest level ever recorded, 42.3 tons, mainly as a result of increased consumption in the United States, which continued to be the largest consumer of Oxycodone, accounting for 80 per cent of the world total in 2006. Other major consumer countries in 2005 (all reporting increased consumption) were Canada (3 tons), Germany (1.6 tons), Australia (774 kg) and the United Kingdom (501 kg), together accounting for 14 percent of global consumption. Consumption of Oxycodone has spread to more than 50 other countries, including developing countries. In 1980’s, after the World Health Organization introduced the Three Step Principle in Cancer Pain Treatment, the production and consumption of Oxycodone increased quickly in the world. The effectiveness and safeness of Oxycodone in treating cancer pain have been acknowledged by the Chinese medicine community. But since China does not produce Oxycodone in bulk, the clinical application of Oxycodone is still impossible. Although the SFDA had granted import licenses for Oxycodone controlled-release tablets (Oxycontin) and the composite capsule of Oxycodone and paracetamol (Tylox), most patients in China cannot afford the imported drugs. Therefore the Chinese government is heavily committed to producing Oxycodone pharmaceuticals in bulk domestically. Hebei Aoxing recently submitted additional information to the SFDA and is currently waiting for a clinical trial license to be issued by the SFDA. Tilidine Series. Tilidine is a leading opioid analgesic drug in Europe, used in the treatment of moderate to severe pain associated with cancer, post surgery, and other forms of pain. Tilidine is widely prescribed in Europe, with Germany, Ireland, Switzerland and Belgium as major users. Based on the “Narcotic Drugs” reported by the International Narcotics Control Board in year 2006, global Tilidine manufacture followed a generally increasing trend after 1993, from 8.2 tons in that year to a peak of 45.2 tons in 2004. Global consumption of Tilidine has continued to increase, reaching its peak in 2005, with 28.9 tons. Tilidine is not currently manufactured in China. To the best of its knowledge, the Company believes that it is currently the only government approved domestic manufacturer to conducting clinical trials in order to bring Tilidine capsules and tablets into China market. Buprenorphine Series. Buprenorphine is an opioid that has been used as an analgesic. The increasing consumption of Buprenorphine in recent years is mainly the result of its use in detoxification and substitution treatment of opioid dependence in a growing number of countries. Hebei Aoxing is working on a sublingual tablet formulation of Buprenorphine combined with Naloxone for drug abuse treatment. At present, more than 40 countries are importing Buprenorphine for that purpose. Since 1993, total manufacture of the substance increased steadily and significantly. During the period 2003-2005, average global manufacture amounted to nearly 2 tons, double the amount manufactured in the late 1990s. The United Kingdom accounts for 75 per cent of global manufactures and is also the world’s leading exporter of Buprenorphine. France and Germany are the main importers of Buprenorphine, accounting for 60 per cent of global imports. Both France and Germany utilize Buprenorphine mainly for substitution treatment. 7 Codeine Phosphate. This drug is an effective opioid cough medicine in Western countries, which just became available in China in 2006. China Aoxing is developing an oral solution consisting of Guaifenesin, Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride and Codeine Phosphate. Codeine Phosphate is widely prescribed in continental Europe and other regions, including major markets like Australia, New Zealand and Canada. It is also available without prescription in combination preparations in limited doses in some countries. The Company has submitted its NDA application to the China SFDA and expects to receive final production approval in later 2010 assuming timely review process to be conducted by the government agency. It is estimated that cold and flu medicines account for approximately over USD$600 million in sales annually in China. Research and Development We have established in-house state-of-art facility which allows its multiple-disciplinary team to conduct pharmaceutical research and development. Our R&D team is consisting of chemists, biologists, pharmacologists and other technical expertise, and working on multiple projects arranging from early stage discovery to advanced clinical studies. Our team is capable of performing chemical synthesis, analytic analysis, pharmacology, toxicology as well as other technical tasks related to pharmaceutical industry. During our fiscal year 2009, we directly invested $722,567 in R&D efforts. Our R&D expenditures during fiscal 2008 and 2007 were $700,202 and $270,720, respectively. In addition, we rely on arrangements with universities, our collaborators, contract research organizations and clinical research sites for a significant portion of our product development efforts. The Market Global consumption of opioid analgesics for the treatment of moderate to severe pain (expressed in defined daily doses for statistical purposes) increased by more than two and one half times during the past decade. However, the increase in consumption occurred mainly in countries in Europe and North America. In 2006, for example, countries in those two regions together accounted for almost 96 per cent of global consumption of fentanyl, 89 per cent of global consumption of morphine and 97 per cent of global consumption of oxycodone. In 2006, the United States accounted for 99 per cent of global consumption of hydrocodone and 80 per cent of global consumption of oxycodone. In the United States, the consumption of hydrocodone increased by 70 per cent and the consumption of oxycodone by 55 per cent during the past five years. Global consumption of methadone has increased more than three times over the past decade. Methadone is used in several countries for the treatment of pain, but the sharp upward trend in its consumption is mainly attributable to its growing use in maintenance treatment related to opioid dependency. In 2006, the countries using the largest quantities of methadone were (in descending order) the United States, Spain, Germany, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Italy, the Islamic Republic of Iran and Canada; those countries together accounted for 83 per cent of global consumption. 8 The low levels of consumption of opioid analgesics for the treatment of pain in many countries, in particular in developing countries, continue to be a matter of serious concern. China entered the “Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, 1961” in 1985, which resulted in the gradual loosening of government policy toward the control of analgesic supplies. Before 2000, the average consumption of analgesics in China was less than 1% of the consumption in industrialized countries. There were only six varieties of analgesics available in production. By 2005, Chinese government had approved the production of 11 varieties of analgesics. In the near future, patients in China will find 30 varieties and over 80 specifications of different types of analgesics. For the foreseeable future, Hebei Aoxing intends to focus its marketing efforts exclusively in China. Because China is only now developing a domestic supply of bulk analgesics, the market potential is sufficient to fully occupy the Company’s efforts. Employees The Company currently has 360 employees. There are 35 employees in middle and senior management team, all having college degrees; 22 employees in the R&D department, among whom 10 employees have Master’s degrees. There are 230 workers at the production line and over half of them have at least a high school diploma. Item 1A Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects are subject to the following risks. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently foreseeable to us may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and our stockholders may lose all or part of their investment in the shares of our common stock. You should carefully consider the risks described below before buying our common stock. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, that event could cause the market value of our common stock to decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 9 The audit report on our financial statements says that there is uncertainty regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. The independent registered public accounting firm that audited our financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2009 determined that there is uncertainty regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. The auditors based the uncertainty on our history of operating losses, and on the fact that we had a substantial working capital deficit at June 30, 2009, even after giving effect to subsequent capital transactions. In order to alleviate that uncertainty, we will need to improve our balance sheet and achieve profitable operations. If we fail to make those improvements, our business will fail. Our sales revenue remains small and mainly derived from a few products and a disruption in, or a compromise of, our manufacturing or sales operations, or distribution channels related to any of these products could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We started to book our product revenues in late 2006, and only reached a small size of sales, including the contribution of our recently acquired LRT subsidiary for the year ended June 30, 2009, mainly derived from a few products approved by the China SFDA. We expect that these products will continue to account for a majority of our sales in the near future. Because of our dependence on a few products, any disruption in, or compromise of, our manufacturing operations, sales operations or distribution channels, relating to any of these products could result in our failure to meet shipping and delivery deadlines or meet quality standards, which in turn could result in the cancellation of purchase orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We lack sufficient capital to fully carry out our business plan. In order to make our operations cost-efficient, it is necessary that we expand our operations. At the present time, however, our capital resources are sparse. We are exploring various alternatives to improve our financial position and secure other sources of financing. Such possibilities include a new credit facility, new equity raise, new arrangements to license intellectual property, the sales of selected property rights. Intense competition from existing and new companies may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We compete with other companies, many of whom are developing, or can be expected to develop, products similar to ours. Some of our competitors are more established than we are, have greater brand recognition of products that compete with ours, have more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we presently possess and a larger customer base. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities and customer requirements and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to customers or adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer side effects, are less expensive or have more attractive product characteristics than our current products or products that we may develop in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not harm our business. 10 Most of our pipeline products contain narcotic ingredients. As a result of reports of misuse or abuse of prescription narcotics, the sale of such drugs may be subject to new regulation, which may prove difficult or expensive to comply with, and we and other pharmaceutical companies may face lawsuits. Most of our core pipeline products contain narcotic ingredients. Misuse or abuse of such drugs can lead to physical or other harm. For example, in the past two years, reportedly widespread misuse or abuse of OxyContin®, a product of Purdue Pharma L.P., or Purdue, containing the narcotic oxycodone, resulted in the strengthening of warnings on its labeling. In addition, we believe that Purdue, the manufacturer of OxyContin®, faces or did face numerous lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, related to OxyContin® misuse or abuse. We may be subject to litigation similar to the OxyContin® suits related to our generic version of oxycodone or any other narcotic containing product that we market. The China SFDA and Department of Health may impose new regulations concerning the research and development, manufacture, storage, transportation and sale of prescription narcotics. Such regulations may include new labeling requirements, the development and implementation of formal risk minimization action plans, restrictions on prescription and sale of these products. The Chinese government and its agencies could require companies to formulate risk evaluation and mitigation strategies to ensure a drug’s benefits outweigh its risks. In addition, the government and its agencies have authority to regulate distribution and may modify their regulations with respect to prescription narcotics in an attempt to curb abuse. In either case, any such new regulations or requirements may be difficult and expensive for us to comply with, may delay our introduction of new products, may adversely affect our net sales and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on our key management personnel and the loss of their services could adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management. We place substantial reliance upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers. The loss of services of any of these individuals or one or more other members of our senior management could delay or prevent the successful execution of our business objectives and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Replacing key employees may be difficult and costly and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to develop and commercialize products successfully. We do not maintain “key person” insurance policies on the lives of these individuals or the lives of any of our other employees. The Company has entered into Employment Agreements with these individuals. We will need to hire additional personnel as we expand our commercial activities. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management on acceptable terms in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel in our industry. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede these objectives. 11 We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete acquisitions or successfully integrate new businesses into our own. We intend to pursue opportunities to grow our business by acquiring businesses, products and technologies that are complementary or related to our existing product lines. Successful completion of an acquisition depends on a number of factors that are not entirely within our control, including our ability to negotiate acceptable terms, conclude satisfactory agreements and obtain all necessary regulatory approvals. We may not be able to locate suitable acquisition candidates at prices that we consider appropriate. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may face competition from other companies interested in acquiring the target company that have greater financial and other resources than we have. Acquisitions of businesses, products, technologies or other material operations may require debt financing or additional equity financing, resulting in leverage or dilution of ownership. Even if we complete one or more strategic transactions, we may be unable to integrate or coordinate successfully the personnel and operations of a business. Integration of acquired business operations could disrupt our business by diverting management away from day-to-day operations. The difficulties of integration may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. We also may not be able to maintain key employees or customers of an acquired business or realize cost efficiencies or synergies or other benefits we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates. In addition, we may incur non-recurring severance expenses, restructuring charges and change of control payments and may need to record write-downs from future impairments of intangible assets, which could reduce our future reported earnings. At times, acquisition candidates may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence prior to the acquisition. In addition to the above, acquisitions in China, including of state owned businesses, will be required to comply with laws of the PRC, to the extent applicable. There can be no assurance that any proposed acquisition will be able to comply with PRC requirements, rules and/or regulations, or that we will successfully obtain governmental approvals to the extent required, which may be necessary to consummate such acquisitions. We may face difficulties in implementing our growth strategy. Many obstacles to entering new markets exist, such as the costs associated with entering new markets, recruiting and retaining adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel, developing and implementing effective marketing efforts abroad, establishing and maintaining the appropriate regulatory compliance and maintaining attractive foreign exchange ratios. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our strategies or that our strategies, even if implemented, will lead to the successful achievement of our objectives. Our business plan and growth strategy is based on currently prevailing circumstances and the assumption that certain circumstances will or will not occur, as well as the inherent risks and uncertainties involved in various stages of development. We cannot, therefore, assure you that we will be able to successfully overcome such difficulties and continue to grow our business. 12 If we fail to manage our growth and current operations, we may not achieve future growth or our expected revenues. In order to maximize potential growth in our current and potential markets, we believe that we must expand our manufacturing and marketing operations. To this end, we are and expect to continue to substantially increase our employee headcount which will place a significant strain on our management and on our operational, accounting, and information systems. Our need to manage our operations and growth effectively requires us to continue to expend funds to improve our financial controls, operating procedures, management information systems, reporting systems and procedures to manage our increased operations. If we are unable to implement improvements to our management information and control systems successfully in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in our existing systems and controls, then management may receive inadequate information to manage our day-to-day operations. We will also need to effectively train, motivate and manage our employees. Our failure to manage our growth could disrupt our operations and ultimately prevent us from generating the revenues we expect. We may be unable to secure the government licenses that are necessary for us to engage in the sale of analgesic pharmaceuticals. The manufacture and marketing of narcotic drugs is highly regulated in China. Prior to marketing any of our products, we are required to satisfy several government protocols, and receive several licenses from the national and local governments. Obtaining these licenses can be expensive and it is usually time consuming. If we are unable to obtain the necessary licenses when we need to have them, our business plan will be delayed. If the delays prevent us from generating positive cash flow or introducing a significant number of products, our business may fail. We may have difficulty defending our intellectual property rights from infringement which may undermine our competitive position. We have been designing and developing new technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secret laws, and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Unauthorized use of our technology could damage our ability to compete effectively. We regard our service marks, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on trademark, patent and trade secret law, as well as confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary rights. Certain of our products have received trademark and patent protection in China. No assurance can be given that such patents and licenses will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or that such intellectual property rights will provide a competitive advantage to us. Our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Policing the unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. The outcome of such potential litigation may not be in our favor and any success in litigation may not be able to adequately protect our rights. Such litigation may be costly and divert management attention away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation would impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. Enforcement of judgments in China is uncertain and even if we are successful in such litigation it may not provide us with an effective remedy. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses from third-parties that we may need to conduct our business or that such licenses can be obtained at a reasonable cost. 13 In addition, third parties may file infringement claims against us asserting that we are infringing on their patents or trademarks. In the event that such claims are filed, regardless of the merit of such a claim, we may incur substantial costs and diversion of management as a result of our involvement in such proceedings. We currently sell our products in China. China will remain our primary market for the foreseeable future. If we expand into additional countries, our risk of intellectual property infringement may be heightened. Laws and enforcement mechanisms in other countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as China. The measures we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate, and we cannot give you any assurance that our competitors will not independently develop formulations and processes that are substantially equivalent or superior to our own or copy our products. We are dependent on third parties to supply all raw materials used in our products and to provide services for certain core aspects of our business. Any interruption or failure by these suppliers, distributors and collaboration partners to meet their obligations pursuant to various agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third parties to supply all raw materials used in our products. In addition, we rely on third party suppliers, distributors and collaboration partners to provide services for certain core aspects of our business, including manufacturing, warehousing, distribution, customer service support, medical affairs services, clinical studies, sales and other technical and financial services. All third party suppliers and contractors are subject to the China SFDA, and government agency requirements. Our business and financial viability are dependent on the regulatory compliance of these third parties, and on the strength, validity and terms of our various contracts with these third party manufacturers, distributors and collaboration partners. Any interruption or failure by these suppliers, distributors and collaboration partners to meet their obligations pursuant to various agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon third parties to provide us with various estimates as a basis for our financial reporting. While we undertake certain procedures to review the reasonability of this information, we cannot obtain absolute assurance over the accounting methods and controls over the information provided to us by third parties. As a result we are at risk of them providing us with erroneous data which could have a material adverse impact on our business. The government limits the availability of the active ingredients used in many of our current products and products in development and, as a result, our procurement quota may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. The Chinese government and SFDA regulate the access and supplies of chemical compounds in some of our current products and products in development, including oxycodone, codeine, buprenorphine, Tilidine. Consequently, their manufacture, shipment, storage, sale and use are subject to a high degree of regulation. 14 Furthermore, the government limits the availability of the active ingredients used in many of our current products and products in development and, as a result, our procurement quota of these active ingredients may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. We must annually apply to the government agencies for procurement quota in order to obtain these substances. Any delay or refusal by the agencies in establishing our procurement quota for controlled substances could delay or stop our clinical trials, product launches or could cause trade inventory disruptions for those products that have already been launched, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Timing and results of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of products as well as the SFDA’s approval of products are uncertain. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the sale of our products, , we must demonstrate through preclinical studies and clinical trials that the product is safe and effective for each intended use. Preclinical and clinical studies may fail to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of a product. A failure to demonstrate safety and efficacy would result in our failure to obtain regulatory approvals. The rate of patient enrollment sometimes delays completion of clinical studies. There is substantial competition to enroll patients in clinical, and such competition has delayed clinical development of our products in the past. Delays in planned patient enrollment can result in increased development costs and delays in regulatory approval. In addition, we rely on collaboration partners that may control or make changes in trial protocol and design enhancements that may also delay clinical trials. We cannot assure you that we will not experience delays or undesired results in these or any other of our clinical trials. We cannot assure you that the SFDA or other regulatory agencies will approve any products developed by us, on a timely basis, if at all, or, if granted, that such approval will not subject the marketing of our products to certain limits on indicated use. Any limitation on use imposed by the SFDA or delay in or failure to obtain SFDA approvals of products developed by us would adversely affect the marketing of these products and our ability to generate product revenue, as well as adversely affect the price of our common stock. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for certain generic products, we must conduct limited clinical or other trials to show comparability to the branded products. A failure to obtain satisfactory results in these trials would prevent us from obtaining required regulatory approvals. We do not have adequate product liability insurance and we could be exposed to substantial liability. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in adverse side effects. Adverse side effects, marketing or manufacturing problems pertaining to any of our products could result in: • decreased demand for our products; • adverse publicity resulting in injury to our reputation; • product liability claims and significant litigation costs; • substantial monetary awards to or costly settlements with consumers; • product recalls; • loss of revenues; or • the inability to commercialize future products. 15 These risks will exist for those products in clinical development and with respect to those products that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale or any product we may acquire. To date, we have not experienced any product liability claims. However, that does not mean that we will not have any such claims with respect to our products in the future. We do not carry product liability insurance. The lack of product liability insurance exposes us to risks associated with potential product liability claims, which can be significant. We have significant goodwill and other intangible assets. Consequently, potential impairment of goodwill and other intangibles may significantly impact our profitability. Goodwill and other intangibles represent a significant portion of our assets and stockholders’ equity. As of June 30, 2008, goodwill and other intangibles comprised approximately 36% of our total assets. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, prescribes a two-step method for determining goodwill impairment. In the first step, we determine the fair value of our one reporting unit. If the net book value of our reporting unit exceeds the fair value, we would then perform the second step of the impairment test which requires allocation of our reporting unit’s fair value to all of its assets and liabilities in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation, with any residual fair value being allocated to goodwill. An impairment charge will be recognized only when the implied fair value of our reporting unit’s goodwill is less than its carrying amount. Our other intangible assets, consisting of licenses and patents, are assessed for impairment, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. The impairment testing involves comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the forecasted undiscounted future cash flows of the product. In the event the carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted future cash flows of the product and the carrying value is not considered recoverable, impairment exists. An impairment loss is measured as the excess of the asset’s carrying value over its fair value, calculated using a discounted future cash flow method. An impairment loss would be recognized in net income in the period that the impairment occurs. Events giving rise to impairment are an inherent risk in the pharmaceutical industry and cannot be predicted. As a result of the significance of goodwill and other intangible assets, our results of operations and financial position in a future period could be negatively impacted should an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets occur. Our international operations require us to comply with a number of U.S. and international regulations. We need to comply with a number of international regulations in countries outside of the United States. In addition, we must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity or obtain any unfair advantage. Any failure by us to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that our employees and agents comply with the FCPA and applicable laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial penalties or restrictions on our ability to conduct business in certain foreign jurisdictions. The U.S. Department of The Treasury’s Office of Foreign Asset Control, or OFAC, administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions against targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals. As a result, we are restricted from entering into transactions with certain targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals except as permitted by OFAC which may reduce our future growth. 16 We may incur significant costs to ensure compliance with U.S. corporate governance and accounting requirements. We may incur significant costs associated with our public company reporting requirements, costs associated with newly applicable corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, and other rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission. We expect all of these applicable rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect that these applicable rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors, on committees of our board of directors or as executive officers. As a public company, we are required to comply with rules and regulations of the SEC, including expanded disclosure, accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. This will continue to require additional cost management resources. We will need to continue to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls as we grow to satisfy these reporting requirements. In addition, we may need to hire additional legal and accounting staff with appropriate experience and technical knowledge, and we cannot assure you that if additional staffing is necessary that we will be able to do so in a timely fashion. If we are unable to complete the required annual assessment as to the adequacy of our internal reporting or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in the future, we could incur significant costs to become compliant. We continuously evaluate and monitor developments with respect to Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley and other applicable rules, however, we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. There could be changes in government regulations in China toward the pharmaceutical industries that may adversely affect our business. The manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products in China is heavily regulated by many state, provincial and local authorities. These regulations significantly increase the difficulty and costs involved in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for marketing new and existing products. Our future growth and profitability depend to a large extent on our ability to obtain regulatory approvals. Additionally, the law could change so as to prohibit the use of certain pharmaceuticals. If one of our products becomes prohibited, this change would cease the productivity of that product. The China National Development and Reform Commission, or CNDRC, has recently implemented price adjustments on many marketed pharmaceutical products. We have no control over such governmental policies, which may impact the pricing and profitability of our products. 17 The State Food and Drug Administration of China requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to obtain Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP, certifications. We have received our certifications. However, should we fail to receive or maintain the GMP certifications in the future, we would no longer be able to manufacture pharmaceuticals in China, and our businesses would be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, the laws and regulations regarding acquisitions in the pharmaceutical industry in China may change, which could significantly impact our ability to grow through acquisitions. Certain political and economic considerations relating to China could adversely affect our company. China is transitioning from a planned economy to a market economy. While the PRC government has pursued economic reforms since its adoption of the open-door policy in 1978, a large portion of the Chinese economy is still operating under five-year plans and annual state plans. Through these plans and other economic measures, such as control on foreign exchange, taxation and restrictions on foreign participation in the domestic market of various industries, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the economy. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the PRC government are unprecedented or experimental, and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of such reforms. This refining and readjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations or future business development. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in China’s economic and social conditions as well as by changes in the policies of the PRC government, such as changes in laws and regulations, or the official interpretation thereof, which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the interest rate or method of taxation, and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. The pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, which creates uncertainty about our ability to bring new products to market and imposes substantial compliance costs on our business. The China SFDA as well as Department of Health impose substantial requirements on the development, manufacture, labeling, sale, distribution, marketing, advertising, promotion and introduction of therapeutic narcotic pharmaceutical products through lengthy and detailed laboratory and clinical testing and other costly and time-consuming procedures. The submission of a drug application alone does not guarantee that the SFDA will grant approval to market the product. Satisfaction of SFDA requirements typically takes a number of years, varies substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the pharmaceutical product and is subject to uncertainty. The drug approval process varies in time, could take several years from the date of application. The timing for the approval process is difficult to estimate and can vary significantly. 18 The current SFDA standards of approving pharmaceutical products are more stringent than those that were applied in the past. These standards were not applied to many established products currently on the market, including certain narcotics products. We cannot assure you that the SFDA or other regulatory agencies will approve any products developed by us, on a timely basis, if at all, or, if granted, that approval will not entail limiting the indicated uses for which we may market the product, which could limit the potential market for any of these products. The recent nature and uncertain application of many PRC laws applicable to us create an uncertain environment for business operations and they could have a negative effect on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and has since introduced many laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in China and to regulate foreign investment. Progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. The promulgation of new laws, changes of existing laws and the abrogation of local regulations by national laws could have a negative impact on our business and business prospects. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. Currency conversion and exchange rate volatility could adversely affect our financial condition and the value of our common stock. The PRC government imposes control over the conversion of Renminbi, or RMB, into foreign currencies. Under the current unified floating exchange rate system, the People’s Bank of China publishes an exchange rate, which we refer to as the PBOC exchange rate, based on the previous day’s dealings in the inter-bank foreign exchange market. Financial institutions authorized to deal in foreign currency may enter into foreign exchange transactions at exchange rates within an authorized range above or below the PBOC exchange rate according to market conditions. Pursuant to the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations of the PRC issued by the State Council which came into effect on April 1, 1996, and the Regulations on the Administration of Foreign Exchange Settlement, Sale and Payment of the PRC which came into effect on July 1, 1996, regarding foreign exchange control, conversion of RMB into foreign exchange by Foreign Investment Enterprises, or FIEs, for use on current account items, including the distribution of dividends and profits to foreign investors, is permissible. FIEs are permitted to convert their after-tax dividends and profits to foreign exchange and remit such foreign exchange to their foreign exchange bank accounts in China. Conversion of RMB into foreign currencies for capital account items, including direct investment, loans, and security investment, is still under certain restrictions. On January 14, 1997, the State Council amended the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations and added, among other things, an important provision, which provides that the PRC government shall not impose restrictions on recurring international payments and transfers under current account items. 19 Enterprises in China, including FIEs, which require foreign exchange for transactions relating to current account items, if within a certain limited amount may, without approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, effect payment from their foreign exchange account or convert and pay at the designated foreign exchange banks by providing valid receipts and proofs. Convertibility of foreign exchange in respect of capital account items, such as direct investment and capital contribution, is still subject to certain restrictions, and prior approval from the SAFE or its relevant branches must be sought. Between 1994 and 2004, the exchange rate for RMB against the U.S. dollar remained relatively stable, most of the time in the region of approximately RMB8.28 to US$1.00. However, in 2005, the Chinese government announced that it would begin pegging the exchange rate of the RMB against a number of currencies, rather than just the U.S. dollar. As our operations are primarily in China, any significant revaluation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, financial condition and the value of our common stock. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for our operations, appreciation of this currency against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the value of our common stock. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the RMB, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as 2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by the PRC government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. While inflation has been more moderate since 1995, high inflation may in the future cause the PRC government to impose controls on credit or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforcement of legal judgments upon us and our officers and certain of our directors because they reside outside the United States. As our operations are presently based in China and our officers and certain of our directors reside in China, service of process on us and our officers and certain directors may be difficult to effect within the United States. Also, our main assets are located in China and any judgment obtained in the United States against us may not be enforceable outside the United States. Any future outbreak of avian influenza, or the Asian bird flu, or any other epidemic in China could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Since mid-December 2003, a growing number of Asian countries have reported outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza in chickens and ducks. Since all of our operations are in China, an outbreak of the Asian Bird Flu in China in the future may disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, a new outbreak of Asian Bird Flu, or any other epidemic, may reduce the level of economic activity in affected areas, which may lead to a reduction in our revenue if our clients cancel existing contracts or defer future expenditures. In addition, health or other government regulations may require temporary closure of our offices, or the offices of our customers or partners, which will severely disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be affected by unexpected changes in regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We are subject to many general regulations governing business entities and their behavior in China and in other jurisdictions in which we have operations. In particular, we are subject to laws and regulations covering food, dietary supplements and pharmaceutical products. Such regulations typically deal with licensing, approvals and permits. Any change in product licensing may make our products more or less available on the market. Such changes may have a positive or negative impact on the sale of our products and may directly impact the associated costs in compliance and our operational and financial viability. Such regulatory environment also covers any existing or potential trade barriers in the form of import tariffs and taxes that may make it difficult for us to import our products to certain countries and regions, such as Japan, South Korea and Hong Kong, which would limit our international expansion. Most of our assets are located in China, any dividends or proceeds from liquidation are subject to the approval of the relevant Chinese government agencies. Our assets are predominantly located inside China. Under the laws governing FIEs in China, dividend distribution and liquidation are allowed but subject to special procedures under the relevant laws and rules. Any dividend payment will be subject to the decision of the board of directors and subject to foreign exchange rules governing such repatriation. Any liquidation is subject to both the relevant government agency’s approval and supervision as well the foreign exchange control. This may generate additional risk for our investors in case of dividend payment or liquidation. There have been recent incidents in which patients have experienced severe adverse reactions following the use of pharmaceutical products manufactured in China. There have been recent incidents reported in the Chinese media of a significant number of patients experiencing severe adverse health consequences following their use of pharmaceutical products manufactured by certain pharmaceutical companies in China. A number of patients have become ill and a number of fatalities have been reported. For example, several deaths were caused by drugs sold by the Second Pharmaceutical Factory of Qiqihaer, a Chinese drug manufacturer, in May 2006. Concerns over the safety of pharmaceutical products manufactured in China could have an adverse effect on the sale of such products, including products manufactured by us. If in the future we become involved in incidents of the type described above, such problems could severely and adversely impact our product sales and reputation. 21 Anti-corruption measures taken by the government to correct corruptive practices in the pharmaceutical industry could adversely affect our sales and reputation. The government has recently taken anti-corruption measures to correct corrupt practices. In the pharmaceutical industry, such practices include, among others, acceptance of kickbacks, bribery or other illegal gains or benefits by the hospitals and medical practitioners from pharmaceutical distributors in connection with the prescription of a certain drug. Substantially all of our sales to our ultimate customers are conducted through third-party distributors. We have no control over our third-party distributors, who may engage in corrupt practices to promote our products. While we maintain strict anti-corruption policies applicable to our internal sales force and third-party distributors, these policies may not be effective. If any of our third-party distributors engage in such practices and the government takes enforcement action, our products may be seized and our own practices, and involvement in the distributors’ practices may be investigated. If this occurs, our sales and reputation may be materially and adversely affected. Our common stock price may be extremely volatile, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for the stock. Our common stock price has experienced large fluctuations. In addition, the trading prices of stocks for companies in our industry in general have experienced extreme price fluctuations in recent years. Any negative change in the public’s perception of the prospects of companies in our industry could depress our stock price regardless of our results of operations. Other broad market and industry factors may decrease the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our performance. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions such as terrorism, military conflict, recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, may also decrease the trading price of our common stock. In addition, our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, including: • changes in laws or regulations applicable to our products; • period to period fluctuations in our operating results; • announcements of new technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • conditions or trends in our industry; • changes in the market valuations of other companies in our industry; • developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulations; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; • additional sales of our common stock by us; and • sales and distributions of our common stock by our stockholders. 22 In the past, stockholders have often instituted securities class action litigation after periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. If a stockholder files a securities class action suit against us, we would incur substantial legal fees and our management’s attention and resources would be diverted from operating our business in order to respond to the litigation. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management and financial controls in China. The People’s Republic of China has only recently begun to adopt the management and financial reporting concepts and practices with which investors in the United States are familiar. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining employees in China who have the experience necessary to implement the kind of management and financial controls that are expected of a United States public company. If we cannot establish such controls, we may experience difficulty in collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet U.S. standards. We may never pay any dividends to our stockholders. We have not paid any cash dividends on shares of our common stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and future earnings, if any, to support our operations and finance the growth and development of our business. Our board of directors does not intend to distribute dividends in the foreseeable future. The declaration, payment and amount of any future dividends, if any, will be made at the discretion of the board of directors, and will depend upon, among other things, the results of our operations, cash flows and financial condition, operating and capital requirements, and other factors the board of directors considers relevant. There is no assurance that future dividends will be paid, and if dividends are paid, there is no assurance with respect to the amount of any such dividend. Capital outflow policies in China may hamper our ability to pay dividends to shareholders in the United States. The People’s Republic of China has adopted currency and capital transfer regulations. These regulations require that we comply with complex regulations for the movement of capital. Although Chinese governmental policies were introduced in 1996 to allow the convertibility of RMB into foreign currency for current account items, conversion of RMB into foreign exchange for capital items, such as foreign direct investment, loans or securities, requires the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. We may be unable to obtain all of the required conversion approvals for our operations, and Chinese regulatory authorities may impose greater restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB in the future. Because most of our future revenues will be in RMB, any inability to obtain the requisite approvals or any future restrictions on currency exchanges will limit our ability to fund our business activities outside China or to pay dividends to our shareholders. 23 Our business development would be hindered if we lost the services of our Chairman. Zhenjiang Yue is the Chief Executive Officer of China Aoxing and of its operating subsidiary, Hebei Aoxing Pharmaceutical Group. Mr. Yue is responsible for strategizing not only our business plan but also the means of financing it. If Mr. Yue were to leave Hebei Aoxing or become unable to fulfill his responsibilities, our business would be imperiled. At the very least, there would be a delay in the development of Hebei Aoxing until a suitable replacement for Mr. Yue could be retained. China Aoxing is not likely to hold annual shareholder meetings in the next few years. Management does not expect to hold annual meetings of shareholders in the next few years, due to the expense involved. The current members of the Board of Directors were appointed to that position by the previous directors. If other directors are added to the Board in the future, it is likely that the current directors will appoint them. As a result, the shareholders of China Aoxing will have no effective means of exercising control over the operations of the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. Item 