ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results (Cautionary Statements Under Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) Forward-Looking Statements This annual report on Form 10-K contains certain “forward-looking statements,” as such term is defined in Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These statements set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will” and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future events or future operating or financial performance or strategies. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: • our services, including the development and deployment of data products and services based on IP and other technologies and strategies to expand our targeted customer base and broaden our sales channels; • the operation of our network, including with respect to the development of IP-based services; • our liquidity and financial resources, including anticipated capital expenditures, funding of capital expenditures, anticipated levels of indebtedness, and the ability to raise capital though financing activities; • trends related to and management’s expectations regarding results of operations, revenues from existing and new lines of business and sales channels, and cash flows, including but not limited to those statements set forth below in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations;” and • sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements. 17 Table of Contents We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties related to our businesses. These are factors that we believe, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by Section 21E of the Exchange Act. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Our forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of factors that could cause actual results or events to differ significantly from current beliefs and expectations. In addition to the risk factors identified under the captions below, the operation and results of our business are subject to risks and uncertainties identified elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K as well as general risks and uncertainties such as those relating to general economic conditions and demand for telecommunications services. Risks Related to Liquidity and Financial Resources We incurred substantial operating losses in 2005 and will not generate funds from operations sufficient to meet all of our cash requirements in the short term. For each period since inception, we have incurred substantial operating losses. For 2005, we posted a net operating loss of approximately $262 million and utilized net cash and cash equivalents of $141 million. In the short term, our existing and projected operations are not expected to generate cash flows sufficient to meet our cash needs. We expect our available liquidity to decline substantially during the first half of 2006 due to our cash flow requirements, including operating losses, debt service and capital expenditures. Based on our business projections, our expectation is that unrestricted cash on hand, together with proceeds from sales of IRUs and marketable securities and previously committed lease financing, will provide us with the liquidity needed to fund our operations until the point in time during the second half of 2006 when we expect to start generating positive cash flow. However, we can provide no assurances in this regard. The covenants in our debt instruments restrict our financial and operational flexibility. The indenture governing GCL’s $250 million aggregate original principal amount of 4.7% Senior Secured Mandatory Convertible Notes due 2008 (the “Convertible Notes”) contains covenants and events of default that are customary for high-yield senior notes. These provisions include: (1) limitations on the ability of GCL and its subsidiaries (other than GCUK) to incur indebtedness or guarantee other indebtedness; (2) limitations on dividend and other payments to holders of equity and subordinated debt; (3) limitations on investments; (4) limitations on sale and leaseback transactions; (5) limitations on asset sales, consolidations, and mergers; (6) limitations on creating or assuming liens; and (7) limitations on transactions with affiliates. These provisions have limited exceptions, baskets and carve-outs. In particular, subject to certain conditions, the limitation on indebtedness covenant permits the incurrence of (1) up to $150 million in additional debt under one or more working capital or receivables facilities (subject to, among other things, an intercreditor agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Convertible Notes holder governing intercreditor matters such as the terms of the subordination of certain liens securing the Convertible Notes to liens securing such facility); (2) up to $50 million in purchase money debt or capital lease obligations (which exception limit is currently the subject of discussions with the note holder regarding the requested increase thereof); (3) up to $50 million of additional indebtedness not otherwise permitted to be incurred; and (4) additional subordinated debt if we satisfy the leverage ratio specified in the indenture, although we do not expect to satisfy that ratio for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to deliver common shares at the time of voluntary or mandatory conversion of the Convertible Notes as the result of any law, rule or regulation or administrative proclamation or any other reason, we must pay accrued interest on the Convertible Notes in cash at the annual rate of 11% (calculated retroactively from the December 23, 2004 issue date). If such conversion restriction were to exist on the maturity date of the Convertible Notes, we would also be required to redeem the notes for $250 million cash plus accrued interest at 11% (calculated retroactively from December 23, 2004). 18 Table of Contents The indenture governing the approximately $404 million original aggregate principal amount of senior secured notes due 2014 (the “GCUK Notes”) issued by a subsidiary of our Global Crossing (UK) Telecommunications Limited subsidiary (together with its subsidiaries, “GCUK”) limits GCUK’s ability to, among other things: (1) incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; (2) pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem its stock; (3) make investments or other restricted payments; (4) create liens; (5) enter into certain transactions with affiliates; (6) enter into agreements that restrict the ability of its material subsidiaries to pay dividends; and (7) consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of its assets. All of these limitations are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions set forth in the indenture. In addition, the GCUK Notes indenture requires GCUK annually to make an offer to purchase a portion of such notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of their principal amount using 50% of “Designated GCUK Cash Flow” from that period. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” The above financing arrangements are secured by liens on substantially all of our assets. A default under these financing agreements would allow the noteholders to accelerate our repayment obligations and foreclose on our assets, which would adversely affect our rights under other commercial agreements. Our international corporate structure limits the availability of our consolidated cash resources for intercompany funding purposes and reduces our financial restructuring flexibility. As a holding company, all of our revenues are generated by our subsidiaries and substantially all of our assets are owned by our subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent upon dividends and inter-company transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other payment obligations. Our subsidiaries are incorporated and are operating in various jurisdictions throughout the world. Some of our subsidiaries have cash on hand that exceeds their immediate requirements but that cannot be distributed or loaned to us or our other subsidiaries to fund our or their operations due to contractual restrictions or legal constraints related to the lack of retained earnings or the solvency of such entities. These restrictions could cause us or certain of our other subsidiaries to become and remain illiquid while other subsidiaries have sufficient liquidity to meet their liquidity needs. In particular, GCUK serves as a source of funding for us and our other subsidiaries, and we expect to continue to use GCUK as a source of funding, subject to the covenants in the GCUK Notes and restrictions under English law. Because of losses that GCUK has accumulated, it will not be possible for GCUK to pay dividends to its parent company, an indirect subsidiary of ours, until such time as these losses have been reduced and thereafter only to the extent of any available profit. Until that time, any funds to be made available by GCUK to us and our other subsidiaries will be made through inter-company loans. GCUK’s ability to make loans to us and our other subsidiaries, as well as its ability to pay dividends even after the point at which it is legally permitted to do so, is restricted by the indenture governing the GCUK Notes and by English law. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” A default by any of our subsidiaries under any capital lease obligation or debt obligation totaling more than $2.5 million, as well as the bankruptcy or insolvency of any of our subsidiaries, could trigger cross-default provisions under the indenture for the Convertible Notes and may trigger cross-default provisions under any working capital facility or other financing that we may arrange. This could lead the applicable debt holders to accelerate the maturity of their relevant debt instruments and foreclose on our assets, which would adversely affect our rights under other commercial agreements and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We cannot predict our future tax liabilities. If we become subject to increased levels of taxation, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Global Crossing consists of a group of legal entities incorporated and operating in jurisdictions throughout the world, thereby subjecting us to multiple sets of complex and varying tax laws and rules. We cannot predict 19 Table of Contents the amount of future tax liabilities to which we may become subject. Any increase in the amount of taxation incurred as a result of our operations or due to legislative or regulatory changes could result in a material adverse effect on our net loss and, accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations. Certain unsettled tax liabilities may have survived our bankruptcy proceedings. While we believe that our current provisions are reasonable and appropriate, we cannot be assured that these items will be settled for the amounts accrued or that additional exposures will not be identified in the future. Risks Related to Our Operations Our rights to the use of the dark fiber that make up our network may be affected by the financial health of our fiber providers. The majority of our North American network and some of the other transmission facilities comprising our global network are held by us through long-term leases or IRU agreements with various companies that provide us access to fiber owned by them. A bankruptcy or financial collapse of one of these fiber providers could result in a loss of our rights under such leases and agreements with the provider, which in turn could have a negative impact on the integrity of our network and ultimately on our results of operations. Since 2001, there has been increasing financial pressure on some of our fiber providers as part of the overall weakening of the telecommunications market. Several such providers have sought bankruptcy protection. To our knowledge, the rights of the holder of such rights in strands of fiber in the event of bankruptcy have not been specifically addressed by the judiciary at the state or federal level in the U.S. or in most of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and, therefore, our rights with respect to dark fiber agreements under such circumstances are unclear. We may not be able to continue to connect our network to incumbent carriers’ networks or maintain Internet peering arrangements on favorable terms. We must be party to interconnection agreements with incumbent carriers and certain independent carriers in order to connect our customers to the public telephone network. If we are unable to renegotiate or maintain interconnection agreements in all of our markets on favorable terms, it could adversely affect our ability to provide services in the affected markets. Peering agreements with Internet service providers allow us to access the Internet and exchange transit for free with these providers. Depending on the relative size of the carriers involved, these exchanges may be made without settlement charge. Recently, many Internet service providers that previously offered peering have reduced or eliminated peering relationships or are establishing new, more restrictive criteria for peering and an increasing number of these service providers are seeking to impose charges for transit. Increases in costs associated with Internet and exchange transit could have a material adverse effect on our margins for our products that require Internet access. We may not be able to renegotiate or maintain peering arrangements on favorable terms, which would impair our growth and performance. The Network Security Agreement imposes significant requirements on us. The inadvertent violation of the agreement could have severe consequences. The Network Security Agreement imposes significant requirements on us related to information storage and management; traffic routing and management; physical, logical, and network security arrangements; personnel screening and training; corporate governance practices; and other matters. While we expect to comply fully with our obligations under the Network Security Agreement, it is impossible to eliminate completely the risk of a violation of the agreement. The consequences of a violation of the Network Security Agreement could be severe, potentially including the revocation of our FCC licenses in the U.S., which would result in the cessation of our U.S. operations and would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents It is expensive and difficult to switch new customers to our network, and lack of cooperation of incumbent carriers can slow the new customer connection process. It is expensive and difficult for us to switch a new customer to our network because: • we charge the potential customer certain one-time installation fees, and, although the fees are generally less than the cost to install a new customer, they may act as a deterrent to becoming our customer; and • we require cooperation from the incumbent carrier in instances where there is no direct connection between the customer and our network, which can complicate and add to the time that it takes to provision a new customer’s service. Many of our principal competitors, the domestic and international incumbent carriers, are already established providers of local telephone services to all or virtually all telephone subscribers within their respective service areas. Their physical connections from their premises to those of their customers are expensive and difficult to duplicate. To complete the new customer provisioning process, we rely on the incumbent carrier to process certain information. The incumbent carriers have a financial interest in retaining their customers, which could reduce their willingness to cooperate with our new customer provisioning requests, thereby adversely impacting our ability to compete and grow revenues. Further consolidation of incumbent carriers with other telecommunications service providers may make these problems more acute. The operation, administration, maintenance and repair of our systems are subject to risks that could lead to disruptions in our services and the failure of our systems to operate as intended for their full design life. Each of our systems is subject to the risks inherent in large-scale, complex fiber-optic telecommunications systems. The operation, administration, maintenance and repair of our systems require the coordination and integration of sophisticated and highly specialized hardware and software technologies and equipment located throughout the world. Our systems may not continue to function as expected in a cost-effective manner. The failure of the hardware or software to function as required could render a cable system unable to perform at design specifications. Each of our subsea systems has a design life of generally 25 years, while each of our terrestrial systems has a design life of at least 20 years. The economic lives of these systems, however, may be shorter than their design lives, and we cannot provide any assurances as to the actual useful life of any of these systems. A number of factors will ultimately affect the useful life of each of our systems, including, among other things, quality of construction, unexpected damage or deterioration and technological or economic obsolescence. Interruptions in service or performance problems, for whatever reason, could undermine confidence in our services and cause us to lose customers or make it more difficult to attract new ones. In addition, because many of our services are critical to our customers’ businesses, a significant interruption in service could result in lost profits or other loss to customers. Although we attempt to disclaim liability for these losses in our service agreements, a court might not enforce a limitation on liability under certain conditions, which could expose us to financial loss. In addition, we often provide customers with guaranteed service level commitments. If we are unable to meet these guaranteed service level commitments for whatever reason, we may be obligated to provide our customers with credits, generally in the form of free service for a short period of time, which could negatively affect our operating results. The failure of our operations support systems to perform as we expect could impair our ability to retain customers and obtain new customers, or provision their services, or result in increased capital expenditures, which would adversely affect our revenues or capital resources. Our operations support systems are an important factor in our success. Critical information systems used in daily operations perform sales and order entry, provisioning, billing and accounts receivable functions, and cost of service verification and payment functions, particularly with respect to facilities leased from incumbent 21 Table of Contents carriers. If any of these systems fail or do not perform as expected, it would adversely affect our ability to process orders and provision sales, and to bill for services efficiently and accurately, all of which could cause us to suffer customer dissatisfaction, loss of business, loss of revenue or the inability to add customers on a timely basis, any of which would adversely affect our revenues. In addition, system failure or performance issues could have an adverse impact on our ability to effectively audit and dispute invoicing and provisioning data provided by service providers from whom we lease facilities. Furthermore, processing higher volumes of data or additionally automating system features could result in system breakdowns and delays and additional unanticipated expense to remedy the defect or to replace the defective system with an alternative system. Intellectual property and proprietary rights of others could prevent us from using necessary technology. While we do not believe that there exists any technology patented by others, or other intellectual property owned by others, that is necessary for us to provide our services and that is not now subject to a license allowing us to use it, there can be no assurances in this regard. If such intellectual property is owned by others and not licensed by us, we would have to negotiate a license for the use of that property. We may not be able to negotiate such a license at a price that is acceptable or at all. This could force us to cease offering products and services incorporating such property, thereby adversely affecting operating results. We have substantial international operations and face political, legal, tax, regulatory and other risks from our operations in foreign jurisdictions. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from international operations and have substantial physical assets in several jurisdictions along our routes, including countries in Latin America, Asia and Europe. In addition, we lease capacity and obtain services from carriers in those and other regions. As a result our business is subject to particular risks from operating in some of these areas, including: • uncertain and rapidly changing political, regulatory and economic conditions, including the possibility of civil unrest, vandalism affecting cable assets, terrorism, armed conflict or the seizure or nationalizing of private property; • unexpected changes in regulatory environments and trade barriers; • exposure to new or different accounting, legal, tax and regulatory standards; • burdensome tax, customs or regulatory assessments based on new or differing interpretations of law or regulations; and • difficulties in staffing and managing operations consistently through our several operating areas. In addition, managing operations in multiple jurisdictions may place further strain on our ability to manage growth. Many of our customers deal predominantly in foreign currencies, so we may be exposed to exchange rate risks and our net loss may suffer due to currency translations. Many of our current and prospective customers derive their revenue in currencies other than U.S. dollars but are invoiced by us in U.S. dollars. The obligations of customers with substantial revenue in foreign currencies may be subject to unpredictable and indeterminate increases in the event that such currencies depreciate in value relative to the U.S. dollar. Furthermore, such customers may become subject to exchange control regulations restricting the conversion of their revenue currencies into U.S. dollars. In either event, the affected customers may not be able to pay us in U.S. dollars. In addition, where we invoice for our services in currencies other than U.S. dollars, our net loss may suffer due to currency translations in the event that such currencies depreciate relative to the U.S. dollar and we do not elect to enter into currency hedging arrangements in respect of those payment obligations. Declines in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our ability to market our services to customers whose revenues are denominated in those currencies. 22 Table of Contents Many of our most important government customers have the right to terminate their contracts with us if a change of control occurs or to reduce the services they purchase from us. Many of GCUK’s government contracts contain broad change of control provisions that permit the customer to terminate the contract if GCUK undergoes a change of control. A termination in many instances gives rise to other rights of the government customer, including, in some cases, the right to purchase some of GCUK’s assets used in servicing those contracts. Some change of control provisions may be triggered when any lender (other than a bank lender in the normal course of business) or a noteholder or group of noteholders would have the right to control GCUK or the majority of GCUK’s assets upon any event, including upon bankruptcy. If GCUK’s noteholders have the right to control GCUK or the majority of GCUK’s assets upon such event, it could be deemed to be a change of control of GCUK. In addition, if ST Telemedia’s ownership interest in Global Crossing falls below certain levels, it could be deemed to be an indirect change of control of GCUK. This could include a situation in which (assuming the sale or transfer of its equity interests or their dilution) ST Telemedia sells or transfers all or a portion of the Convertible Notes. In addition, most of GCUK’s government contracts do not include significant minimum usage guarantees. Thus, the applicable customers could simply choose not to use GCUK’s services and move to another telecommunications provider. If any of GCUK’s significant government contracts were terminated as a result of a change of control or otherwise, or if the applicable customers were to significantly reduce the services that they purchase under these contracts, we could experience a material and adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Competition and Our Industry The prices that we charge for our services have been decreasing, and we expect that such decreases will continue over time. We expect price decreases in our industry to continue as we and our competitors increase transmission capacity on existing and new networks. Accordingly, our historical revenues are not indicative of future revenues based on comparable traffic volumes. If the prices for our services decrease for whatever reason and we are unable to increase volumes through additional services or otherwise, our operating results would be adversely affected. Similarly, future price decreases could be greater than we are anticipating. Technological advances and regulatory changes are eroding traditional barriers between formerly distinct telecommunications markets, which could increase the competition we face and put downward pressure on prices. New technologies, such as VoIP, and regulatory changes, particularly those permitting incumbent local telephone companies to provide long distance services, are blurring the distinctions between traditional and emerging telecommunications markets. In addition, the increasing importance of data services has focused the attention of most telecommunications companies on this growing sector. As a result, a competitor in any of our business areas is potentially a competitor in our other business areas, which could impair our prospects, put downward pressure on prices and adversely affect our operating results. We face competition in each of our markets from the incumbent carrier in that market and from more recent market entrants, including long distance carriers seeking to enter, reenter or expand entry into the local exchange marketplace and incumbent carriers seeking to enter into the long distance market after having been granted the regulatory authority to do so. This competition places downward pressure on prices for local and long distance telephone service and data services, which can adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we could face competition from other companies, such as other competitive carriers, cable television companies, microwave carriers, wireless telephone system operators and private networks built by large end-users or municipalities. If we are not able to compete effectively with these industry participants, our operating results would be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents Many of our competitors have superior resources, which could place us at a cost and price disadvantage. Many of our existing and potential competitors have significant competitive advantages, including greater market presence, name recognition and financial, technological and personnel resources, superior engineering and marketing capabilities, more ubiquitous network reach, and significantly larger installed customer bases. As a result, many of our competitors can raise capital at a lower cost than we can, and they may be able to adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities (including regulatory changes) more readily, and devote greater resources to the development, marketing and sale of products and services than we can. Also, our competitors’ greater brand name recognition may require us to price our services at lower levels in order to win business. Our competitors’ financial advantages may give them the ability to reduce their prices for an extended period of time if they so choose. Many of these advantages are expected to increase with the recent trend toward consolidation by large industry participants. Our selection of technology could prove to be incorrect, ineffective or unacceptably costly, which would limit our ability to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs, emerging competition and frequent new product and service introductions. The future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to adapt to these factors in a timely and cost-effective manner. If we do not replace or upgrade technology and equipment that becomes obsolete, or if the technology choices we make prove to be incorrect, ineffective or unacceptably costly, we will be unable to compete effectively because we will not be able to meet the expectations of our customers, which could cause our results to suffer. The introduction of new technologies may reduce the cost of services similar to those that we plan to provide. As a result, our most significant competitors in the future may be new entrants to the telecommunications industry or existing providers that upgrade equipment with new technologies. These providers may not be burdened by an installed base of outdated equipment and, therefore, may be able to respond more quickly to customer demands. Our operations are subject to regulation in the U.S. and abroad and require us to obtain and maintain a number of governmental licenses and permits. If we fail to comply with those regulatory requirements or obtain and maintain those licenses and permits, we may not be able to conduct our business. Moreover, those regulatory requirements could change in a manner that significantly increases our costs or otherwise adversely affects our operations. In the U.S., our intrastate, interstate, and international telecommunications systems and services are subject to regulation at the federal, state, and local levels. We also have facilities and provide services in numerous countries in Europe, Latin America, and the Asia/Pacific region. Our operations in those countries are subject to regulation at the regional level (e.g., European Union), the national level and, in some cases, at the state, provincial, and local levels. These regulatory requirements subject us to the following risks: • Our interstate and international operations in the U.S. are governed by the Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the 1996 Act. There are several ongoing proceedings at the FCC and in the federal courts regarding the implementation of various aspects of the 1996 Act. The outcomes of these proceedings may affect the manner in which we are permitted to provide our services in the U.S. and may have a material adverse effect on our operations. • The intrastate activities of our local telephone service companies are regulated by the states in which they do business. A number of states in which we operate are conducting proceedings related to the provision of services in a competitive telecommunications environment. These proceedings may affect the manner in which we are permitted to provide our services in one or more states and may have a material adverse effect on our operations. 24 Table of Contents • Our operations outside the U.S. are governed by the laws of the countries in which we operate. The regulation of telecommunications networks and services outside the U.S. varies widely. In some countries, the range of services that we are legally permitted to provide may be limited. In other countries, existing telecommunications legislation is in the process of development, is unclear or inconsistent, or is applied in an unequal or discriminatory fashion, or inadequate judicial, regulatory or other forum are available to address these inadequacies or disputes. Our inability or failure to comply with the telecommunications laws and regulations of one or more of the countries in which we operate could result in the temporary or permanent suspension of operations in one or more countries. We also may be prohibited from entering certain countries at all or from providing all of our services in one or more countries. In addition, many of the countries in which we operate are conducting regulatory or other proceedings that will affect the implementation of their telecommunications legislation. We cannot be certain of the outcome of these proceedings. These proceedings may affect the manner in which we are permitted to provide our services in these countries and may have a material adverse effect on our operations. • In the ordinary course of constructing our networks and providing our services we are required to obtain and maintain a variety of telecommunications and other licenses and authorizations in the countries in which we operate. We also must comply with a variety of regulatory obligations. Our failure to obtain or maintain necessary licenses and authorizations, or to comply with the obligations imposed upon license holders in one or more countries, may result in sanctions, including the revocation of authority to provide services in one or more countries. • The regulatory requirements to which we are subject could change in a manner that significantly increases our costs or otherwise adversely affects our operations. Attempts to limit the basic competitive framework of the 1996 Act could interfere with the successful implementation of our business plan. Successful implementation of our business plan is predicated on the assumption that the basic framework for competition in the local exchange services market established by the 1996 Act will remain in place. We expect that there will be attempts to modify, limit or eliminate this basic framework through a combination of federal legislation, new rulemaking proceedings by the FCC and challenges to existing and proposed regulations by the RBOCs. It is not possible to predict the nature of any such action or its impact on our business and operation, though the effect of certain changes could be material. Potential regulation of Internet service providers could adversely affect our operations. The FCC has to date treated Internet service providers as providers of information services as defined in the 1996 Act. Information service providers are currently exempt from federal and state regulations governing common carriers, arguably including the obligation to pay access charges and contribute to the Federal universal service funds. The FCC is currently examining the broader issue of intercarrier compensation. If the FCC were to determine that service related to Internet service providers, or the services they provide, are subject to FCC regulation, including the payment of access charges and contribution to the Federal universal service funds, it could significantly increase our cost structure and have a material adverse effect on our business. The requirement that we obtain and maintain permits and rights-of-way for our network increases our cost of doing business and could adversely affect our performance and results. In order for us to acquire and develop our fiber-optic networks, we must obtain and maintain local franchises and other permits, as well as rights-of-way and fiber capacity from entities such as incumbent carriers and other utilities, railroads, long distance companies, state highway authorities, private persons and companies, local governments and transit authorities. The process of obtaining these permits and rights-of-way is time-consuming and burdensome and increases our cost of doing business. 25 Table of Contents We may not be able to maintain our existing franchises, permits and rights-of-way that we need for our business. We may also be unable to obtain and maintain the other franchises, permits and rights-of-way that we require. In particular, we are involved in several legal proceedings that, among other things, challenge certain of our rights-of-way (and amounts payable by us therefor), and additional such proceedings could be instituted. Such proceedings may increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. Moreover, a sustained and material failure to obtain or maintain required rights could materially adversely affect our performance in the affected area and our operating results. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may adversely affect the financial markets and our business and operations. Significant terrorist attacks against the U.S., the U.K. or other countries in which we operate are possible. Since telecommunications networks and equipment may be considered critical infrastructure, it is possible that our physical facilities or network control systems could be the target of such attacks, or that such attacks could impact other telecommunications companies in a manner that disrupts our operations. These concerns also could lead to volatility or illiquidity in world financial markets and could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or otherwise adversely affect the economy. These events could adversely affect our business and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms. In addition, it is becoming increasingly difficult to obtain adequate insurance for losses incurred as a result of terrorist attacks at reasonable rates; in some cases, such insurance may not be available. Uninsured losses as a result of terrorist attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Common Stock ST Telemedia is our majority stockholder. A subsidiary of ST Telemedia beneficially owns over 60% of GCL’s outstanding equity securities. As a result, ST Telemedia has the power to elect the majority of GCL’s directors. Under applicable law and GCL’s articles of association and bye-laws and the certificate of designations for GCL’s preferred stock, certain actions cannot be taken without the approval of holders of a majority of our voting stock including, without limitation, mergers, certain acquisitions and dispositions, issuances of additional equity securities (with certain enumerated exceptions), incurrences of indebtedness above specified amounts, the making of capital expenditures in excess of specified amounts, and amendments to our articles of association and bye-laws. GCL’s bye-laws include significant additional corporate governance rights of ST Telemedia. These rights effectively dilute the rights of other shareholders. In addition, subsidiaries of ST Telemedia hold the Convertible Notes and enjoy significant rights as creditors under the indenture for the Convertible Notes. Moreover, the Convertible Notes are by their terms convertible at any time into common shares of GCL (16.2 million shares assuming conversion after four years), thereby increasing ST Telemedia’s ownership percentage in us. A sale by ST Telemedia of a significant portion of its shareholdings in us could trigger contractual provisions tied to a change in control of the Company. For example, a change in control could result in the termination of significant contracts with U.K. government customers, the requirement that we offer to purchase the Convertible Notes and the GCUK Notes at a price equal to 101% of their outstanding principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, and the acceleration of the vesting of stock options and other incentive compensation awards granted to our officers, directors and employees. Future sales of GCL’s common stock could adversely affect its price and/or our ability to raise capital. Future sales of substantial amounts of GCL’s common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of such stock and our ability to raise capital. As of the date hereof, there are approximately 23 million common shares of GCL outstanding. 6,600,000 of these shares are restricted shares held by a subsidiary of ST Telemedia. In addition, ST Telemedia’s subsidiary 26 Table of Contents holds 18,000,000 preferred shares of GCL, which are convertible into shares of GCL’s common stock on a one-for-one basis. These common shares will be restricted unless certain conditions are met. All such restricted shares may be sold only under a registration statement or an exemption from Securities Act registration requirements. However, ST Telemedia may cause us to register sales of such restricted stock at any time. In that regard, we filed a registration statement with the SEC on May 26, 2005 registering 800,000 shares of GCL common stock issuable to employees of and other individuals affiliated with ST Telemedia upon the exercise of stock options granted to such individuals by ST Telemedia. In addition to the shares outstanding as of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K, an additional 18,000,000 common shares have been reserved for issuance upon the conversion of the preferred shares held by ST Telemedia and its affiliates, and an additional 8,378,261 shares have been reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options or other stock-based awards granted under GCL’s stock incentive plan. In addition, the Convertible Notes are by their terms convertible at any time into common shares of GCL (16.2 million shares assuming conversion after four years). Although we have not yet reserved out of GCL’s share capital the necessary number of shares to effectuate such conversion, we are obligated to seek and obtain the necessary shareholder approval at GCL’s annual general meeting of shareholders expected to take place in June 2006. The shares of GCL common stock available for sale on the open market could increase materially as a result of a decision by ST Telemedia to reduce or eliminate its equity stake in GCL, or as a result of the conversion of ST Telemedia’s preferred shares or Convertible Notes into common shares or the exercise or vesting of awards under the stock incentive plan. These actions could significantly depress the market price of GCL’s common shares. Other Risks We and certain of our current and former officers and directors are involved in various lawsuits. As described below in Item 3, we and certain of our officers and directors are defendants in class action and other pending lawsuits, including suits arising out of our April 27, 2004 announcement that we expected to restate our 2003 consolidated financial statements due to an understatement of cost of access expenses. Moreover, the ongoing involvement in these lawsuits by certain of our current officers and directors could distract such individuals and reduce their productivity on our behalf. Finally, our involvement and the involvement of our current and former officers and directors in these lawsuits could adversely affect the perception of us by investors, customers, suppliers, employees and others, which in turn could adversely affect our operating results and hamper our ability to raise capital. We are exposed to contingent liabilities that could result in material losses that we have not reserved against. Included in “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 and Note 21, “Commitments, Contingencies and Other” to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K, are descriptions of important contingent liabilities. If one or more of these contingent liabilities were to be resolved in a manner adverse to us, we could suffer losses that are material to our financial condition. We have not established reserves for many of these contingent liabilities. Moreover, as described in “Legal Proceedings” and in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements, certain of these contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations in addition to the effect of any potential monetary judgment or sanction against us. Our real estate restructuring reserve represents a material liability the calculation of which involves significant estimation. As of December 31, 2005, our real estate restructuring reserve aggregated $400 million of continuing building lease obligations and estimated decommissioning costs and broker commissions, offset by anticipated 27 Table of Contents receipts of $80 million from existing subleases and $201 million from subleases projected to be entered into in the future. Although we believe these estimates to be reasonable, actual sublease receipts could turn out to be materially different than we have estimated. We have significant deficiencies in our internal controls, processes and procedures and may face difficulties in strengthening our internal accounting systems and controls and in our ability to satisfy our financial reporting obligations on a timely basis. We are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of the prevention or detection of misstatements. Our history of rapid initial growth, expansion through acquisition with attendant integration issues, significant reorganization and restructuring activities and associated significant staffing reductions, budgetary constraints and attendant limitations on investment in internal systems, and multiple financial statement restatements and related governmental investigations and civil litigation, have increased the risk of internal control deficiencies. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, management is required to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting on a periodic basis. Our assessment for the year ending December 31, 2004 revealed two material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. Although our most recent assessment did not reveal a material weakness as of December 31, 2005, such assessment did identify significant deficiencies in our internal controls. The existence of significant deficiencies means that there is more than a remote likelihood that we will not prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements that is more than inconsequential. Although we intend to improve our controls in these areas, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in that regard. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 