Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company is subject to all of the business risks facing public companies, including business cycles and trends in the general economy, financial market conditions, changes in interest rates, demand variations and volatility, potential loss of key personnel, supply of critical parts for vessels causing disruptions, government legislation and regulation, and adverse impacts from natural causes. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. Investors and prospective investors should carefully consider the following risks and the information contained in “Forward Looking Statements” on page 58 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Management believes that the most significant potential risk factors faced by the Company, are the following: RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY THE NATURE OF OUR BUSINESS AND OUR FLEET MAKES OUR OPERATIONS DEPENDENT UPON FLUCTUATIONS IN THE OIL AND PETROLEUM PRODUCTS MARKETS Our operating fleet consists of crude oil tankers and refined petroleum product carriers. As a result, our business is sensitive to changes in factors affecting the petroleum business and the transportation of crude oil and refined petroleum products. The demand for tanker capacity to transport crude oil and other petroleum products is influenced by among other factors: 15 • increases and decreases in crude oil production, particularly by OPEC and other key producers, and in the demand for crude oil and petroleum products; • global and regional economic and political conditions; • developments in international trade; • environmental concerns and regulations; • weather; • substitution by, and availability of, alternate energy sources; and • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. A change in any one of these factors could materially affect the demand for tanker capacity and charter rates. Historically, the crude oil and petroleum products markets have been volatile as a result of the many conditions and events that affect these factors. WE MAY EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTIES IN ANTICIPATING MARKET TRENDS Our future success depends upon our ability to anticipate changing market trends and to adapt our business strategy to continue to be profitable in the changing market. We may not be able to adapt our business timely to meet the changing market needs. Any such failure would have a material adverse effect on our business. The shipping industry can undergo dramatic changes, including regulatory and environmental changes, additional building or scrapping of vessels, changes in industry participants, terrorism or war and severe weather. Such changes can present significant challenges to our ability to continue to provide the services to our customers. THE INTENSE COMPETITION AND POTENTIAL FINANCIAL RESOURCES OF OUR COMPETITORS COULD AFFECT OUR MARKET POSITION Competition in virtually every aspect of our business is intense. Competition in the ocean shipping industry varies primarily depending on the nature of the contractual relationship and the kind of commodity being shipped. We compete with other tanker owners, including major oil companies, and independent companies. Some international fleets are government-owned and some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do. There can be no assurance that our competitive position will not erode in the future. To the extent that we enter new geographic areas or tanker market segments or provide new services, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in entering such markets or market segments or in providing such services. New markets may involve competitive factors that differ from those of our current market segments and may include participants that have greater financial strengths and capital resources than those available to us, which could limit our ability to profitably compete. AN INCREASE IN THE SUPPLY OF TANKER CAPACITY WITHOUT AN INCREASE IN DEMAND FOR TANKER CAPACITY WOULD LIKELY CAUSE CHARTER RATES TO DECLINE, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY The supply of tankers generally increases with deliveries of new vessels and decreases with the scrapping of older vessels, conversion of vessels to other uses, such as floating production and storage facilities, and loss of tonnage as a result of casualties. Currently, there is significant newbuilding activity with respect to virtually all sizes and classes of tankers. If the amount of tonnage delivered exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped, tanker capacity will increase. If the supply of tanker capacity increases and the demand for tanker capacity does not, the charter rates paid for our vessels could materially decline. Such a decline in charter rates would likely have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Further, newer vessels tend to be more efficient in size and movement, meaning that more scrapping of an equivalent amount of tonnage may still result in an effective increase in supply. OUR EXPOSURE TO THE SPOT MARKET COULD CAUSE OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS TO MATERIALLY DECLINE A significant portion of our revenue is traditionally generated in the spot market. The spot market is highly competitive and spot rates are subject to significant fluctuations. In the past, there have been situations where available spot rates declined below the operating costs for our vessels. Spot rates are affected by world economics, international 16 events, weather conditions, strikes, government policies, supply and demand, and many other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that spot charters will be available at rates that will be sufficient to enable our vessels to be operated profitably. OPERATION OF TANKERS CARRIES INHERENT RISKS THAT MAY NOT ALL BE COVERED BY INSURANCE The operation of any ocean-going vessel, and the transportation of crude oil and refined petroleum products, carry inherent risks. These risks include: the possibility of catastrophic marine disasters and property losses caused by adverse weather conditions, mechanical failures, collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, labor stoppages, business interruptions due to political action, hostilities, boycotts and other circumstances or events including spills and other environmental mishaps, as well as other liabilities arising from owning and operating vessels in international trade. Our business is affected by these risks and others, including collisions, property loss to the vessels, or cargo loss or damage. We cannot assure you that all risks are adequately insured against, that any particular claim will be paid or that we will be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. In particular, more stringent environmental regulations at times in the past have resulted in increased costs for, and in the lack of availability of, insurance against the risks of environmental damage or pollution. We recently began operating vessels for third parties. Many of the risks attendant to ownership also fall to the operator. Under the terms of our vessel liability insurance programs, we are subject to calls payable to cover losses incurred by other members of the insurance associations. A catastrophic loss by one ship owner might result in us being required to pay a significant amount to the marine indemnity associations, which could adversely impact our business and financial condition. WE ARE SUBJECT TO POLITICAL AND OTHER RISKS THAT MAY AFFECT CHARTER RATES AND OUR VOYAGES Due to the international nature of our business and the fact that our vessels operate around the world, we are exposed to many risks, including changing economic, political and social conditions in countries where we do business or where our vessels are registered or flagged as well as war, terrorism or piracy. These factors may affect charter rates and the length and safety of voyages and ultimately may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, because of such inherent risks, our ships may be precluded from sailing into areas of hostility. Additionally, as our corporate headquarters are located in the United States and as most of our officers and directors are U.S. citizens, we are subject to U.S. laws that restrict the countries with which our vessels may trade. U.S. law restricts our ability to send vessels to ports in certain countries including Iran, which is a significant oil exporting country. The countries subject to U.S. trade restrictions may change over time. To the extent that our competitors may accept charters to and from these countries, they have a competitive advantage over us. ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS EXPOSE US TO LIABILITY, AND COMPLIANCE WITH SUCH REGULATIONS COULD REQUIRE SIGNIFICANT EXPENDITURES AND AFFECT OUR CASH FLOW AND NET INCOME Our operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national and local environmental protection laws, regulations, treaties and conventions in force in the countries in which our vessels operate as well as the countries of their registration. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and other pollution, and our compliance with these requirements can be costly. OPA 90 affects all vessel owners shipping oil or hazardous material to, from or within the United States. OPA 90 allows for potentially unlimited liability without regard to fault for owners, operators and bareboat charterers of vessels for oil pollution in U.S. waters. Similarly, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, which has been adopted by most countries outside of the U.S., imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. OPA 90 expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries. Insurance for an oil pollution incident is limited to $1 billion, and the costs and claim involved in a large spill could exceed the insurance. 17 SEASONAL VARIATIONS IN OPERATING RESULTS AND SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN CHARTER RATES MAY AFFECT OUR REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY We operate our tankers in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, therefore, spot rates. Tanker markets are typically stronger in the winter months as a result of increased oil consumption in the Northern Hemisphere and unpredictable weather patterns in the winter months and other seasonal factors affecting supply, which tend to disrupt vessel scheduling. The oil price volatility resulting from these factors has historically led to increased oil trading activities. As a result, our revenues and profitability have historically been weakest during the second quarter and early part of our third quarter. ADDITIONAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS MAY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO DO BUSINESS OR INCREASE OUR COST TO DO BUSINESS We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our vessels. The kinds of permits, licenses and certificates required depend upon such factors as the country of registry, the commodity transported, the waters in which the vessel operates, the nationality of the vessel’s crew, the age of the vessel and our status as owner or charterer. New laws and regulations, environmental or otherwise, may be adopted that could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and that may have a material adverse effect on our operations. BECAUSE THE MARKET VALUE OF VESSELS MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY, WE MAY INCUR LOSSES WHEN WE SELL VESSELS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS The market value of oil tankers may vary significantly over time based upon various factors, including: general economic and market conditions affecting the tanker industry; number of vessels in the world fleet, types and sizes of vessels available, changes in trading patterns affecting demands for particular sizes and types of vessels, cost of newbuildings, prevailing level of charter rates, the laws and regulations governing the shipping industry, and technological advances in vessel design and propulsion. Declining vessel values could affect our ability to replace existing financings upon their expiration as well as raise cash generally, and thereby could adversely impact our liquidity. In addition, declining vessel values could result in a breach of certain loan covenants, which could give rise to events of default under the relevant financing agreements. There can be no assurance that the market value of our vessels will not decline, nor can there be any assurance that the market value of the vessels that are currently under construction or on order will not decline during the construction process. OUR VESSELS COULD BE ARRESTED BY MARITIME CLAIMANTS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN A SIGNIFICANT LOSS OF EARNINGS AND CASH FLOW FOR THE RELATED OFF-HIRE PERIOD Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to our vessels, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by either arresting or attaching a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings and cash flow for the related off-hire period. In addition, international vessel arrest conventions and certain national jurisdictions allow the arrest of vessels that are within the same legal ownership as the vessel that is subject to the claim or lien. Certain jurisdictions go further, permitting not only the arrest of vessels within the same legal ownership, but also any “associated” vessel. In nations with these laws, an “association” may be recognized when two vessels are owned by companies controlled by the same party. Consequently, a claim may be asserted against us, any of our subsidiaries or our vessels for the liability of one or more of the other vessels we own. TERRORIST ATTACKS, INCREASED HOSTILITIES OR WAR COULD LEAD TO FURTHER ECONOMIC INSTABILITY, INCREASED COSTS AND DISRUPTION OF OUR BUSINESS Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in the United States on September 11, 2001 and the later bombings in Spain and London, and the current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan and other current and future conflicts, may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, ability to raise capital and future growth. The long-term impact that terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks may have on the petroleum industry in 18 general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time. Uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of petroleum supplies and markets, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital. COMPANY SPECIFIC RISK FACTORS WE MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL MAINTAINING OUR BUSINESS Maintaining our business, and growing it as opportunities arise, is critical to our strategy. We may not be successful in expanding our operations and any expansion may not be profitable. Our future growth will depend upon a number of factors, both within and outside of our control. These include: • our identification of new markets; • our acceptance by new customers; • our identification and acquisition on favorable terms of acquisition candidates; • our successful integration of any acquired businesses with our existing operations; • our ability to hire and train qualified personnel; and • our ability to obtain required financing. The failure to effectively implement our growth strategy and deal with these factors could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RENEW TIME CHARTERS WHEN THEY EXPIRE Our ability to maintain long-term business is predicated upon our vessels and operations being of high quality and upon the reputation of the Company and management. Loss of quality, or perception of such loss, may inhibit our ability to obtain new long-term business, which is essential to our strategy. Most of our vessels operate on time charters. We cannot assure you that these time charters will be renewed, or if renewed, that they will be renewed at favorable rates. If, upon expiration of the existing time charters, we are unable to obtain time charters or voyage charters at rates comparable to those received under existing charters, our profitability may be adversely affected. If a time charter is terminated before expiration due to default or agreement, the vessel may be redelivered to us at times when we are unable to obtain rates that are as profitable as those on the terminated time charter, or not profitable at all. Several charterers have time charters on more than one of our vessels. Termination of several charters at one time, under the above circumstances, could materially impact our profitability. FORWARD FREIGHT AGREEMENTS REDUCE GAINS OR CAUSE LOSSES The Company uses forward freight agreements (“FFAs”) as a hedge to protect against declines in rates for vessels in the spot market. We also speculate with FFAs by taking long positions (if the rates increase (decrease) we have a gain (loss)). To the extent we make trades in FFAs and our market analysis is incorrect, we may reduce potential gains or incur losses. INDEBTEDNESS MAKE US SENSITIVE TO INTEREST RATE CHANGES AND COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO INCUR ADDITIONAL INDEBTEDNESS OR ENGAGE IN TRANSACTIONS The shipping industry is capital intensive, traditionally using substantial amounts of indebtedness to finance vessel acquisitions, capital expenditures and working capital needs. Our lenders have imposed financial and other covenants that require liens on the vessels financed and the cash flow they generate and limit borrowing availability based on the value of the collateral pledged. Bank borrowings are generally at variable rates, causing us to be sensitive to changes 19 in prevailing interest rates. This may influence our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations or vessel acquisitions. While our indebtness has been decreasing and is at a historical low as a percentage of total capitalization, it could increase if we obtained more assets. Substantial leverage and financial covenants could affect our ability to incur additional indebtedness or engage in certain transactions. The degree to which we are leveraged now or in the future could have important consequences to investors, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures and vessel acquisitions may be impaired; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations may have to be dedicated to the payment of the principal of and interest on our indebtedness; • our leverage may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures; • we have a higher level of indebtedness than some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in our industry, including increased competition or regulation; • rising interest rates during periods when we have a substantial portion of our indebtedness bearing interest at variable rates could have a material adverse effect on us; and • if we are unable to service our debt our creditors could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. WE MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAXATION ON OUR U.S. SOURCE SHIPPING INCOME We believe that we currently qualify under Section 883 of the Code, as amended (the “Code”), for an exemption from U.S. federal income tax on substantially all of our shipping income. This exemption may be lost if 50% or more of our stock is owned, for more than half the number of days during the taxable year, by persons who actually or constructively own 5% or more of our stock and we cannot qualify for an exemption from such rule. We can give no assurance that changes in the ownership of our stock will permit us to qualify for the Section 883 exemption in the future. If we do not qualify for an exemption pursuant to Section 883 of the Code, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax, likely imposed on a gross basis at 4%, on our U.S. source shipping income, which constitutes not more than 50% of our gross shipping income. In such a case, our net income and cash flow will be reduced by the amount of such tax. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON THE CREDITWORTHINESS OF OUR CUSTOMERS As we increase the portion of our revenues from time charters and synthetic time charters, we increase our reliance on the ability of time charterers to pay charter hire, especially when spot market rates are less than previously agreed upon time charter rates. WE DEPEND ON OUR KEY PERSONNEL AND MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY ATTRACTING AND RETAINING SKILLED EMPLOYEES Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. FUEL PRICES MAY INCREASE AND REDUCE OUR PROFITS The cost of fuel for vessels OMI operates is significant for vessels operating in the spot market. Rising fuel prices can reduce our profits for vessels operating on voyage charters in the spot market. The price of fuel fluctuates and is unpredictable. Prices can change based on events outside our control, including supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war regional production patterns and environmental concerns. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business. 20 OPERATING COSTS AND CAPITAL EXPENSES WILL INCREASE AS THE COMPANY’S VESSELS AGE As the age of the vessel increases capital expenditures and operating costs necessary for maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increase. The older a vessel becomes the more likely that the operating costs of that vessel will increase. Increases in costs may include new equipment needed to comply with changes in governmental regulations and other compliance standards. In order to add such equipment, we may be required to take vessels out of service. There can be no assurance that market conditions will justify such expenditures or enable the Company to operate older vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. WE MAY FACE UNEXPECTED DRYDOCK COSTS FOR OUR VESSELS Vessels must be drydocked periodically. The cost of repairs and renewals required at each drydock are difficult to predict with certainty and can be substantial. Our insurance does not cover these costs. In addition, vessels may have to be drydocked in the event of accidents or other unforeseen damage. Our insurance may not cover all of these costs. Large drydocking expenses could significantly decrease our profits. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO PAY DIVIDENDS Our Board of Directors currently intends on paying a quarterly dividend. Any determination by our Board of Directors to pay dividends in the future will be at their discretion and will depend upon the results of our operations, financial condition, capital restrictions, covenants and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE VOLATILE The market price of our common stock may be volatile. Factors that could cause that volatility include: • fluctuations in our annual or quarterly financial results or those of our competitors; • failures of our operating results to meet the estimates of securities analysts or the expectations of our stockholders or changes by securities analysts in their estimates of our future earnings; • the perceived risks associated with our possible future issuances of additional shares of common stock, unfavorable publicity; and • changes in environmental and other laws or regulations that adversely affect our industry or us. WE MAY ISSUE PREFERRED STOCK WHOSE TERMS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE VOTING POWER OR VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more series of preferred stock having such preferences, powers and relative, participating, optional and other rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our Board of Directors may determine. The terms of one or more series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might afford holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. PROVISIONS IN OUR CORPORATE DOCUMENTS COULD DELAY OR PREVENT A CHANGE IN CONTROL OF OUR COMPANY, EVEN IF SOME OF OUR STOCKHOLDERS BELIEVED IT WOULD BE BENEFICIAL The existence of some provisions in our corporate documents could delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, if the Board of Directors were opposed to the change of control. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make acquiring control of our Company difficult, including: • provisions relating to the classification, nomination and removal of our directors; • provisions limiting the right to call special meetings of our stockholders; and • the authorization given to our Board of Directors to issue and set the terms of preferred stock. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan that would cause extreme dilution to any person or group who attempts to acquire a significant interest in OMI without advance approval of our Board of Directors. 21 OUR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS ARE CRITICAL TO OUR BUSINESS AND A FAILURE OF THOSE SYSTEMS COULD MATERIALLY HARM OUR BUSINESS We depend on our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage a significant amount of information. If our information technology systems fail to perform as expected, or if we suffer an interruption, malfunction or loss of information processing capabilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. FAILURE TO ACHIEVE AND MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROLS IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, STOCK PRICE AND INCREASE OUR COSTS The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange have promulgated rules on a variety of subjects. These developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors or qualified executive officers. Compliance with these new rules increased our legal and accounting costs, since 2004. Additionally, if we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. WE ARE NOT A U.S. CORPORATION, AND THE HOLDERS OF SECURITIES MAY BE SUBJECT TO THE UNCERTAINTIES OF A FOREIGN LEGAL SYSTEM IN PROTECTING THEIR INTERESTS Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the corporate laws of the Marshall Islands. There have been few judicial cases interpreting the respective corporate laws of the Marshall Islands. Our security holders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would security holders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. IT MAY NOT BE POSSIBLE FOR OUR INVESTORS TO ENFORCE U.S. JUDGMENTS AGAINST US Substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the United States upon us or to enforce judgment upon us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our or the assets of our subsidiaries are located would: • enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws; or • enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based upon these laws. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 