Risk Factors” and throughout this Report and in our periodic and current reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for specific factors which could cause our actual results to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Many of these factors are beyond our ability to control or predict, and readers are cautioned not to put undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. We do not intend to, and assume no responsibility for updating or revising any forward-looking statements contained in this Report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS The Company GB&T Bancshares was formed in 1998 as a bank holding company existing under the laws of the State of Georgia. On April 24, 1998, we completed a reorganization of Gainesville Bank & Trust to the current holding company structure by acquiring all of the outstanding common stock of Gainesville Bank & Trust in exchange for 1,676,160 shares of GB&T Bancshares common stock. The acquisition was accounted for as a pooling of interests. We operate as a multi-bank holding company. All of our business activities are conducted through our subsidiaries. At December 31, 2006, we had seven wholly owned bank subsidiaries, Gainesville Bank & Trust, (“GBT”), United Bank & Trust, (“UBT”), Community Trust Bank, (“CTB”), HomeTown Bank of Villa Rica, (“HTB”), First National Bank of the South, (“FNBS”), First National Bank of Gwinnett, (“FNBG”) and Mountain State Bank (“MSB”). Through our subsidiary banks, we offer a wide range of lending services, including real estate, consumer and commercial loans to individuals, small businesses and other organizations that are located in or conduct a substantial portion of their business in our markets. We complement our lending operations with a full array of retail deposit products and fee-based services to support our clients including checking accounts, money market accounts, savings accounts and certificates of deposit. We also offer a variety of other traditional banking services to our customers, including drive-up and night depository facilities, 24-hour automated teller machines, internet banking, telephone banking and limited trust services. Market Areas and Competition We currently conduct business through 32 branches in our subsidiary banks’ market areas of Hall, Polk, Paulding, Cobb, Carroll, Baldwin, Bartow, Putnam, Clarke, Gwinnett, Dawson, Forsyth, Fulton and Lumpkin Counties, Georgia. These market areas geographically surround metropolitan Atlanta. According to 2005 data from the U.S. Census Bureau, the average projected population growth in our markets from 2005 to 2010 is expected to be 22.7% compared to a U.S. average of 6.3%. As a whole, the banking industry in Georgia is highly competitive. Our subsidiary banks compete with local as well as with national and regional financial institutions in our markets. In addition, our banks compete with credit unions, brokerage firms and money market funds. We compete with institutions which may have much greater financial resources than our subsidiary banks, and which may be able to offer more services to customers. In recent years, intense market demands, economic pressures, and increased customer awareness of products and services, and the availability of electronic services have forced banks to diversify their services and become more cost-effective. Our subsidiary banks face strong competition in attracting and retaining deposits and loans. Direct competition for deposits comes from other commercial banks, savings institutions, credit unions and issuers of securities, such as shares in money market funds. Interest rates on deposit accounts, convenience of banking facilities, products and services, and marketing are all significant factors in the competition for deposits. Competition for loans comes from other commercial banks, savings institutions, insurance companies, consumer finance companies, credit unions, mortgage banking firms and other institutional lenders. We compete for loan originations through interest rates charged on loans, loan fees, our efficiency in closing and handling of loans, and the overall quality of service. Competition is affected by the availability of lendable funds, general and local economic conditions, interest rates, and other factors that are not readily predictable. Management expects that competition will continue in the future due to statewide branching laws and the entry of additional bank and nonbank competitors. 3 Our Strategy We intend to achieve our primary goal of maximizing shareholder value by focusing on the following objectives: · Continue expansion, through selective acquisitions and opening strategically located branches, into high growth markets in Georgia where we believe we have a competitive advantage and an opportunity for growth; · Continue our primary focus on commercial and retail customers in our existing market areas with the goal of providing superior, personal customer service and maintaining strong asset quality; · Maintain local autonomy and accountability at our subsidiary banks; · Improve our financial performance through efficient management of our infrastructure and capital base; · Expand our financial products and services to meet the needs of our customers and to increase our fee income; and · Ensure management’s interests are aligned with shareholders. Community Banking. We believe that, in our market areas, customers are attracted and retained primarily through personal customer service and a local, community-oriented atmosphere in which they can feel comfortable and trust the bank personnel with whom they are dealing. In order to maintain this atmosphere, as we have acquired new banks and grown internally, we generally maintain the management team of each separate bank, allowing it to retain its local entrepreneurial identity, autonomy and decision making. By keeping with this community banking strategy, we feel that our employees and customers will forge long-term, mutually beneficial relationships. By keeping management local and accessible to customers, we believe our banks can respond more quickly to our customers’ needs than other, larger banks. Although we intend to maintain the relatively autonomous community bank atmosphere, due to the growth our company has experienced in the past several years, we focused our attention on maintaining asset and credit quality at all of our bank subsidiaries from a centralized, holding company level. To further this effort, in 2006 we appointed Sid J. Sims, a twenty-eight year banking veteran, to the newly created position of Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer, who has assumed the responsibility of managing asset and credit quality throughout our company. Growth Strategy. Our strategy is to continue pursuing expansion into attractive, high growth markets around the metropolitan Atlanta area through acquisitions of community banks and the establishment of de novo branch offices. Since February 2000, we have integrated eight bank acquisitions through mergers with their holding companies or merging the banks into Gainesville Bank & Trust. We focus our acquisition strategy on high-quality community banks with proven management teams that view combining with us as forging a partnership rather than as an exit strategy. Our goal is to maintain the management team of each acquired bank, allowing it to retain its local entrepreneurial identity, autonomy and decision making, while simultaneously increasing efficiency by consolidating administrative and back office operations. In addition to our strategy of expansion through combinations with other banks, we intend to continue to expand internally where possible by growing our existing banks in their respective market areas and nearby attractive markets. We believe that our decentralized community banking strategy allows our banks to effectively compete with our larger competitors by providing superior, personalized customer service, leveraging local decision making capabilities, and staying attuned to community matters. Trust Preferred Securities In 2002, our holding company formed a wholly owned grantor trust and issued $15.5 million in aggregate principal amount of trust preferred securities in a private placement offering. The grantor trust has invested the proceeds of the trust preferred securities in subordinated debentures of our holding company. The trust preferred securities can be redeemed, in 4 whole or in part, from time to time, prior to maturity at our option on or after October 30, 2007. The sole assets of the grantor trust are the subordinated debentures of GB&T Bancshares. The debentures have the same variable interest rate as the trust preferred securities. We have the right to defer interest payments on the debentures for up to 20 consecutive quarterly periods (five years), so long as we are not in default under the debentures. On July 22, 2004, we issued an additional $10.3 million in aggregate principal amount of trust preferred securities through a wholly owned grantor trust in a private placement. The grantor trust has invested the proceeds of the trust preferred securities in subordinated debentures of our holding company. The trust preferred securities can be redeemed, in whole or in part, from time to time, prior to maturity at our option on or after September 30, 2009. The sole assets of the grantor trust are the subordinated debentures of GB&T Bancshares. In addition, in connection with the acquisition of Southern Heritage Bank, which now operates as a division of GBT, we assumed $4.1 million in aggregate principal amount of trust preferred securities which have substantially the same terms as our other trust preferred securities except that they have a fixed rate of interest and may be redeemed at our option on or after June 26, 2008. As of December 31, 2006, we had $29.9 million in aggregate principal amount of trust preferred securities outstanding. See the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the trust preferred securities. Lending Activities We originate loans primarily secured by single and multi-family real estate, residential construction, and owner-occupied commercial buildings. In addition, we make loans to small and medium-sized commercial businesses, as well as to consumers for a variety of purposes. We also lend to residential contractors and developers in our market areas. We attempt to obtain a security interest in real estate whenever possible. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 90% of our loan portfolio was secured by real estate. We also provide commercial and consumer installment loans to our customers that are secured by collateral other than real estate. Such loans are typically of multiple-year duration and, if not variable rate, bear interest at a rate tied to our cost of funds of equivalent maturity. Our loan portfolio at December 31, 2006 was comprised as follows: Type Dollar Amount Percentage of Portfolio (Dollars in thousands) Real Estate-Mortgage $ 643,765 43.0 % Real Estate-Construction 702,809 46.9 Commercial 115,792 7.8 Consumer 31,756 2.1 Other 3,579 0.2 Total $ 1,497,701 100.0 % Real Estate-Mortgage. We make commercial mortgage loans to finance the purchase of real property as well as loans to smaller business ventures, credit lines for working capital and short-term seasonal or inventory financing, including letters of credit, that are also secured by real estate. Commercial mortgage lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts, and the repayment of loans is dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties collateralizing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. As a general practice, we require our commercial mortgage loans to be collateralized by well-managed, income producing property with adequate margins and to be guaranteed by responsible parties. In addition, a substantial percentage of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio is secured by owner-occupied commercial buildings. We look for opportunities where cash flow from the collateral provides adequate debt service coverage and the guarantor’s net worth is centered on assets other than the project we are financing. Our commercial mortgage loans are generally collateralized by first liens on real estate, have fixed or floating interest rates and amortize over a 15 to 25-year period with balloon payments due at the end of one to nine years. Payments on 5 loans collateralized by such properties are often dependent on the successful operation or management of the properties. Accordingly, repayment of these loans may by subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market. In underwriting commercial mortgage loans, we seek to minimize our risks in a variety of ways, including giving careful consideration to the property’s operating history, future operating projections, current and projected occupancy, location and physical condition. Our underwriting analysis also includes credit checks, reviews of appraisals and environmental hazards or EPA reports and a review of the financial condition of the borrower. We attempt to limit our risk by analyzing our borrowers’ cash flow and collateral value on an ongoing basis. Our residential mortgage loans consist of originating residential loans for the purchase of residential property to individuals for other third-party lenders. Residential loans to individuals held in our loan portfolio primarily consist of home equity loans and lines of credit. These loans are generally made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to repay the loan from his or her employment and other income and are secured by residential real estate, the value of which is reasonably ascertainable. We expect that these loan-to-value ratios will be sufficient to compensate for fluctuations in real estate market value and to minimize losses that could result from a downturn in the residential real estate market. Other than originating residential mortgage loans for other lenders, we infrequently make consumer residential real estate loans consisting primarily of first and second mortgage loans for residential properties. We generally do not retain long term, fixed rate residential real estate loans in our portfolio due to interest rate and collateral risks and low levels of profitability. Real Estate-Construction. We also make construction and development loans to residential and, to a lesser extent, commercial contractors and developers located within our market areas. Construction loans generally are secured by first liens on real estate and have floating interest rates. Construction loans involve additional risks attributable to the fact that loan funds are advanced upon the security of a project under construction, and the value of the project is dependent on its successful completion. As a result of these uncertainties, construction lending often involves the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, upon the success of the ultimate project rather than the ability of a borrower or guarantor to repay the loan. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to completion, there is no assurance that we will be able to recover all of the unpaid portion of the loan. In addition, we may be required to fund additional amounts to complete a project and may have to hold the property for an indeterminate period of time. While we have underwriting procedures designed to identify what we believe to be acceptable levels of risks in construction lending, no assurance can be given that these procedures will prevent losses from the risks described above. Commercial Lending. Our commercial loan portfolio includes loans to smaller business ventures, credit lines for working capital and short-term seasonal or inventory financing, as well as letters of credit that are generally secured by collateral other than real estate. Commercial borrowers typically secure their loans with assets of the business, personal guaranties of their principals, and often mortgages on the principals’ personal residences. Our commercial loans are primarily made within our market areas and are underwritten on the basis of the commercial borrower’s ability to service the debt from income. In general, commercial loans involve more credit risk than residential and commercial mortgage loans. The increased risk in commercial loans is generally due to the type of assets collateralizing these loans. The increased risk also derives from the expectation that commercial loans generally will be serviced from the operations of the business, and those operations may not be successful. Consumer Loans. We make a variety of loans to individuals for personal, family and household purposes, including secured and unsecured installment and term loans. Consumer loans entail greater risk than other loans, particularly in the case of consumer loans that are unsecured or secured by depreciating assets such as automobiles. In these cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment for the outstanding loan balance. In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be affected by job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy. Credit Risks. The principal economic risk associated with each category of the loans that we make is the creditworthiness of the borrower and the ability of the borrower to repay the loan. General economic conditions and the strength of the services and retail market segments affect borrower creditworthiness. General factors affecting a commercial borrower’s ability to repay include interest rates, inflation and the demand for the commercial borrower’s products and services, as well as other factors affecting a borrower’s customers, suppliers and employees. 6 Risks associated with real estate loans also include fluctuations in the value of real estate, new job creation trends, tenant vacancy rates and, in the case of commercial borrowers, the quality of the borrower’s management. Consumer loan repayments depend upon the borrower’s financial stability and are more likely to be adversely affected by divorce, job loss, illness and personal bankruptcy or other hardships. Lending Policies. The boards of directors of our subsidiary banks establish and periodically review the subsidiary banks’ lending policies and procedures. Our board of directors adopted a company-wide lending policy in 2004. Despite our centralized policy, we may grant our subsidiary banks the flexibility to adapt our lending policy to conditions in their specific market areas. However, in order to properly recognize the benefits of that flexibility within the parameters of our lending policy, in late 2006 we appointed Sid J. Sims as our Chief Credit Officer to oversee the lending practices of all our subsidiary banks. There are also regulatory restrictions on the dollar amount of loans available for each lending relationship. State banking regulations provide that no secured loan relationship may exceed 25% of the subsidiary banks’ statutory capital or net assets, as defined, and no unsecured loan relationship may exceed 15% of statutory capital, except in limited circumstances. National banking regulations provide that no loan relationship may exceed 15% of the subsidiary banks’ Tier 1 capital. Our subsidiary banks occasionally sell participation interests in loans to other lenders, including our other subsidiary banks, primarily when a loan exceeds the subsidiary banks’ legal lending limits. Deposits Our principal source of funds for loans and investing in securities is core deposits. We offer a wide range of deposit services, including checking, savings, money market accounts, and certificates of deposit. We obtain most of our deposits from individuals and businesses in our market areas. We believe that the rates we offer for core deposits are competitive with those offered by other financial institutions in our market areas. A secondary source of funding is through advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta, subordinated debt and other borrowings which enable us to borrow funds at rates and terms, which at times, are more beneficial to us. Other Banking Services We offer a range of products and services, including 24-hour internet banking, trust services, direct deposit, traveler’s checks, safe deposit boxes, United States savings bonds and automatic account transfers. We earn fees for most of these services. We also receive ATM transaction fees from transactions performed by our customers participating in a shared network of automated teller machines and a debit card system that our customers can use throughout Georgia and in other states. Investment Securities After establishing necessary cash reserves and funding loans, we invest our remaining liquid assets in securities allowed under banking laws and regulations. We invest primarily in obligations of the United States or obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States, other taxable securities and in certain obligations of states and municipalities. We also invest excess funds in federal funds with our correspondent banks and primarily act as a net seller of such funds. The sale of federal funds represents a short-term loan from us to another bank. Risks associated with securities include, but are not limited to, interest rate fluctuation, maturity, and concentration. Asset/Liability Management It is our objective to manage our assets and liabilities to provide a satisfactory and consistent level of profitability within the framework of established cash, loan, securities, borrowing and capital policies. Our overall philosophy is to support asset growth primarily through the growth of core deposits, which include deposits of all categories from individuals and businesses. Management seeks to invest the largest portion of our assets in loans. Our asset-liability mix is monitored on a periodic basis with a report reflecting interest-sensitive assets and interest-sensitive liabilities being prepared and presented to the Investment Committee of the holding company’s board of directors on a quarterly basis. The objective of this policy is to manage interest-sensitive assets and liabilities so as to minimize the impact of substantial movements in interest rates on our earnings. 7 Employees As of December 31, 2006, we had 505 full-time equivalent employees, of which 154 were employed by Gainesville Bank & Trust, 35 were employed by United Bank & Trust, 73 were employed by Community Trust Bank, 49 were employed by HomeTown Bank of Villa Rica, 51 were employed by First National Bank of the South, 20 were employed by First National Bank of Gwinnett, 50 were employed by Mountain State Bank and 73 were employed by the holding company. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreement and, in the opinion of management, we enjoy satisfactory relations with our employees. Supervision and Regulation We, like the rest of the banking industry, are subject to extensive state and federal banking laws and regulations that impose specific requirements or restrictions on and provide for general regulatory oversight of virtually all aspects of our operations. These laws and regulations are generally intended to protect depositors, not shareholders. Legislation and regulations authorized by legislation influence, among other things: · How, when and where we may expand geographically; · Into what product or service market we may enter; · How we must manage our assets; and · Under what circumstances money may or must flow between the parent bank holding company and the subsidiary bank. Set forth below is an explanation of the major pieces of legislation affecting our industry and how that legislation affects our actions. The following summary is qualified by reference to the statutory and regulatory provisions discussed. Changes in applicable laws or regulations may have a material effect on our business and prospects, and legislative changes and the policies of various regulatory authorities may significantly affect our operations. We cannot predict the effect that fiscal or monetary policies, or new federal or state legislation may have on our business and earnings in the future. General. The Company is a bank holding company registered with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) and the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance (the “Georgia Department”) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”) and the Financial Institutions Code of Georgia (the “FICG”), respectively. GBT, UBT, CTB, HTB and MSB are state banks incorporated under the laws of Georgia and are subject to examination by the Georgia Department and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). FNBS and FNBG are nationally chartered banks incorporated under the laws of the United States and are subject to examination by the FDIC and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”). All of our banks’ deposits are insured by the FDIC to the maximum extent provided by law. The FDIC, OCC, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (the “Federal Reserve”) and the Georgia Department regularly examine our operations and are given authority to approve or disapprove mergers, consolidations, the establishment of branches, and similar corporate actions. The agencies also have the power to prevent the continuance or development of unsafe or unsound banking practices or other violations of law. Acquisitions. The BHC Act requires every bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before: (i) it may acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank if, after such acquisition, the bank holding company will directly or indirectly own or control more than 5% of the voting shares of the bank; (ii) it or any of its subsidiaries, other than a bank, may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank; or (iii) it may merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company. The BHC Act further provides that the Federal Reserve may not approve any transaction that would result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any section of the United States, or the effect of which may be substantially to lessen competition or to tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country, or that in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, 8 unless the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed by the public interest in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. The Federal Reserve is also required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding companies and banks involved and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Consideration of financial resources generally focuses on capital adequacy, and consideration of convenience and needs issues generally focuses on the parties’ performance under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977. Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act, the restrictions on interstate acquisitions of banks by bank holding companies were repealed. As a result, the Company, and any other bank holding company located in Georgia, is able to acquire a bank located in any other state, and a bank holding company located outside of Georgia can acquire any Georgia-based bank, in either case subject to certain deposit percentage and other restrictions. The legislation provides that unless an individual state has elected to prohibit out-of-state banks from operating interstate branches within its territory, adequately capitalized and managed bank holding companies are able to consolidate their multistate banking operations into a single bank subsidiary and to branch interstate through acquisitions. De novo branching by an out-of-state bank is permitted only if it is expressly permitted by the laws of the host state. Georgia does not permit de novo branching by an out-of-state bank. Therefore, the only method by which an out-of-state bank or bank holding company may enter Georgia is through an acquisition. Georgia has adopted an interstate banking statute that removed restrictions on the ability of banks to branch interstate through mergers, consolidations and acquisitions. However, Georgia law prohibits a bank holding company from acquiring control of a financial institution until the target financial institution has been incorporated for three years. Restrictions on Transactions with Affiliates. We and our subsidiary banks are subject to the provisions of Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act. Section 23A places limits on: the amount of a bank’s loans or extensions of credit to affiliates; a bank’s investment in affiliates; assets a bank may purchase from affiliates, except for real and personal property exemption by the Federal Reserve; the amount of loans or extensions of credit to third parties collateralized by the securities or obligations of affiliates; and a bank’s guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit issued on behalf of an affiliate. The total amount of the above transactions is limited in amount, as to any one affiliate, to 10.0% of a bank’s capital and surplus and, as to all affiliates combined, to 20.0% of a bank’s capital and surplus. In addition to the limitation on the amount of these transactions, each of the above transactions must also meet specified collateral requirements. The Bank must also comply with other provisions designed to avoid the taking of low-quality assets. We and our subsidiary banks are also subject to the provisions of Section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act which, among other things, prohibit an institution from engaging in the above transactions with affiliates unless the transactions are on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the institution or its subsidiaries, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with nonaffiliated companies. We are also subject to restrictions on extensions of credit to our executive officers, directors, principal shareholders and their related interests. These extensions of credit must be made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with third parties, and must not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. Activities. The BHC Act has generally prohibited a bank holding company from engaging in activities other than banking or managing or controlling banks or other permissible subsidiaries and from acquiring or retaining direct or indirect control of any company engaged in any activities other than those determined by the Federal Reserve to be closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. Provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the “GLB Act”), discussed below, have expanded the permissible activities of a bank holding company that qualifies as a financial holding company. In determining whether a particular activity is permissible, the Federal Reserve must consider whether the performance of such an activity can be reasonably expected to produce benefits to the public, such as a greater convenience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency, that outweigh possible adverse effects such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices. 9 Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The GLB Act implemented major changes to the statutory framework for providing banking and other financial services in the United States. The GLB Act, among other things, eliminated many of the restrictions on affiliations among banks and securities firms, insurance firms, and other financial service providers. A bank holding company that qualifies as a financial holding company will be permitted to engage in activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complimentary to a financial activity. The GLB Act specifies certain activities that are deemed to be financial in nature, including underwriting and selling insurance, providing financial and investment advisory services, underwriting, dealing in, or making a market in securities, limited merchant banking activities, and any activity currently permitted for bank holding companies under Section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act. To become eligible for these expanded activities, a bank holding company must qualify as a financial holding company. To qualify as a financial holding company, each insured depository institution controlled by the bank holding company must be well-capitalized, well-managed, and have at least a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act. In addition, the bank holding company must file a declaration with the Federal Reserve of its intention to become a financial holding company. The Company has not filed an application to become a financial holding company. The GLB Act designates the Federal Reserve as the overall umbrella supervisor of the new financial services holding companies. The GLB Act adopts a system of functional regulation where the primary regulator is determined by the nature of activity rather than the type of institution. Under this principle, securities activities are regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and other securities regulators, insurance activities by the state insurance authorities, and banking activities by the appropriate banking regulator. As a result, to the extent that we engage in non-banking activities permitted under the GLB Act, we will be subject to the regulatory authority of the SEC or state insurance authority, as applicable. Payment of Dividends. The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. Its principal source of cash flow is dividends from its subsidiary banks. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by the subsidiary banks to the Company, as well as by the Company to its shareholders. If, in the opinion of the federal banking agencies, a depository institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the depository institution, could include the payment of dividends), such authority may require, after notice and hearing, that such institution cease and desist from such practice. The federal banking agencies have indicated that paying dividends that deplete a depository institution’s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”), a depository institution may not pay any dividend if payment would cause it to become undercapitalized or if it already is undercapitalized. See “Prompt Corrective Action”. Moreover, the federal agencies have issued policy statements that provide that bank holding companies and insured banks should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. During 2006, the Company paid a total of $0.36 per share to its shareholders. At December 31, 2006, the Company could declare approximately $12.5 million in dividends without further regulatory approval. Capital Adequacy. We are required to comply with the capital adequacy standards established by the federal banking agencies. There are two basic measures of capital adequacy for bank holding companies that have been promulgated by the Federal Reserve: a risk-based measure and a leverage measure. All applicable capital standards must be satisfied for a bank holding company to be considered in compliance. The risk-based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off-balance-sheet exposure, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off-balance-sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with appropriate weights. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets and off-balance-sheet items. The minimum guideline for the ratio of Total Capital to risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance-sheet items, such as standby letters of credit) is 8.0%. Total Capital consists of Tier 1 Capital, which is comprised of common 10 stock, undivided profits, minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries and noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets, and Tier 2 Capital, which consists of subordinated debt, other preferred stock, and a limited amount of loan loss reserves. At December 31, 2006, our consolidated Total Capital Ratio and our Tier 1 Capital Ratio were 12.12% and 10.86%, respectively. In addition, the Federal Reserve has established minimum leverage ratio guidelines for bank holding companies. These guidelines provide for a minimum ratio (the “Leverage Ratio”) of Tier 1 Capital to average assets, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets, of 3.0% for bank holding companies that meet certain specified criteria, including those having the highest regulatory rating. All other bank holding companies generally are required to maintain a Leverage Ratio of at least 3.0%, plus an additional cushion of 1.0% to 2.0%. Our Leverage Ratio at December 31, 2006 was 9.44%. The guidelines also provide that bank holding companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions will be expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels without significant reliance on intangible assets. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve has indicated that it will consider a “tangible Tier 1 Capital Leverage Ratio” (deducting all intangibles) and other indicators of capital strength in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. The Banks are subject to risk-based and leverage capital requirements adopted by its federal banking regulators, which are substantially similar to those adopted by the Federal Reserve for bank holding companies. Failure to meet capital guidelines could subject a bank or bank holding company to a variety of enforcement remedies, including issuance of a capital directive, the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, a prohibition on the taking of brokered deposits, and certain other restrictions on its business. As described below, substantial additional restrictions can be imposed upon FDIC-insured depository institutions that fail to meet applicable capital requirements. See “Prompt Corrective Action”. The federal bank agencies continue to indicate their desire to raise capital requirements applicable to banking organizations beyond their current levels. In this regard, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have, pursuant to FDICIA, recently adopted final regulations requiring regulators to consider interest rate risk (when the interest rate sensitivity of an institution’s assets does not match the sensitivity of its liabilities or its off-balance-sheet position) in the evaluation of a bank’s capital adequacy. The bank regulatory agencies have concurrently proposed a methodology for evaluating interest rate risk that would require banks with excessive interest rate risk exposure to hold additional amounts of capital against such exposures. Support of Subsidiary Institutions. Under Federal Reserve policy, we are expected to act as a source of financial strength for, and to commit resources to support, our subsidiary banks. This support may be required at times when, absent such Federal Reserve policy, we may not be inclined to provide such support. In addition, any capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its banking subsidiaries are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by a bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a banking subsidiary will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. Prompt Corrective Action. FDICIA established a system of prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of undercapitalized institutions. Under this system, the federal banking regulators have established five capital categories (well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized), and are required to take certain mandatory supervisory actions, and are authorized to take other discretionary actions, with respect to institutions in the three undercapitalized categories. The severity of the action will depend upon the capital category in which the institution is placed. Generally, subject to a narrow exception, the banking regulator must appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is critically undercapitalized. The federal banking agencies have specified by regulation the relevant capital level for each category. An institution that is categorized as undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its appropriate federal banking agency. A bank holding company must guarantee that a subsidiary depository institution meets its capital restoration plan, subject to certain limitations. The controlling holding company’s obligation to fund a capital restoration plan is limited to the lesser of 5.0% of an undercapitalized subsidiary’s assets or the amount required to meet regulatory capital requirements. An 11 undercapitalized institution is also generally prohibited from increasing its average total assets, making acquisitions, establishing any branches or engaging in any new line of business, except under an accepted capital restoration plan or with FDIC approval. In addition, the appropriate federal banking agency may test an undercapitalized institution in the same manner as it treats a significantly undercapitalized institution if it determines that those actions are necessary. At December 31, 2006, all our banks had the requisite capital level to qualify as “well capitalized” under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, except for HTB which was considered “adequately capitalized”. On March 1, 2007, the Company injected sufficient capital at HTB for it to obtain “well capitalized” status. FDIC Insurance Assessments. The FDIC establishes rates for the payment of premiums by federally insured banks and thrifts for deposit insurance. Member institutions pay deposit insurance assessments to the Deposit Insurance Fund, or the “DIF.” The FDIC previously maintained the Savings Association Insurance Fund and the Bank Insurance Fund, which primarily insured the deposits of banks and state chartered savings banks. These two funds were merged into the DIF effective March 31, 2006. The FDIC recently amended its risk-based assessment system for 2007 to implement authority that the FDIC was granted under the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005, or the “Reform Act.” Under the revised system, insured institutions are assigned to one of four risk categories based on supervisory evaluations, regulatory capital levels and other factors. The new regulation allows the FDIC to more closely tie each financial institution’s deposit insurance premiums to the risk it poses to the DIF. The assessment rate of an institution depends upon the category to which it is assigned. Risk Category I, which contains the least risky depository institutions, is expected to include more than 90 percent of all institutions. Risk Category I, unlike the other risk categories, contains further risk differentiation based on the FDIC’s analysis of financial ratios, examination components and other information. The new assessment rates for nearly all financial institutions (Risk Category I) are expected to vary between five and seven basis points, or five to seven cents for every $100 of domestic deposits. The riskiest institutions (Risk Category IV) may be assessed up to 43 basis points. The FDIC may adjust rates uniformly from one quarter to the next, except that no single adjustment can exceed three basis points. In addition to the assessments for deposit insurance, institutions are required to make payments on bonds which were issued in the late 1980s by the Financing Corporation in order to recapitalize the predecessor to the Savings Association Insurance Fund. During 2006, Financing Corporation payments for Savings Association Insurance Fund members approximated 1.28 basis points of assessable deposits. These assessments, which are adjusted quarterly, will continue until the Financing Corporation bonds mature in 2017. The FDIC may terminate its insurance of deposits if it finds that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. Safety and Soundness Standards. The FDIA, as amended by the FDICIA and the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994, requires the federal bank regulatory agencies to prescribe standards, by regulations or guidelines, relating to internal controls, information systems and internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate risk exposure, asset growth, asset quality, earnings, stock valuation and compensation, fees and benefits, and such other operational and managerial standards as the agencies deem appropriate. The federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted a set of guidelines prescribing safety and soundness standards pursuant to FDICIA, as amended. The guidelines establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth and compensation and fees and benefits. In general, the guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risks and exposures specified in the guidelines. The guidelines prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director, or principal shareholder. In addition, the agencies adopted regulations that authorize, but do not require, an agency to order an institution that has been given notice by an agency that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an acceptable compliance plan, the agency must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized institution is subject under the “prompt corrective action” provisions of FDICIA. See “Prompt Corrective Action”. If an institution fails to comply with 12 such an order, the agency may seek to enforce such order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil money penalties. The federal regulatory agencies also proposed guidelines for asset quality and earnings standards. Community Reinvestment Act. Under the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”), our subsidiary banks, as FDIC insured institutions, have a continuing and affirmative obligation to help meet the credit needs of the entire community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with safe and sound banking practices. The CRA requires the appropriate federal regulator, in connection with its examination of an insured institution, to assess the institution’s record of meeting the credit needs of its community and to take such record into account in its evaluation of certain applications, such as applications for a merger or the establishment of a branch. An unsatisfactory rating may be used as the basis for the denial of an application by the federal banking regulator. The Banks have received satisfactory ratings in their CRA examinations. Privacy. The GLB Act also modified laws related to financial privacy. The new financial privacy provisions generally prohibit a financial institution from disclosing nonpublic personal financial information about consumers to third parties unless consumers have the opportunity to “opt out” of the disclosure. A financial institution is also required to provide its privacy policy annually to its customers. Compliance with the implementing regulations was mandatory effective July 1, 2001. Our subsidiary banks implemented the required financial privacy provisions by July 1, 2001. Effect of Governmental Monetary Policies. The earnings of our subsidiary banks are affected by domestic and foreign conditions, particularly by the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States government and its agencies. The Federal Reserve has had, and will continue to have, an important impact on the operating results of commercial banks through its power to implement monetary policy in order, among other things, to mitigate recessionary and inflationary pressures by regulating the national money supply. The techniques used by the Federal Reserve include setting the reserve requirements of member banks and establishing the discount rate on member bank borrowings. The Federal Reserve also conducts open market transactions in United States government securities. USA Patriot Act of 2001. In October 2001, the USA Patriot Act of 2001 (the “Patriot Act”) was enacted in response to the terrorist attacks in New York, Pennsylvania, and Washington, D.C. that occurred on September 11, 2001. The Patriot Act impacts financial institutions in particular through its anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws. The Patriot Act amended the Bank Secrecy Act and the rules and regulations of the Office of Foreign Assets Control to establish regulations which, among others, set standards for identifying customers who open an account and promoting cooperation with law enforcement agencies and regulators in order to effectively identify parties that may be associated with, or involved in, terrorist activities or money laundering. On March 2, 2006, Congress passed the USA Patriot Act Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2005. This act reauthorized all provisions of the Patriot Act that would otherwise have expired, made 14 of the 16 sunsetting provisions permanent, and extended the sunset period of the remaining two for an additional four years. Proposed Legislation and Regulatory Action. New regulations and statutes are regularly proposed that contain certain wide-ranging proposals for altering the structures, regulations, and competitive relationships of the nation’s financial institutions. We cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed regulation or statute will be adopted or the extent to which our business may be affected by any new regulation or statute. Available Information The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These filings are available to the public at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. The Company also has a website at http://www.gbtbancshares.com. On the website, the Company provides hyperlinks to copies of the annual, quarterly and current reports that the Company files with the SEC, any amendments to those reports and press releases as well as the Company’s code of ethics policy. 13 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to certain risks, including those described below. Readers of this Annual Report on Form 10-K should take such risks into account in evaluating any investment decision involving our common stock. The risks below do not describe all risks applicable to our business and are intended only as a summary of certain material factors that affect our operations in the industries in which we operate. More detailed information concerning these and other risks is contained in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Significant risks accompany our recent rapid expansion. We have recently experienced significant growth through acquisitions, including the acquisitions of Lumpkin County Bank and Southern Heritage Bank in August 2004, the acquisition of First National Bank of Gwinnett in March 2005 and the acquisition of Mountain State Bank in May 2006. These acquisitions could place a strain on our resources, systems, operations and cash flow. Our ability to manage these acquisitions will depend on our ability to monitor operations and control costs, maintain effective quality controls, expand our internal management and technical and accounting systems and otherwise successfully integrate acquired businesses into our company. If we fail to do so, our business, financial condition and operating results will be negatively impacted. We face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions or mergers. We continuously seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions and may continue to engage in de novo branch expansion in the future. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: · the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners may negatively affect our business; · the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution may not be accurate; · the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion may negatively affect our business; · we may not be able to finance an acquisition without diluting our existing shareholders; · the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction may detract from their business productivity; · we may enter into new markets where we lack experience; · we may introduce new products and services into our business with which we have no prior experience; and · we may incur an impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and experience adverse short-term effects on our results of operations. In addition, no assurance can be given that we will be able to integrate our operations after an acquisition without encountering difficulties including, without limitation, the loss of key employees and customers, the disruption of our respective ongoing businesses or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. Successful integration of our operations with another entity’s will depend primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems and procedures and to eliminate redundancies and costs. If we have difficulties with the integration, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect to result from any particular acquisition or merger. In addition, we may experience greater than expected costs or difficulties relating to such integration. 14 If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may experience significant loan losses which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any loan losses which may occur. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, volume, delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information. As we expand into new markets, our determination of the size of the allowance could be understated due to our lack of familiarity with market-specific factors. If our assumptions are wrong, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses, and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Additions to our allowance would significantly decrease our net income. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies where we operate. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our market areas. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may be negatively impacted. In addition, the economies of the communities in which we operate are substantially dependent on the growth of the economy in metropolitan Atlanta. To the extent that economic conditions in metropolitan Atlanta are unfavorable or do not continue to grow as projected, the economies in our market areas would be adversely affected. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our market areas if they do occur. In addition, the market value of the real estate securing loans as collateral could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 90% of our total loans were secured by real estate. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in our market areas could adversely affect the value of our assets, our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Risks associated with unpredictable economic and political conditions may be amplified as a result of our limited market areas. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. Because the majority of our borrowers are individuals and businesses located and doing business in Hall, Polk, Paulding, Cobb, Carroll, Bartow, Baldwin, Putnam, Clarke, Gwinnett, Dawson, Forsyth, Fulton and Lumpkin Counties, Georgia, our success will depend significantly upon the economic conditions in those and the surrounding counties. Unfavorable economic conditions in those and the surrounding counties may result in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit and may harm the financial stability of our customers. Due to our limited market areas, these negative conditions may have a more noticeable effect on us than would be experienced by a larger institution more able to spread these risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. 15 Our recent operating results may not be indicative of our future operating results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow our business at all. In addition, our recent and rapid growth, including our growth through acquisitions, may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. Our strong performance during this time period was, in part, the result of an extremely favorable residential mortgage refinancing market and our successful integration of acquisitions which occurred during that period. In the future, we may not have the benefit of a favorable interest rate environment, a strong residential mortgage market, or the ability to find suitable candidates for acquisition. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to a high percentage of our operating costs being fixed expenses. Departures of our key personnel may harm our ability to operate successfully. Our success has been and continues to be largely dependent upon the services of Richard A. Hunt, our President and Chief Executive Officer, other members of our senior management team, including our senior loan officers, and our board of directors, many of whom have significant relationships with our customers. Our continued success will depend, to a significant extent, on the continued service of these key personnel. The prolonged unavailability or the unexpected loss of any of them could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot be assured of the continued service of our senior management team or our board of directors with us. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our capital resources will continue to satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed on favorable terms. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience competition in each of our market areas from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions such as Bank of America, BB&T, Regions Bank, SunTrust, Synovus and Wachovia that operate offices in our market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our market areas, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Although we attempt to compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our market areas with local advertisements, personal contacts, and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance that this strategy will be successful. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and adversely affect our earnings. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid 16 on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC rather than shareholders. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our earnings. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq that are now applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, including the costs of completing our audit and maintaining our internal controls. Our ability to pay dividends is limited and we may be unable to pay future dividends. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital. The ability of our bank subsidiaries to pay dividends to us is limited by their obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general restrictions on their dividends that are applicable to our regulated bank subsidiaries. If these regulatory requirements are not met, our subsidiary banks will not be able to pay dividends to us, and we may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 