ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common stock. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Please see “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred losses since inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We may not ever achieve or sustain profitability. We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history. We are not profitable and have incurred losses in each year since our inception in 1998. We do not currently have any products that have been approved for marketing, and we continue to incur research and development, and general and administrative expenses related to our operations. Our net loss for 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $31.2 million, $27.5 million (excluding a preferred stock dividend of $88.1 million) and $20.5 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $240.2 million, including an $88.1 million deemed dividend related to our IPO in September 2005. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and we expect these losses to increase significantly, especially upon commencing Phase 3 clinical trials, as we continue our research activities and conduct development of, and seek regulatory approvals for, our product candidates, and commercialize any approved drugs. Our losses, among other things, have caused and will continue to cause our stockholders’ equity and working capital to decrease. To date, we have derived all of our revenue from collaboration agreements and, to a lesser extent, grants and fellowships. We do not anticipate that we will generate revenue from the sale of products for the foreseeable future. If our product candidates fail in clinical trials or do not gain regulatory approval, or if our future products do not achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. 20 Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. We will require substantial additional funding, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. We are advancing multiple product candidates through discovery and development. We will need to raise substantial additional capital to continue our discovery, development and commercialization activities. We plan to retain the development and commercialization rights to some of our novel cancer therapeutics at least until we have completed a Phase 2 clinical trial to maximize our economic upside, which will require substantial expenditures by us. In 2007, we intend to enter into a strategic partnership for one of our product candidates wherein we would extend the geographic reach of the product candidate while retaining significant U.S. ownership. We will need to raise substantial additional capital to: · fund clinical trials and seek regulatory approvals; · pursue the development of additional product candidates; · expand our research and development activities; · build or access manufacturing and commercialization capabilities; · implement additional internal systems and infrastructure; · maintain, defend and expand the scope of our intellectual property portfolio; and · hire additional management and scientific personnel. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to: · the rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials, preclinical studies and other discovery and research and development activities; · the costs associated with establishing manufacturing and commercialization capabilities; · the costs of acquiring or investing in businesses, product candidates and technologies; · the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; · the costs and timing of seeking and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; · the effect of competing technological and market developments; and · the economic and other terms and timing of any collaboration, licensing or other arrangements into which we may enter. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue to finance our cash requirements, which we may never do, we expect to finance future cash needs primarily through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or strategic collaborations. We do not know whether additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our clinical trials or research and development programs. In addition, we plan to partner one or more of our product candidate programs at an earlier stage of development, which would lower the economic value of such program or programs to our company. 21 There is a high risk that our drug discovery and development activities could be halted significantly or delayed for various reasons. Most of our product candidates are in the early stages of drug discovery or development and are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. As of the date of this report, only two of our product candidates, SNS-595 and SNS-032, have been tested in humans. We and our collaboration partners will need to conduct significant additional preclinical studies and clinical trials before we or our collaboration partners can demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In our industry, it is unlikely that the limited number of compounds that we have identified as potential product candidates will actually lead to successful product development efforts. Failure can occur at any stage of the process, and successful preclinical studies and early clinical trials do not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. Product candidates in later stage trials may fail to show desired efficacy and safety traits despite having progressed through initial clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier trials. We do not know whether our ongoing Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials with SNS-595, our ongoing and planned Phase 1 clinical trials with SNS-032, our planned Phase 1 clinical trial with SNS-314, or any other future clinical trials with any of our product candidates will be completed on schedule, or at all, or whether our ongoing or planned Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials will begin on time. The commencement of our planned clinical trials could be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: · limited number of, and competition for, suitable patients with particular types of cancer for enrollment in clinical trials; · delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; · delays or failures in obtaining sufficient clinical materials; · delays or failures in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial agreement terms or clinical trial protocols with prospective sites; or · delays or failures in obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site. The completion of our clinical trials could also be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: · slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment; · failure of patients to complete the clinical trial; · unforeseen safety issues; · lack of efficacy during clinical trials; · inability or unwillingness of patients or medical investigators to follow our clinical trial protocols; and · inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment. For example, due to potential complications from treatment in our planned Phase 1 clinical trial of SNS-032 in B-cell lymphoid malignancies, we will need to provide patients enrolling in this clinical trial with in-patient hospital care. We believe that this may result in difficulty in recruiting patients and increased costs in performing the clinical trial. Additionally, our clinical trials may be suspended or terminated at any time by the FDA, other regulatory authorities, our company or, in some cases, our 22 collaboration partners. Any failure or significant delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates could harm our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates. Our clinical trials for our lead product candidates, SNS-595, SNS-032 and SNS-314, may not demonstrate safety or efficacy or lead to regulatory approval. Our lead product candidates, SNS-595, SNS-032 and SNS-314, are small-molecule therapeutics being developed for the treatment of certain types of cancer. Many cancer drugs promote cancer cell death by inhibiting cell proliferation, and commonly have a narrow dose range between efficacy and toxicity, commonly known as a “therapeutic window.” Based on the results of our Phase 1 clinical trials, we may select a dose for use in future clinical trials that may prove to be ineffective in treating cancer. If our clinical trials result in unacceptable toxicity or lack of efficacy, we may have to terminate further clinical trials for SNS-595, SNS-032 and/or SNS-314. Even if we are able to find a proper dose that balances the toxicity and efficacy of one or more of our product candidates, we will be required to conduct extensive additional clinical trials before we are able to seek the regulatory approvals needed to market them. If clinical trials of SNS-595, SNS-032 and/or SNS-314 are halted, or if they do not show that these product candidates are safe and effective, our future growth would be limited and we may not have any other product candidates to develop. Furthermore, our current development strategy for each of SNS-595, SNS-032 and SNS-314 is to test the efficacy and toxicity of each product candidate as a single agent. We may later determine that one or more of these product candidates is more efficacious and/or less toxic in combination with another approved cancer drug. Likewise, each of our product candidates may only receive FDA and foreign approvals, if at all, in combination with another cancer drug. In addition to the risks described above, we are aware of risks that are specific to SNS-032. In previous Phase 1 clinical trials of SNS-032, significant safety risks were observed in patients who were administered SNS-032 on either a one-hour or a 24-hour infusion once every three weeks. For example, increases in certain phases of the cardiac cycle, known as the QT interval, or the corrected QT interval, or QTc, on the electrocardiograms of patients were observed in patients receiving the 24-hour infusion regimen. Increased QT intervals may be associated with increased risk for cardiac rhythm abnormalities, some of which can be serious, life-threatening events. In addition, pronounced, rapidly reversible decreases in white blood cells were observed following infusion under the one-hour infusion regimen, most likely associated with higher peak drug levels in this regimen. Further, some patients also experienced reversible liver toxicity, which limited the amount of drug that could be administered to those patients. Two of these planned clinical trials were discontinued prior to completion and prior to determination of a maximum tolerated dose. Both of these trials were discontinued by the former sponsor, BMS, because of a change in priorities within BMS’ portfolio. We will not receive regulatory approval for SNS-032 unless we are able to deliver therapeutically active doses of SNS-032 while keeping toxicities at acceptable levels. In our existing Phase 1 clinical trial, we are delivering the drug on a daily basis in a one-hour infusion for five consecutive days. There is a significant risk that this dose and regimen may not allow us to achieve efficacious exposure in the absence of dose-limiting toxicity, and thus SNS-032 may not advance as a single agent therapeutic. In our Phase 1 clinical trial of SNS-032 in B-cell lymphoid malignancies, we are aware that SNS-032 has the potential to kill a large number of cancer cells rapidly and all at once and the contents of those cells may be released into a patient’s bloodstream. This may result in a higher risk of a severe complication called tumor lysis syndrome. If tumor lysis syndrome occurs, some chemicals in a patient’s blood, such as potassium, uric acid and phosphate levels will rise, whereas some others like calcium may decline. Tumor lysis syndrome, if severe enough, may result in kidney failure and without treatment, can be life-threatening. We are aware that this severe complication has a higher risk of occurring early in the course of treatment and we are taking measures, which may not be effective, to prevent, monitor and treat this complication should it occur. 23 In addition, in clinical trials to date SNS-032 has demonstrated variable pharmacokinetics, or PK, which is the measure of the concentration of drug in the bloodstream over time. The PK variability results in differences in drug exposure between patients, and in some cases in the same patient, who are administered the same dose of SNS-032. Dose levels in Phase 2 clinical trials will be selected primarily based on safety criteria. Because of the observed PK variability between and among patients, we believe that there is a risk that some patients may receive sub-therapeutic exposure, limiting the opportunity to show activity and efficacy for SNS-032. As with other product candidates in the biotechnology industry at this stage of development, even if we are able to find adequate doses and schedules from our planned Phase 2 clinical trials, we will be required to conduct extensive additional clinical trials before we are able to seek regulatory approval to market SNS-032. If we fail to maintain our existing, or enter into new, strategic collaborations, we may have to reduce or delay our product candidate development or increase our expenditures. Our business model is based in part upon entering into strategic collaborations for discovery and/or development of some of our product candidates. In particular, we are substantially dependent on our strategic collaboration with Biogen Idec to discover, develop and commercialize small molecule inhibitors of Raf kinase and up to five additional targets. The agreement may be terminated by Biogen Idec without cause at any time upon 90 days’ written notice. If we are not able to maintain this collaboration with Biogen Idec or our other existing collaborations, or establish and maintain additional strategic collaborations of similar scope: · the development of our current or future product candidates may be terminated or delayed; · our cash expenditures related to development of our current or future product candidates would increase significantly; · we may be required to hire additional employees or otherwise develop expertise, such as sales and marketing expertise, for which we have not budgeted; · we will bear all of the risk related to the development of each of our current and future product candidates; and · we may be unable to meet demand for any future products that we may develop. In that event, we would likely be required to limit the size or scope of one or more of our programs. The results of preclinical studies and clinical trials may not satisfy the requirements of the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Prior to receiving approval to commercialize any of our product candidates in the United States or abroad, we and our collaboration partners must demonstrate with substantial evidence from well-controlled clinical trials, and to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities abroad, that such product candidates are safe and effective for their intended uses. The results from preclinical studies and clinical trials can be interpreted in different ways. Even if we and our collaboration partners believe the preclinical or clinical data for our product candidates are promising, such data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Administering any of our product candidates to humans may produce undesirable side effects, which could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of our product candidates and result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. 24 Our approach to developing cancer therapeutics by inhibiting cyclin-dependent kinases, Aurora kinases and Raf kinases has not been clinically validated and may not be successful. We have programs to develop small molecule inhibitors of CDK, Aurora and Raf kinases for the treatment of cancer. SNS-032 is a CDK inhibitor, and SNS-314 is an Aurora kinase inhibitor. The therapeutic benefit of inhibiting CDK, Aurora or Raf kinases in the treatment of human cancer has not been established definitively. Although a competitive kinase inhibitor, Nexavar®, has recently been approved and is commencing commercial use, this compound inhibits Raf and other kinases and its non-Raf kinase activities may be responsible for its efficacy. In addition, there are conflicting scientific reports regarding the reliance or necessity of CDK2 in the cell-cycle. Although several other companies have CDK and Aurora kinase programs, we are not aware of any candidates that have demonstrated therapeutic benefit in clinical testing. If CDK, Aurora or Raf kinase inhibition is not an effective treatment of human cancer, SNS-032, SNS-314 and any other drug candidates from these programs may have little or no commercial value. The failure to enroll patients for clinical trials may cause delays in developing our product candidates. We may encounter delays if we or our collaboration partners are unable to enroll enough patients to complete clinical trials. Patient enrollment depends on many factors, including, the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the trial. Moreover, when one product candidate is evaluated in multiple clinical trials simultaneously, patient enrollment in ongoing trials can be adversely effected by negative results from completed trials. Our product candidates are focused in oncology, which can be a difficult patient population to recruit. Without exception, oncology patients have failed treatment in first and second line treatment before enrolling in a study of an investigational product candidate. We rely on a third party to manufacture our product candidates, including SNS-595, SNS-032 and SNS-314, and depend on a single supplier for SNS-595 and SNS-032. There is a limited number of manufacturers that are capable of manufacturing the active ingredient of SNS-595. We do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities and lack the capability to manufacture any of our product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. As a result, we rely on third parties to manufacture both the active pharmaceutical ingredients, or API, and drug products for SNS-595, SNS-032 and SNS-314. The APIs are classified as toxic substances, limiting the available manufacturers. We believe that there are at least five contract manufacturers in North America with suitable capabilities for API manufacture, and at least four that can manufacture our drug products. If our third-party manufacturers are unable or unwilling to produce API, we will need to establish contracts with other suppliers. However, establishing a relationship with an alternative supplier would likely delay our ability to produce API for six to nine months, during which time we will rely on current inventory to supply our drug product manufacturing activities. We expect to continue to depend on third-party contract manufacturers for the foreseeable future. Our product candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing. A contract manufacturer is subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. Our contract manufacturer’s failure to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards in compliance with cGMP regulations could result in manufacturing errors resulting in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or interruptions of production or failures in product testing or delivery, delay or prevention of filing or approval of marketing applications for our products, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business. 25 To date, our product candidates have been manufactured in small quantities for preclinical studies and clinical trials. Prior to one of our product candidates being approved for commercial sale, we will need to manufacture that product in larger quantities. Significant scale-up of manufacturing will be accompanied by significant validation studies, which will be reviewed by the FDA prior to approval. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch may be delayed or there may be a shortage in commercial supply. Any performance failure on the part of a contract manufacturer could delay clinical development or regulatory approval of our product candidates or commercialization of our future products, depriving us of potential product revenue and resulting in additional losses. In addition, our dependence on a third parties for manufacturing may adversely affect our future profit margins. Our ability to replace an existing manufacturer may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer before it can begin manufacturing our product candidates for commercial sale. Such approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. It may be difficult or impossible for us to identify and engage a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all. We expect to significantly expand our clinical research and development and marketing capabilities, and any difficulties retaining key personnel or managing this growth could disrupt our operations. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and technical staff. We expect to significantly expand our clinical research and development and marketing capabilities by increasing expenditures in these areas, hiring additional employees and expanding the scope of our current operations. Future growth will require us to continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to retain, recruit and train additional qualified personnel, which may impose a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. The competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense. We are highly dependent on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly-qualified management, clinical and scientific personnel. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to retain key personnel or manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to implement our business plan. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, litigation will be costly and time consuming and could prevent us from developing or commercializing our future products. Our commercial success depends on not infringing the patents and proprietary rights of other parties and not breaching any collaboration or other agreements we have entered into with regard to our technologies and product candidates. Numerous third-party U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending applications exist in the area of kinases, including CDK, Aurora and Raf kinases for which we have research programs. Because patent applications can take several years to issue, there may be pending applications that may result in issued patents that cover our technologies or product candidates. For example, some pending patent applications contain broad claims that could represent freedom to operate limitations for some of our kinase programs should they be issued unchanged. If we wish to use the technology or compound claimed in issued and unexpired patents owned by others, we will need to obtain a license from the owner, enter into litigation to challenge the validity of the patents or incur the risk of litigation in the event that the owner asserts that we infringe its patents. 26 If a third party asserts that we infringe its patents or other proprietary rights, we could face a number of issues that could seriously harm our competitive position, including: · infringement and other intellectual property claims, which would be costly and time consuming to litigate, whether or not the claims have merit, and which could delay the regulatory approval process and divert management’s attention from our business; · substantial damages for past infringement, which we may have to pay if a court determines that our product candidates or technologies infringe a competitor’s patent or other proprietary rights; · a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing our technologies or future drugs unless the holder licenses the patent or other proprietary rights to us, which it is not required to do; and · if a license is available from a third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents or other proprietary rights. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than our future products, our commercial opportunities will be negatively impacted. The life sciences industry is highly competitive, and we face significant competition from many pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are researching and marketing products designed to address cancer and other unmet medical needs. We are developing small molecule therapeutics that will compete with other drugs and therapies that currently exist or are being developed. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and drug development resources than we do. Large pharmaceutical companies in particular have extensive experience in clinical testing and in obtaining regulatory approvals for drugs. These companies also have significantly greater research capabilities than we do. In addition, many universities and private and public research institutes are active in cancer, Alzheimer’s and inflammation research, some of which are in direct competition with us. Our product candidates will compete with a number of drugs that are currently marketed or in development that also target proliferating cells. These drugs include marketed products, such as irinotecan, doxorubicin and taxanes, which are generic and widely available, and many other cell-cycle inhibitors that have been shown to be effective anti-cancer agents. To compete effectively with these agents, our product candidates will need to demonstrate advantages that lead to improved clinical efficacy compared to these competitive products. We also compete with other companies that may be pursuing drug discovery using other technologies, including fragment-based technologies. We believe that our ability to successfully compete will depend on, among other things: · our ability to develop novel compounds with attractive pharmaceutical properties and to secure and protect intellectual property rights based on our innovations; · the efficacy, safety and reliability of our product candidates; · the speed at which we develop our product candidates; · our ability to design and successfully execute appropriate clinical trials; · our ability to maintain a good relationship with regulatory authorities; · the timing and scope of regulatory approvals; · our ability to manufacture and sell commercial quantities of future products to the market; and · acceptance of future products by physicians and other healthcare providers. 27 If our competitors market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than our future products, if any, or that reach the market sooner than our future products, if any, we may not achieve commercial success. In addition, the biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Because our research approach integrates many technologies, it may be difficult for us to stay abreast of the rapid changes in each technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we may be unable to compete effectively. Technological advances or products developed by our competitors may render our technologies or product candidates obsolete. Our proprietary Tethering® drug discovery approach is experimental and may not discover any therapeutic compounds of commercial value. We have developed a proprietary drug discovery approach called “Tethering®.” Tethering® is a process whereby a target protein known to be involved in a disease process is engineered to facilitate the binding of small drug fragments. Once a small fragment is identified, the fragment is built out using the target protein’s surface as a template to make a new full-size therapeutic compound. Tethering® is unproven as a drug discovery approach. We have only conducted preclinical studies of product candidates discovered through Tethering®. Our Tethering® drug discovery approach may not identify any therapeutic compounds of commercial value. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials for SNS-595 and SNS-032 and plan to rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials for SNS-314. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize SNS-595, SNS-032, SNS-314 or any of our other product candidates. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for SNS-595, SNS-032, SNS-314 or any other product candidate. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to conduct our planned and existing clinical trials in the United States, Canada and Europe of our product candidates for which we do not have a collaboration. If the third parties conducting our clinical trials do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines or need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical trial protocols or for any other reason, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the product candidate being tested in such trials. The commercial success of our collaborations depends in part on the development and marketing efforts of our collaboration partners, over which we have limited control. If our collaborations are unsuccessful, our potential to develop and commercialize products through our collaborations, and to generate future revenue from the sale of these products, would be significantly reduced. Our dependence on collaboration arrangements subjects our company to a number of risks. Our ability to develop and commercialize drugs that we develop with our collaboration partners depends on our collaboration partners’ ability to establish the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, obtain and maintain regulatory approvals and achieve market acceptance of a product once commercialized. Our collaboration partners may elect to delay or terminate development of one or more product candidates, independently develop products that compete with ours, or fail to commit sufficient resources to the marketing and distribution of products developed through their collaborations with us. In the event that one or more of our collaboration partners fails to diligently develop or commercialize a product candidate covered by one of our collaboration agreements, we may have the right to terminate our partner’s rights to such product candidate but we will not receive any future revenue from that product candidate unless we are able to find another partner or commercialize the product candidate on our own, which is likely to 28 result in significant additional expense. Business combinations, significant changes in business strategy, litigation and/or financial difficulties may also adversely affect the willingness or ability of one or more of our collaboration partners to complete their obligations under our collaboration agreements. If our collaboration partners fail to perform in the manner we expect, our potential to develop and commercialize products through our collaborations, and to generate future revenue from the sale of these products, would be significantly reduced. If conflicts of interest arise between our collaboration partners and us, any of them may act in their self-interest, which may be adverse to our interests. If a conflict of interest arises between us and one or more of our collaboration partners, they may act in their own self-interest and not in the interest of our company or our stockholders. Some of our collaboration partners are conducting, and any of our future collaboration partners may conduct, multiple product development efforts within the disease area that is the subject of collaboration with our company. In some of our collaborations, we have agreed not to conduct, independently or with any third party, any research that is competitive with the research conducted under our collaborations. Our collaboration partners, however, may develop, either alone or with others, products in related fields that are competitive with the product candidates that are the subject of these collaborations. Competing products, either developed by our collaboration partners or to which our collaboration partners have rights, may result in their withdrawal of support for our product candidates. If one or more of our collaboration partners were to breach or terminate their collaboration agreements with us or otherwise fail to perform their obligations thereunder in a timely manner, the preclinical or clinical development or commercialization of the affected product candidates or research programs could be delayed or terminated. We do not know whether our current or any future collaboration partners will pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative product candidates, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors, as a means for developing treatments for the diseases targeted by collaboration agreements with our company. Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our technologies and product candidates. Our commercial success will depend on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection for our technologies and product candidates in the United States and other countries. As of December 31, 2006, we owned or had exclusive rights to 166 issued U.S. and foreign patents and 181 pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and future products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We apply for patents covering both our technologies and product candidates, as we deem appropriate. However, we may fail to apply for patents on important technologies or product candidates in a timely fashion, or at all. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products and technologies. In addition, we generally do not control the patent prosecution of subject matter that we license to and from others. Accordingly, we are unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we would over our own. Moreover, the patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. As a result, the validity and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, we do not know whether: · we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued patents and pending patent applications; · we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; 29 · others will independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; · any of our or our licensors’ pending patent applications will result in issued patents; · any of our or our licensors’ patents will be valid or enforceable; · any patents issued to us or our licensors and collaboration partners will provide us with any competitive advantages, or will be challenged by third parties; · we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or · the patents of others will have an adverse effect on our business. We also rely on trade secrets to protect some of our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to maintain. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our or our collaboration partners’ employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors. Enforcement of claims that a third party has illegally obtained and is using trade secrets is expensive, time consuming and uncertain. In addition, foreign courts are sometimes less willing than U.S. courts to protect trade secrets. If our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how, we would not be able to assert our trade secrets against them and our business could be harmed. The composition of matter patents covering SNS-595 are due to expire in 2015. Even if SNS-595 is approved by the FDA, we may not be able to recover our development costs prior to the expiration of these patents. The composition of our lead product candidate, SNS-595, is covered by U.S. patent 5,817,669 and its counterpart patents and patent applications in 43 foreign jurisdictions. U.S. patent 5,817,669 is due to expire on October 6, 2015, and most of its foreign counterparts are due to expire on June 6, 2015. We do not know whether patent term extensions and data exclusivity periods will be available in the future. SNS-595 must undergo extensive clinical trials before it can be approved by the FDA. We do not know when, if ever, SNS-595 will be approved by the FDA. Even if SNS-595 is approved by the FDA in the future, we may not have sufficient time to commercialize SNS-595 to enable us to recover our development costs prior to the expiration of the U.S. and foreign patents covering SNS-595. Our obligation to pay royalties to Dainippon, the company from which we licensed SNS-595, may extend beyond the patent expiration, which will further erode the profitability of this product. The composition of matter patents covering SNS-032 are due to expire in 2018 in the U.S. Even if SNS-032 is approved by the FDA, we may not be able to recover our development costs prior to the expiration of these patents. The composition of our product candidate SNS-032 is covered by U.S. patent 6,515,004 and its counterpart patents and patent applications in 33 foreign jurisdictions. U.S. patent 6,515,004 is due to expire on October 21, 2018, and most of its foreign counterparts are due to expire on May 9, 2021. We do not know whether patent term extensions and data exclusivity periods will be available in the future. SNS-032 must undergo extensive clinical trials before it can be approved by the FDA. We do not know when, if ever, SNS-032 will be approved by the FDA. Even if SNS-032 is approved by the FDA in the future, we may not have sufficient time to commercialize SNS-032 to enable us to recover our development costs prior to the expiration of the U.S. and foreign patents covering SNS-032. Our obligation to pay royalties to BMS, the company from which we licensed SNS-032, may extend beyond the patent expiration, which will further erode the profitability of this product. 30 We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of our employees’ former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize our product candidates, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. We currently have limited marketing staff and no sales or distribution organization. If we are unable to develop a sales and marketing and distribution capability on our own or through collaborations with marketing partners, we will not be successful in commercializing our future products. We currently have no sales or distribution capabilities and limited marketing staff. We intend to establish our own sales and marketing organization with technical expertise and supporting distribution capabilities to commercialize some future products, which will be expensive and time consuming. Any failure or delay in the development of our internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities would adversely impact the commercialization of these products. With respect to other future products, we plan to collaborate with third parties that have direct sales forces and established distribution systems. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenue is likely to be lower than if we directly marketed or sold our products. In addition, any revenue we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and are only partially within our control. If we are unable to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms or at all, we may not be able to successfully commercialize these future products. If we are not successful in commercializing our future products, either on our own or through collaborations with one or more third parties, our future product revenue will suffer and we may incur significant additional losses. We depend on various scientific consultants and advisors for the success and continuation of our research and development efforts. We work extensively with various scientific consultants and advisors. The potential success of our drug discovery and development programs depends, in part, on continued collaborations with certain of these consultants and advisors. We rely on certain of these consultants and advisors for expertise in our research, regulatory and clinical efforts. Our scientific advisors are not our employees and may have commitments and obligations to other entities that may limit their availability to us. We do not know if we will be able to maintain such consulting agreements or that such scientific advisors will not enter into other arrangements with competitors, any of which could have a detrimental impact on our research objectives and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our facilities are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other catastrophic disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to cease or curtail operations. Our facilities are located in the San Francisco Bay Area near known earthquake fault zones and are vulnerable to significant damage from earthquakes. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including fires, floods, power loss, communications failures and similar events. We are in the process of designing and implementing a disaster relief plan. However, even if such a plan were in place, if any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities may be seriously or 31 completely impaired and our research could be lost or destroyed. In addition, the unique nature of our research activities and of much of our equipment could make it difficult for us to recover from a disaster. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. New or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. Complying with evolving interpretations of new or changed legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and procedures, and may divert management time and attention from revenue generating to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may also be harmed. In addition, it has become more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. Risks Related to Our Industry The regulatory approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and may prevent us or our collaboration partners from obtaining approvals for the commercialization of some or all of our product candidates. The research, testing, manufacturing, selling and marketing of drug candidates are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and other countries, which regulations differ from country to country. Neither we nor our collaboration partners are permitted to market our product candidates in the United States until we receive approval of an NDA from the FDA. Neither we nor our collaboration partners have received marketing approval for any of our product candidates. Obtaining approval of an NDA can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. In addition, failure to comply with FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements may subject our company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizure or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production, and refusal to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs. Regulatory approval of an NDA or NDA supplement is not guaranteed, and the approval process is expensive and may take several years. Furthermore, the development process for oncology products may take longer than other therapeutic areas. The FDA also has substantial discretion in the drug approval process. Despite the time and expense exerted, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon clinical trials or to repeat or perform additional preclinical studies and clinical trials. The number of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for FDA approval varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition that the drug candidate is designed to address, and the regulations applicable to any particular drug candidate. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including: · a drug candidate may not be deemed safe or effective; · FDA officials may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical trials sufficient; · the FDA might not approve our or our third-party manufacturer’s processes or facilities; or · the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations. 32 Even if we receive regulatory approval to market our product candidates, the market may not be receptive to our products. Even if our product candidates obtain regulatory approval, resulting products, if any, may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and/or the medical community. We believe that the degree of market acceptance will depend on a number of factors, including: · timing of market introduction of competitive products; · efficacy of our product; · prevalence and severity of any side effects; · potential advantages or disadvantages over alternative treatments; · strength of marketing and distribution support; · price of our future products, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments; and · availability of reimbursement from health maintenance organizations and other third-party payors. The potential toxicity of single and repeated doses of SNS-595 has been explored in a number of animal studies that suggest the mechanism-based dose-limiting toxicities in humans receiving SNS-595 may be similar to some of those observed in approved cytotoxic agents, including temporary toxicity to bone marrow cells, the gastrointestinal system and other systems with rapidly dividing cells. In our Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials, we have witnessed the following side effects, irrespective of severity, ranging from mild to more severe: lowered white blood cell count that may lead to a serious or possibly life-threatening infection, hair loss, fatigue, nausea with or without vomiting, lowered platelet count, which may lead to an increase in bruising or bleeding, lowered red blood cell count (anemia), weakness, tiredness, shortness of breath and diarrhea. In previous clinical trials conducted by BMS, SNS-032 has been administered by IV infusion on a once-a-week and once-every-three-weeks basis. We believe that SNS-032 will need to be administered on a more frequent basis to show efficacy. Our current Phase 1 clinical trial design for SNS-032 includes administration of SNS-032 by a one-hour IV infusion once a day for five consecutive days, followed by 16 days without the drug. This IV regimen is inconvenient for patients, and commercial success may depend on developing an effective oral formulation of SNS-032. Should the development of an oral formulation be necessary, it could be costly and result in delays for the advancement of the program, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to develop an effective oral formulation for SNS-032. In our Phase 1 clinical trial, we have witnessed the following side effects, irrespective of severity, ranging from mild to more severe: fatigue, nausea with or without vomiting, diarrhea, anorexia, injection site reaction and inflammation of the pharynx and the mucous lining of the mouth. If our future products fail to achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenue to achieve or sustain profitability. Even if we receive regulatory approval for a product candidate, we will be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense and limit our ability to commercialize our future products. Any regulatory approvals that we or our collaboration partners receive for our product candidates may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. In addition, if the FDA approves any of our product candidates, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for the product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the product, including 33 adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the product, and could include withdrawal of the product from the market. The FDA’s policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our future products and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. The coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved drugs is uncertain, and failure to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement could limit our ability to market any future products we may develop and decrease our ability to generate revenue. There is significant uncertainty related to the third party coverage and reimbursement of newly approved drugs both nationally and internationally. The commercial success of our future products in both domestic and international markets depends on whether third-party coverage and reimbursement is available for the ordering of our future products by the medical profession for use by their patients. Medicare, Medicaid, health maintenance organizations and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to manage healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drugs and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our future products. These payors may not view our future products as cost-effective, and reimbursement may not be available to consumers or may not be sufficient to allow our future products to be marketed on a competitive basis. Likewise, legislative or regulatory efforts to control or reduce healthcare costs or reform government healthcare programs could result in lower prices or rejection of our future products. Changes in coverage and reimbursement policies or healthcare cost containment initiatives that limit or restrict reimbursement for our future products may reduce any future product revenue. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing our products abroad. We intend to market our future products in international markets. In order to market our future products in Canada, the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals. We have had limited interactions with foreign regulatory authorities, and the approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional testing at significant cost, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. We may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to significant liabilities. We use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business and are subject to a variety of federal, state and regional local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. Although we believe our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials and waste products comply with these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of hazardous materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any 34 resulting damages, and any liability could significantly exceed our insurance coverage, which is limited to $100,000 for pollution cleanup, and we are uninsured for third-party contamination injury. We may be subject to costly claims related to our clinical trials and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. Because we conduct clinical trials in humans, we face the risk that the use of our product candidates will result in adverse side effects. We cannot predict the possible harms or side effects that may result from our clinical trials. Although we have clinical trial liability insurance for up to $10.0 million, our insurance may be insufficient to cover any such events. We do not know whether we will be able to continue to obtain clinical trial coverage on acceptable terms, or at all. We may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limit of, our insurance coverage. There is also a risk that third parties that we have agreed to indemnify could incur liability. Any litigation arising from our clinical trials, even if we were ultimately successful, would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and may create adverse publicity. Foreign governments often impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability. We intend to seek approval to market our future products in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. If we obtain approval in one or more foreign jurisdictions, we will be subject to rules and regulations in those jurisdictions relating to our product. In some foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, prescription drug pricing is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a drug candidate. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our future product to other available therapies. If reimbursement of our future products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. We sold shares of common stock in our IPO in September 2005 at a price of $7.00 per share, and our stock has subsequently traded as low as $4.03 per share. An active and liquid trading market for our common stock may not develop or be sustained. Factors that could cause volatility in the market price of our common stock include, but are not limited to: · results from, and any delays in or discontinuance of, our clinical trial programs, including our ongoing and planned clinical trials for SNS-595, SNS-032 and SNS-314; · announcements of FDA non-approval of our product candidates, including SNS-595, SNS-032 or SNS-314, delays in filing regulatory documents with the FDA or other regulatory agencies, or delays in the review process by the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies; · failure or discontinuation of any of our research programs; · announcements relating to future collaborations or our existing collaborations with Biogen Idec, Johnson & Johnson PRD and Merck; · delays in the commercialization of our future products; · market conditions in the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors and issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; · actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; 35 · developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; · introduction of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · issues in manufacturing our product candidates or future products; · market acceptance of our future products; · deviations in our operating results from the estimates of analysts; · third-party healthcare reimbursement policies; · FDA or other U.S. or foreign regulatory actions affecting us or our industry; · litigation or public concern about the safety of our product candidates or future drugs; · sales of our common stock by our officers, directors or significant stockholders; and · additions or departures of key personnel. In addition, the stock markets in general, and the markets for pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that have been often unrelated to the operating performance of the issuer. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price or liquidity of our common stock. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the issuer. If any of our stockholders were to bring such a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and the attention of our management would be diverted from the operation of our business. The ownership of our common stock is highly concentrated, and your interests may conflict with the interests of our existing stockholders. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates, together with our current significant stockholders, beneficially owned approximately 60.6% of our outstanding common stock as of February 9, 2007. Accordingly, these stockholders, acting as a group, have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction. These stockholders could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. If we sell shares of our common stock in future financings, common stockholders may experience immediate dilution and, as a result, our stock price may go down. We may from time to time issue additional shares of common stock at a discount from the current trading price of our common stock. As a result, our common stockholders would experience immediate dilution upon the purchase of any shares of our common stock sold at such discount. In addition, as opportunities present themselves, we may enter into financing or similar arrangements in the future, including the issuance of debt securities, preferred stock or common stock. In March 2006, we issued common stock and warrants in a private placement resulting in gross proceeds of approximately $45.3 million. In November 2006, we filed a $75 million universal shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. The registration statement which was declared effective on December 8, 2006, will enable the Company to issue registered securities from time to time. If we issue common stock or securities convertible into common stock, our common stockholders could experience dilution. 36 Provisions of our charter documents or Delaware law could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult to change management. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempt by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include: · a classified board of directors so that not all directors are elected at one time; · a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent; · limitations on our stockholders’ ability to call special meetings of stockholders; · an advance notice requirement for stockholder proposals and nominations; and · the authority of our board of directors to issue preferred stock with such terms as our board of directors may determine. In addition, Delaware law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person who, together with its affiliates, owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Provisions in our charter and other provisions of Delaware law could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders’ sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Changes in financial accounting standards related to share-based payments are expected to continue to have a significant effect on our reported results. On January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. FAS 123 (revised 2004) (FAS 123R), “Share-Based Payment,” which requires that we record compensation expense in the statement of operations for share-based payments, such as employee stock options, using the fair value method. The adoption of this new standard is expected to continue to have a significant effect on our reported results of operations, although it will not affect our cash flows, and could adversely impact our ability to provide accurate guidance on our future reported financial results due to the variability of the factors used to estimate the values of share-based payments. If factors change and we employ different assumptions or different valuation methods in the application of FAS 123R in future periods, the compensation expense that we record under FAS 123R may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period, which could negatively affect our stock price and our stock price volatility. 37 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 