Item 1A. Risk Factors The following describes some of the risk factors associated with UCBH Holdings, Inc. and subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the “Company”, “we”, “us” and “our”): Our business strategy includes the execution of growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We expect to experience growth in both loans and deposits as well as in our level of operations. Achieving our growth targets will require us to attract customers that currently do business at other financial institutions in our existing and future markets. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to attract and retain experienced management staff, the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our markets and our ability to effectively manage our growth. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our growth goals. Fluctuations in interest rates may negatively affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Banking companies’ earnings depend largely on the relationship between the cost of funds, primarily deposits and borrowings, and the yield on earning assets, primarily loans and investments. This relationship, known as the interest rate margin, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by economic and competitive factors, which influence interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and the level of nonperforming assets. Fluctuations in interest rates will also affect the customer’s demand for the products and services that we offer. The Company’s operations are subject to fluctuations in interest rates, to the degree that its interest-bearing liabilities may reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than their interest-earning assets. Given our current volume and mix of interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning assets, the Company’s net interest margin would be expected to increase during times of rising interest rates and, conversely, to decline during times of falling interest rates. As a result, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in a falling interest rate environment, we are subject to the risk of higher loan prepayments from our loan portfolio, which in turn may have a negative impact on our net interest margin. Risks Relating to Use of Estimates and Valuations Management makes various estimates that affect reported amounts and disclosures in our financial statements. These estimates are used in measuring the fair value of certain financial instruments, accounting for goodwill and identifiable intangibles, establishing our provision for loan losses, valuing equity-based compensation awards and assessing the realizability of deferred income taxes. Such estimates are based on available information and on judgments by management of the Company. As such, actual results could differ from these estimates, and the difference could have a material effect on our financial statements. Where available, fair value is based on observable market prices or parameters or derived from such prices or parameters. Where observable prices or inputs are not available, valuations from outsourced service providers are generally obtained to assist the company. The valuations performed by the service providers involve some level of estimation and judgment, the degree of which is dependent on the price transparency of the financial instrument being valued and the financial instruments’ complexity. In particular, the residual tranche on our collateralized mortgage backed securities arising from our commercial real estate loan securitization, certain collateralized debt obligations and mortgage related asset backed securities, and certain other investments have no direct observable prices, and as a result, the related valuations require significant estimation and judgment and are therefore subject to significant subjectivity. Reliance on the estimation and judgment process increases in adverse market conditions with decreased liquidity, such as those experienced during the second half of 2007, and expected to continue for 2008. 14 Table of Contents Our business is subject to the success of the state, national and international economies in which we operate. Because the majority of our borrowers and depositors are individuals and businesses located and doing business in the states of California, Georgia, Massachusetts, New York, Texas and Washington, our success depends on the strength of these economies. In addition, as we expand into other areas in the United States and into China, we will become increasingly dependent on the local economies in those markets, as well. Adverse economic conditions in these markets could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions, such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control, may adversely affect our profitability. In addition, any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in our markets could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We believe that our capital resources will satisfy these capital requirements for the foreseeable future. However, we may at some point need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. If we cannot attract deposits, our growth may be inhibited. We plan to increase significantly the level of our assets, including our loan portfolio. Our ability to increase our assets depends in large part on our ability to attract additional deposits at competitive rates. We intend to seek additional deposits by continuing to establish and strengthening our personal relationships with our existing customers and by offering deposit products that are competitive with those offered by other financial institutions in our markets. We cannot provide assurance that these efforts will be successful. Our inability to attract additional deposits at competitive rates could have a material effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits at their maturity and support our future growth. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of our depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposits. As we continue to grow, we are likely to become more dependent on these sources, which include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, proceeds from the sale of loans, brokered certificates of deposit, federal funds, repurchase lines, and a line of credit from another financial institution. Our financial flexibility could be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. We may experience further writedowns on our financial instruments related to volatile and illiquid market conditions. The Company recorded a $11.6 million writedown on two of its REIT TPS collateralized debt obligations (“CDO”) during the fourth quarter of 2007. We continue to have exposure in our investment securities portfolio and as market conditions continue to evolve, the fair value of these financial instruments could further deteriorate. In addition, recent market volatility has made it difficult to determine the fair value of certain of our investment securities and mortgage servicing rights. Further, cashflow shortfalls arising from actual prepayments and credit 15 Table of Contents defaults exceeding our original estimates could in turn trigger other than temporary impairment in certain of our investment securities. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the value of these investment securities and mortgage servicing rights in future periods. Any of these factors could require us to take further writedowns in our investment securities portfolio, which could adversely affect our results of operations and regulatory capital in the future. Intense competition exists for loans and deposits. The banking and financial services business is highly competitive. Competitive pressure is increasing as a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. The Company must compete for loans, deposits and customers with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies, money market funds, credit unions and other nonbank financial service providers. Many of these competitors are much larger in total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets and offer a broader array of financial services than we do. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete effectively in its markets and the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if circumstances affecting the nature or level of competition change. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level that is adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the respective balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. If the value of real estate in our primary market areas were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In the past three years, we have been growing our commercial business and construction loan portfolios. In addition, with a significant portion of our loans continuing to be in the state of California, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans. A decline in property values would diminish our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral, making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would reduce our future profits and regulatory capital. Real estate values are affected by various factors in addition to local economic conditions, including, among other things, changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. The loan portfolio may not perform as expected. The Company’s performance and prospects will depend to a significant extent on the performance of its loan portfolio. There are a number of factors that could negatively impact the performance of the loan portfolio including, among others, the general political and economic conditions in the Company’s markets, significant changes in the mix of our loan products, significant changes in the interest rate environment, pressures from products and services from competitors and on any negative changes in the financial condition of the individual borrowers. In addition, to the extent that the Company does not retain the customers that it acquires in its acquisitions or incurs additional expenses in retaining them, there could be adverse effects on the Company’s future consolidated financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to operational risk and operational events that could adversely affect our business. The Company’s business is highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across geographic boundaries, both domestically and internationally. The Company performs the functions required to operate in different geographies either on our own or through agreements with third party 16 Table of Contents service providers. The Company relies on the ability of its employees and its internal systems and information systems to process a high volume of transactions. In the event of a failure or improper operation of the Company or a third party service provider’s systems, or improper action by employees or third parties, the Company could suffer financial loss, business disruption, regulatory intervention or reputational damage, which in turn could adversely impact our financial condition. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of future acquisitions or branch expansions, the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. We have announced that our future growth strategy could include acquiring other financial service companies. In addition, we intend to establish additional overseas offices and branches in the Asia Pacific region. While we have just completed The Chinese American Bank and Business Development Bank Ltd. acquisitions, we could encounter unplanned difficulties associated with integration of the operations with current acquisitions or any new acquisitions or branch expansions. These difficulties could include retaining customers, successful conversion of systems and processes, combining different corporate cultures, and retaining key employees. Any problems with integration would negatively impact the Company’s day-to-day operations and increase the costs associated with the acquisition/branch expansion, which, in turn, could negatively affect the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Unanticipated costs relating to the Company’s recent acquisitions could reduce its future earnings per share. To the extent we make acquisitions, we face numerous risks and uncertainties with respect to combining operational, accounting and data processing systems and management controls, and in integrating relationships with business partners and customers. We believe that we have reasonably estimated the likely costs of integrating the operations of our recent acquisitions. However, it is possible that unexpected transition costs or future operating expenses, as well as other types of unanticipated issues or developments, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s future results of operations and financial condition. There is no assurance that our recent acquisitions or any business we acquire in the future will be successfully integrated and result in all of the positive benefits anticipated. If we are not able to integrate successfully such acquisitions, there is a risk that our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, there is a risk that the goodwill arising form such acquisitions could be subject to potential impairment. The Company may engage in further expansion through new branch openings or acquisitions, which could adversely affect net income. The Company has disclosed its intention to take advantage of future expansion opportunities. There are risks associated with such expansion and, in particular, expansion through acquisitions. These risks include, among others, incorrectly assessing the asset quality of a bank acquired in a particular acquisition, encountering greater than anticipated costs of opening new branches or integrating acquired businesses, facing resistance from customers or employees, and being unable to profitably deploy assets acquired through expansion or in acquisitions. Additional country- and region-specific risks are associated with any expansion and acquisitions that take place outside the United States, including in China. To the extent UCBH issues capital stock in connection with additional acquisitions, these acquisitions and related stock issuances may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and share ownership. UCBH may issue additional capital stock in the future. To fund internal growth and future acquisitions, UCBH may offer shares of its common stock to the public and future acquirees. Any such offerings would have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and share ownership. In addition, there is no assurance that UCBH would be able to effectively utilize any additional capital in the manner that it has done so in the past. UCBH does not currently have any definitive understandings or plans to raise additional capital. 17 Table of Contents Changes in government regulation and monetary policy may have an unfavorable impact on the Company. The banking industry is subject to extensive federal and state supervision and regulation. Such regulations limit the manner in which the Company conducts its business, undertakes new investments and activities, and obtains financing. These regulations have been designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and consumers, and not to benefit holders of the Company’s common stock. Financial institution regulation has also been the subject of considerable legislation in recent years, and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, none of which is within our control. New legislation or changes in, or repeal of, existing laws may cause the Company’s consolidated results to differ materially from its historical performance. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects credit conditions for financial institutions, primarily through open market operations in United States government securities, the discount rate for bank borrowings, and bank reserve requirements. Any material change in these conditions would likely have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. In addition to the regulatory oversight in the United States of America, we are subject to regulation in China. As such, we are subject to intervention by regulatory authorities, such as the CBRC in China and by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority for our Hong Kong branch. Among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. Significant regulatory action against the Company could result in an adverse financial impact, cause significant reputational harm, or harm the Company’s business prospects. New laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients may also adversely impact the Company’s business. Defaults by larger financial institutions could adversely affect financial markets in general The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing and other relationships between such institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect the Company 18 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 