ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common stock. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline 22 due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Please see "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to raise additional capital in the near term, we may not be able to continue to operate as a going concern. We are advancing multiple product candidates through discovery and development. We will need to raise substantial additional capital to continue our discovery, development and commercialization activities. We will need to raise substantial additional capital in the near term to: •fund clinical trials and seek regulatory approvals; •continue our research and expand our development activities; •hire additional development personnel; •maintain, defend and expand the scope of our intellectual property portfolio; •implement additional internal systems and infrastructure; •pursue the development of additional product candidates; and •build or access manufacturing and commercialization capabilities. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to: •the rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials, preclinical studies and other discovery and research and development activities; •the economic and other terms and timing of any collaboration, licensing or other arrangements into which we may enter; •the costs associated with building or accessing manufacturing and commercialization capabilities; •the costs of acquiring or investing in businesses, product candidates and technologies; •the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; •the costs and timing of seeking and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; and •the effect of competing technological and market developments. We currently anticipate that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, together with revenues generated from our collaborations and available credit facilities, will be sufficient to fund our operations through approximately the middle of 2009. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue to finance our cash requirements, which we may never do, we expect to finance future cash needs primarily through public or private equity offerings, out-licensing development and/or commercialization rights to one or more of our product candidates, debt financings or strategic collaborations. We do not know whether additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Over the next eighteen months we expect to continue to advance our ongoing clinical trials of SNS-595 in ovarian cancer and AML, SNS-032 in CLL and MM and SNS-314 in solid tumors. If we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our clinical trials or research and development programs or conduct additional workforce reductions. For example, in August 2007, we announced that we reduced our workforce by approximately twenty-five percent and implemented a revised operating plan to focus our 23 efforts on generating definitive data from our lead programs while streamlining our operations and extending our financial resources. In addition, if we out-license or partner one or more of our product candidate programs prior to completion of a Phase 2 trial or at an earlier stage of development, this will likely lower the long-term economic value of such program or programs to our company. However, if we retain rights for a longer period with an expectation of improving our economic upside, we will not only incur substantial development expenditures, but also risk that our clinical trials may not generate data sufficient to support an out-license or partnering arrangement. Conditions affecting the equity market may make it more difficult and costly to raise additional capital. Currently, there is turmoil in the U.S. economy in part due to tightening credit markets. Banks have tightened their lending standards, investors are balking at buying new corporate bonds and economic growth appears to have begun to slow. Factors contributing to a slowing economy appear to be reduced credit availability, falling house prices and rising energy and food prices. If these factors affect equity markets, our ability to raise capital may be adversely affected. We have incurred losses since inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We may not ever achieve or sustain profitability. We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history as a public company. We are not profitable and have incurred losses in each year since our inception in 1998. We do not currently have any products that have been approved for marketing, and we continue to incur substantial research and development and general and administrative expenses related to our operations. Our net loss for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $38.8 million, $31.2 million, and $27.5 million (excluding a preferred stock deemed dividend of $88.1 million), respectively. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $279.0 million, including the $88.1 million preferred stock deemed dividend related to our IPO in September 2005. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and we expect these losses to increase significantly, especially upon commencing Phase 3 clinical trials, as we continue our research activities and conduct development of, and seek regulatory approvals for, our product candidates, and commercialize any approved drugs. Our losses, among other things, have caused and will continue to cause our stockholders' equity and working capital to decrease. To date, we have derived substantially all of our revenue from collaboration agreements. The research phases for all but one of our revenue-generating collaboration agreements is completed, and the research phase of that agreement with Biogen Idec, if not extended, will end in August 2008. We can offer no assurance that we will enter into a new collaboration agreement in the near future that will result in revenue for us. We also do not anticipate that we will generate revenue from the sale of products for the foreseeable future. If our product candidates or those of our collaborators fail in clinical trials or do not gain regulatory approval, or if our future products do not achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. If we fail to enter into new strategic collaborations, we may have to reduce the scope of, or delay, our internal product candidate development programs. Our business model has been based in part upon entering into strategic collaborations for discovery and/or the development of some of our product candidates. The research phase of our strategic collaboration with Biogen Idec, the only one for which we currently receive research funding, expires in August 2008, unless renewed. In the absence of additional sources of capital which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, the development of our current or future product candidates may be reduced in scope, delayed or terminated. 24 There is a high risk that our drug discovery and development activities could be halted or significantly delayed for various reasons. Our product candidates are in the early stages of drug discovery or development and are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. We and our collaboration partners will need to conduct significant additional preclinical studies and clinical trials before we or our collaboration partners can demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In our industry, it is unlikely that the limited number of compounds that we have identified as potential product candidates will actually lead to successful product development efforts. Failure can occur at any stage of the process, and successful preclinical studies and early clinical trials do not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. We terminated two Phase 2 trials of SNS-595 in small cell and non-small cell lung cancer. To date, SNS-032 and SNS-314 have only been tested in humans in Phase 1 trials. None of our product candidates with collaboration parties have been tested in humans. In addition, product candidates in later stage trials may fail to show desired efficacy and safety traits despite having progressed through initial clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier trials. We do not know whether our ongoing clinical trials or any other future clinical trials with any of our product candidates will be completed on schedule, or at all, or whether our ongoing or planned clinical trials will begin on time. The commencement of our planned clinical trials could be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: •limited number of, and competition for, suitable patients with particular types of cancer for enrollment in clinical trials; •delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; •delays or failures in obtaining IRB approval to conduct a clinical trial at prospective sites; •delays or failures in reaching acceptable clinical trial agreement terms or clinical trial protocols with prospective sites; or •delays or failures in obtaining sufficient clinical materials. The completion of our clinical trials could also be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: •slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment; •failure of patients to complete the clinical trial; •unforeseen safety issues; •lack of efficacy during clinical trials; •inability or unwillingness of patients or clinical investigators to follow our clinical trial protocols; and •inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment. For example, due to potential complications from treatment in our Phase 1 clinical trial of SNS-032, we have provided patients enrolling in this clinical trial with in-patient hospital care. In addition to increasing costs to perform this clinical trial, we believe that this has resulted in difficulty in recruiting patients. Additionally, our clinical trials may be suspended or terminated at any time by the FDA, other regulatory authorities, ourselves or, in some cases, our collaboration partners. Any failure to complete, or significant delay in completing, clinical trials for our product candidates could harm our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates. 25 Our clinical trials for our lead product candidates, SNS-595, SNS-032 and SNS-314, may not demonstrate safety or efficacy or lead to regulatory approval. Our lead product candidates, SNS-595, SNS-032 and SNS-314, are small molecule therapeutics being developed for the treatment of certain types of cancer. Many cancer drugs promote cancer cell death by inhibiting cell proliferation, and commonly have a narrow dose range between efficacy and toxicity, commonly known as a "therapeutic window." We may select a dose for use in future clinical trials that may prove to be ineffective in treating cancer. If our clinical trials result in unacceptable toxicity or lack of efficacy, we may have to terminate further clinical trials. Even if we are able to find a proper dose that balances the toxicity and efficacy of one or more of our product candidates, we will be required to conduct extensive additional clinical trials before we are able to seek the regulatory approvals needed to market them. If clinical trials of SNS-595, SNS-032 and/or SNS-314 are halted, or if they do not show that these product candidates are safe and effective in the indications for which we are seeking regulatory approval, our future growth would be limited and we may not have any other product candidates to develop. Furthermore, our development strategy to date for SNS-032 and SNS-314 has been to first test the efficacy and toxicity of each product candidate as a single agent. We may determine that one or both of these product candidates are more effective and/or less toxic in combination with another approved cancer drug. While we are currently conducting a Phase 1b clinical trial of SNS-595, studying escalating doses of SNS-595 in combination with cytarabine in acute leukemias, it is possible that when therapeutic levels of SNS-595 are achieved the toxicity of the combined regimen may be not tolerated in patients. Likewise, each of our product candidates may only receive FDA and foreign approvals, if at all, in combination with another cancer drug. In addition to the risks described above, we are aware of risks that are specific to SNS-032. In previous Phase 1 clinical trials of SNS-032, significant safety risks were observed in patients who were administered SNS-032 on either a one-hour or a 24-hour infusion once every three weeks. For example, increases in certain phases of the cardiac cycle, known as the QT interval, or the corrected QT interval, or QTc, on the electrocardiograms of patients were observed in patients receiving the 24-hour infusion regimen. Increased QT intervals may be associated with increased risk for cardiac rhythm abnormalities, some of which can be serious, life-threatening events. In addition, pronounced, rapidly reversible decreases in white blood cells were observed following infusion under the one-hour infusion regimen, most likely associated with higher peak drug levels in this regimen. Further, some patients also experienced reversible liver toxicity, which limited the amount of drug that could be administered to those patients. Two of these planned clinical trials were discontinued prior to completion and prior to determination of a maximum tolerated dose by the former sponsor, BMS, we believe because of a change in priorities within BMS' portfolio. We will not receive regulatory approval for SNS-032 unless we are able to deliver therapeutically active doses of SNS-032 while keeping toxicities at acceptable levels. In a Phase 1 clinical trial of SNS-032 in patients with advanced solid tumors, we delivered the drug on a daily basis in a one-hour infusion for five consecutive days. However, this dose and regimen did not allow us to achieve expected efficacious exposure without dose-limiting toxicity, and therefore we decided not to advance SNS-032 at that time as a single-agent therapeutic in that patient population. In our ongoing Phase 1 clinical trial of SNS-032, we are aware that SNS-032 has the potential to kill a large number of cancer cells rapidly and all at once and the contents of those cells may be released into a patient's bloodstream. This may result in a higher risk of a severe complication called tumor lysis syndrome. If tumor lysis syndrome occurs, some chemicals in a patient's blood, such as potassium, uric acid and phosphate levels will rise, whereas some others like calcium may decline. Tumor lysis syndrome, if severe enough, may result in kidney failure and, without treatment, can be life-threatening. We are aware that this severe complication has a higher risk of occurring early in the 26 course of treatment and we are taking measures, which may not be effective, to prevent, monitor and treat this complication should it occur. In addition, in clinical trials to date SNS-032 has demonstrated variable pharmacokinetics ("PK"), which is the measure of the concentration of drug in the bloodstream over time. The PK variability results in differences in drug exposure between patients, and in some cases in the same patient, who are administered the same dose of SNS-032. Dose levels in Phase 2 clinical trials will be selected primarily based on safety criteria. Because of the observed PK variability between and among patients, we believe that there is a risk that some patients may receive sub-therapeutic exposure, limiting the opportunity to show activity and efficacy for SNS-032. As with other product candidates in the biotechnology industry at this stage of development, even if we are able to find adequate doses and schedules from our planned Phase 2 clinical trials, we will be required to conduct extensive additional clinical trials before we are able to seek regulatory approval to market SNS-032. The failure to enroll patients for clinical trials may cause delays in developing our product candidates. We may encounter delays if we or our collaboration partners are unable to enroll enough patients to complete clinical trials. Patient enrollment depends on many factors, including, the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the trial. Moreover, when one product candidate is evaluated in multiple clinical trials simultaneously, patient enrollment in ongoing trials can be adversely effected by negative results from completed trials. Our product candidates are focused in oncology, which can be a difficult patient population to recruit. The results of preclinical studies and clinical trials may not satisfy the requirements of the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Prior to receiving approval to commercialize any of our product candidates in the United States or abroad, we and our collaboration partners must demonstrate with substantial evidence from well-controlled clinical trials, to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities, that such product candidates are safe and effective for their intended uses. The results from preclinical studies and clinical trials can be interpreted in different ways. Even if we and our collaboration partners believe the preclinical or clinical data for our product candidates are promising, such data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Administering any of our product candidates to humans may produce undesirable side effects, which could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of our product candidates and result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. Our approach to developing cancer therapeutics by inhibiting cyclin-dependent kinases, Aurora kinases and Raf kinases has not been clinically validated and may not be successful. We have programs to develop small molecule inhibitors of CDKs, Aurora kinases and Raf kinases for the treatment of cancer. SNS-032 is an inhibitor of CDKs 2, 7 and 9, and SNS-314 is an inhibitor of Aurora A, B and C kinases. The therapeutic benefit of inhibiting CDKs, Aurora kinases and/or Raf kinases in the treatment of human cancer has not been established definitively in the clinic. There are also other CDKs and Aurora kinase inhibitors in early clinical development, but they have yet to show therapeutic benefit or they target other kinases in addition to CDKs and Aurora kinases and their activity may be associated with inhibition of those other kinases. In addition, there are conflicting scientific reports regarding the reliance or necessity of CDK2 in the cell cycle. If CDK, Aurora kinase or Raf kinase inhibition is not an effective treatment of human cancer, SNS-032, SNS-314 and any other drug candidates from these kinase programs may have little or no commercial value. 27 We rely on third parties to manufacture our product candidates, including SNS-595, SNS-032 and SNS-314, and depend on a single supplier for the active pharmaceutical ingredients for SNS-595 and SNS-032. There are a limited number of manufacturers that are capable of manufacturing the active ingredient of SNS-595. We do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities and lack the capability to manufacture any of our product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. As a result, we rely on third parties to manufacture both the API and drug products for SNS-595, SNS-032 and SNS-314. The APIs are classified as toxic substances, limiting the available manufacturers. We believe that there are at least five contract manufacturers in North America with suitable capabilities for API manufacture, and at least four that can manufacture our drug products. We currently have established relationships with only one manufacturer for API for SNS-595 and two manufacturers for the finished drug product. If our third-party manufacturer is unable or unwilling to produce API for SNS-595, we will need to establish a contract with another supplier. However, establishing a relationship with an alternative supplier would likely delay our ability to produce SNS-595 API for six to nine months, during which time we will rely on current inventory to supply our drug product manufacturing activities. We expect to continue to depend on third-party contract manufacturers for all our API and drug products in the foreseeable future. Our product candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing. A contract manufacturer is subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMP, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. Our contract manufacturer's failure to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards in compliance with cGMP regulations could result in manufacturing errors resulting in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or interruptions of production or failures in product testing or delivery, delay or prevention of filing or approval of marketing applications for our products, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business. To date, our product candidates have been manufactured in small quantities for preclinical studies and clinical trials. Prior to one of our product candidates being approved for commercial sale, we will need to manufacture that product in larger quantities. Significant scale-up of manufacturing will be accompanied by significant validation studies, which will be reviewed by the FDA prior to approval. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch may be delayed or there may be a shortage in commercial supply. Any performance failure on the part of a contract manufacturer could delay clinical development or regulatory approval of our product candidates or commercialization of our future products, depriving us of potential product revenue and resulting in additional losses. For example, because we rely on a single supplier for the API for SNS-595 and SNS-032, the failure of such supplier to have sufficient quantities of the API or to supply API on a timely basis or at all would negatively affect us. In addition, our dependence on a third party for manufacturing may adversely affect our future profit margins. Our ability to replace an existing manufacturer may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer before it can begin manufacturing our product candidates for commercial sale. Such approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. It may be difficult or impossible for us to identify and engage a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all. We expect to expand our clinical development and marketing capabilities, and any difficulties hiring or retaining key personnel or managing this growth could disrupt our operations. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and technical staff. We expect to expand our clinical development and marketing capabilities by increasing expenditures in these areas, hiring additional employees and expanding the scope of our current operations. Future 28 growth will require us to continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to retain, recruit and train additional qualified personnel, which may impose a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. The competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense. We are highly dependent on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly-qualified management, clinical and scientific personnel. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to retain key personnel or manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to implement our business plan. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, litigation will be costly and time consuming and could prevent us from developing or commercializing our future products. Our commercial success depends on not infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties and not breaching any collaboration or other agreements we have entered into with regard to our technologies and product candidates. Numerous third-party U.S.- and foreign-issued patents and pending patent applications exist in the area of kinases, including CDKs and Aurora and Raf kinases. Because patent applications can take several years to issue, there may be pending applications that may result in issued patents that cover our technologies or product candidates. For example, some pending patent applications contain broad claims that could represent freedom to operate limitations for some of our kinase programs should they be issued unchanged. In addition, because pending patent applications are not required to be published generally until at least 18 months after they are filed (or at all before issuance in the case of U.S. patent applications filed before November 29, 2000) there may be claims contained therein that we are not even aware of. If a third party asserts that we are using technology or compounds claimed in issued and unexpired patents owned or controlled by the third party, we may need to obtain a license, enter into litigation to challenge the validity of the patents or incur the risk of litigation in the event that a third party asserts that we infringe its patents. If a third party asserts that we infringe its patents or other proprietary rights, we could face a number of issues that could seriously harm our competitive position, including: •infringement and other intellectual property claims, which would be costly and time consuming to litigate, whether or not the claims have merit, and which could delay the regulatory approval process and divert management's attention from our business; •substantial damages for past infringement, which we may have to pay if a court determines that our product candidates or technologies infringe a third party patent or other proprietary rights; •a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing our product candidates or technologies unless a third party licenses relevant patent or other proprietary rights to us, which it is not required to do; and •if a license is available from a third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents or other proprietary rights. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than our future products, our commercial opportunities will be negatively impacted. The life sciences industry is highly competitive, and we face significant competition from many pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are researching and marketing products designed to address cancer and other serious diseases. We are developing small molecule therapeutics that will compete with other drugs and therapies that currently exist or are being developed. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and drug development resources than we do. Large pharmaceutical companies in particular have extensive experience in clinical testing and in obtaining regulatory approvals for drugs. These companies also have significantly greater research capabilities than we do. In addition, many universities and private 29 and public research institutes are active in cancer, Alzheimer's and inflammation research, some of which are in direct competition with us. Our product candidates will compete with a number of cancer therapeutics that are currently marketed or in development that also target proliferating cells but at different points of the cell cycle or with a different mechanism of action. These drugs include irinotecan, doxorubicin, taxanes and other cytotoxics and targeted therapies. To compete effectively with these agents, our product candidates will need to demonstrate advantages that lead to improved clinical efficacy as either a single agent or in combination settings. We believe that our ability to successfully compete will depend on, among other things: •our ability to develop novel compounds with attractive pharmaceutical properties and to secure, protect and maintain intellectual property rights based on our innovations; •the efficacy, safety and reliability of our product candidates; •the speed at which we develop our product candidates; •our ability to design and successfully execute appropriate clinical trials; •our ability to maintain a good relationship with regulatory authorities; •our ability to obtain, and the timing and scope of, regulatory approvals; •our ability to manufacture and sell commercial quantities of future products to the market; and •acceptance of future products by physicians and other healthcare providers. Some of the current key competitors to SNS-595 in AML include Genzyme Corporation's clofarabine, MGI Pharma's decitabine and ViON Corporation's cloretazine, all of which could change the treatment paradigm of acute leukemia. Each of these compounds is further along in clinical development than is SNS-595. Liposomal doxorubicin and topotecan are current standards of care in platinum-resistant ovarian cancer patients, and one of several of our competitors for this indication, Novartis AG, has initiated a head-to-head Phase 3 clinical trial in platinum refractory patients comparing its compound patupilone against liposomal doxorubicin. Further, with respect to SNS-032, we believe that several companies, including Aventis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., AstraZeneca International, Cyclacel Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Pfizer Inc., F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd., Schering AG and others, are conducting clinical trials with CDK inhibitors and others are developing other compounds that may compete with SNS-032. With respect to SNS-314, Merck and Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated are co-developing an Aurora kinase inhibitor and Cyclacel Pharmaceuticals, Inc., AstraZeneca International, Astex Therapeutics Limited, Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Rigel Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in conjunction with Merck Serono International S.A., and others are also developing Aurora kinase inhibitors. Several other companies have Aurora kinase programs for which they are close to filing an IND. Other molecules that may compete with SNS-314 may include other naturally occurring cell-cycle inhibitor drugs. If our competitors market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than our future products, if any, or that reach the market sooner than our future products, if any, we may not achieve commercial success. In addition, the biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Because our research approach integrates many technologies, it may be difficult for us to stay abreast of the rapid changes in each technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we may be unable to compete effectively. Technological advances or products developed by our competitors may render our technologies or product candidates obsolete. 30 Our proprietary fragment-based drug discovery approaches are experimental and may not discover any therapeutic compounds of commercial value. The initial fragment-based proprietary drug discovery approach we developed is called "Tethering." Tethering is a process whereby a target protein known to be involved in a disease process is engineered to facilitate the binding of small drug fragments. Once a small fragment is identified, the fragment is built out using the target protein's surface as a template to make a new full-size therapeutic compound. We have developed further enhancements to our fragment-based drug discovery platform that are currently being utilized to discover new targeted agents. Our drug discovery approaches are unproven and may not identify any therapeutic compounds of commercial value. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials for SNS-595, SNS-032, and SNS-314. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for SNS-595, SNS-032, SNS-314 or any other product candidate. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to conduct the planned and existing clinical trials in the United States, Canada and Europe of our product candidates. If the third parties conducting our clinical trials do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines or need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical trial protocols or for any other reason, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the product candidate being tested in such trials. Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our technologies and product candidates. Our commercial success will depend on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection for our technologies and product candidates in the United States and other countries. As of December 31, 2007, we owned, co-owned or had rights to approximately 220 issued U.S. and foreign patents and approximately 345 pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and future products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We apply for patents covering both our technologies and product candidates, as we deem appropriate. However, we may fail to apply for patents on important technologies or product candidates in a timely fashion, or at all. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products and technologies. In addition, we generally do not exclusively control the patent prosecution of subject matter that we license to and from others. Accordingly, we are unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we would over our own. Moreover, the patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. As a result, the validity and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, we do not know whether: •we, our licensors or our collaboration partners were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued patents and pending patent applications; •we, our licensors or our collaboration partners were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; •others will independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; •any of our or our licensors' pending patent applications will result in issued patents; 31 •any of our, our licensors' or our collaboration partners' patents will be valid or enforceable; •any patents issued to us, our licensors or our collaboration partners will provide us with any competitive advantages, or will be challenged by third parties; •we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or •the patents of others will have an adverse effect on our business. We also rely on trade secrets to protect some of our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to maintain. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our or our collaboration partners' employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors, or those of our licensors, may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors. Enforcement of claims that a third party has illegally obtained and is using trade secrets is expensive, time consuming and uncertain. In addition, foreign courts are sometimes less willing than U.S. courts to protect trade secrets. If our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how, we would not be able to assert our trade secrets against them and our business could be harmed. The composition of matter patents covering SNS-595 are due to expire in 2015. Even if SNS-595 is approved by the FDA, we may not be able to recover our development costs prior to the expiration of these patents. The composition of our lead product candidate, SNS-595, is covered by U.S. patent 5,817,669 and its counterpart patents and patent applications in 43 foreign jurisdictions. U.S. patent 5,817,669 is due to expire in October 2015, and most of its foreign counterparts are due to expire in June 2015. We do not know whether patent term extensions and data exclusivity periods will be available in the future. SNS-595 must undergo extensive clinical trials before it can be approved by the FDA. We do not know when, if ever, SNS-595 will be approved by the FDA. Even if SNS-595 is approved by the FDA in the future, we may not have sufficient time to commercialize SNS-595 to enable us to recover our development costs prior to the expiration of the U.S. and foreign patents covering SNS-595. Our obligation to pay royalties to Dainippon, the company from which we licensed SNS-595, may extend beyond the patent expiration, which will further erode the profitability of this product. The composition of matter patents covering SNS-032 are due to expire in 2018 in the United States. Even if SNS-032 is approved by the FDA, we may not be able to recover our development costs prior to the expiration of these patents. The composition of our product candidate SNS-032 is covered by U.S. patent 6,515,004 and its counterpart patents and patent applications in 33 foreign jurisdictions. U.S. patent 6,515,004 is due to expire in October 2018, and most of its foreign counterparts are due to expire in May 2021 (although some expire as early as November 2018). We do not know whether patent term extensions and data exclusivity periods will be available in the future. SNS-032 must undergo extensive clinical trials before it can be approved by the FDA. We do not know when, if ever, SNS-032 will be approved by the FDA. Even if SNS-032 is approved by the FDA in the future, we may not have sufficient time to commercialize SNS-032 to enable us to recover our development costs prior to the expiration of the U.S. and foreign patents covering SNS-032. Our obligation to pay royalties to BMS, the company from which we licensed SNS-032, may extend beyond the patent expiration, which will further erode the profitability of this product. The composition of matter patents covering SNS-314 are due to expire in 2025 in the United States. Even if SNS-314 is approved by the FDA, we may not be able to recover our development costs prior to the expiration of these patents. The composition of our product candidate SNS-314 is covered by a pending U.S. patent application and its counterpart patents and patent applications in 14 foreign jurisdictions. If a patent issues based on the pending U.S. application, it would be due to expire on or about July 2025, along 32 with most of its foreign counterparts. We do not know whether patent term extensions and data exclusivity periods will be available in the future. SNS-314 must undergo extensive clinical trials before it can be approved by the FDA. We do not know when, if ever, SNS-314 will be approved by the FDA. Even if SNS-314 is approved by the FDA in the future, we may not have sufficient time to commercialize SNS-314 to enable us to recover our development costs prior to the expiration of any U.S. and foreign patents covering SNS-314. Our workforce reduction announced in August 2007 and any future workforce and expense reductions may have an adverse impact on our internal programs, our ability to hire and retain key personnel and may be distracting to management. In August 2007, we announced a workforce reduction of 35 employees in order to reduce expenses. In light of our continued need for funding and expense control, we may be required to implement further workforce and expense reductions in the future. Further workforce and expense reductions could result in reduced progress on our internal programs. In addition, employees, whether or not directly affected by a reduction, may seek future employment with our business partners or competitors. Although our employees are required to sign a confidentiality agreement at the time of hire, the confidential nature of certain proprietary information may not be maintained in the course of any such future employment. Further, we believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. We may have difficulty retaining and attracting such personnel as a result of a perceived risk of future workforce and expense reductions. In addition, the implementation of expense reduction programs may result in the diversion of efforts of our executive management team and other key employees, which could adversely affect our business. The commercial success of products resulting from our collaborations, if any, depends in whole or in part on the development and marketing efforts of our collaboration partners, over which we have limited control. If our collaborations are unsuccessful, our potential to generate future revenue from the sale of these products would be significantly reduced. Our dependence on collaboration arrangements subjects our company to a number of risks. The commercial success of products resulting from our collaborations, if any, depends, in whole or in part on our collaboration partners' ability to establish the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, obtain and maintain regulatory approvals and achieve market acceptance of a product once commercialized. Our collaboration partners may elect to delay or terminate development of one or more product candidates, independently develop products that compete with ours, or fail to commit sufficient resources to the marketing and distribution of products developed through their collaborations with us. In the event that one or more of our collaboration partners fails to diligently develop or commercialize a product candidate covered by one of our collaboration agreements, we may have the right to terminate our partner's rights to such product candidate but we will not receive any future revenue from that product candidate unless we are able to find another partner or commercialize the product candidate on our own, which is likely to result in significant additional expense. Business combinations, significant changes in business strategy, litigation and/or financial difficulties may also adversely affect the willingness or ability of one or more of our collaboration partners to complete their obligations under our collaboration agreements. If our collaboration partners fail to perform in the manner we expect, our potential to generate future revenue from the sale of products resulting from our collaborations, would be significantly reduced. If conflicts of interest arise between our collaboration partners and us, any of them may act in their self interest, which may be adverse to our interests. If a conflict of interest arises between us and one or more of our collaboration partners, they may act in their own self interest or otherwise in a way that is not in the interest of our company or our stockholders. Some of our collaboration partners are conducting, and future collaboration partners, if any, may conduct, multiple product development efforts within the disease area that is the subject of 33 collaboration with our company. In some of our collaborations, we have agreed not to conduct, independently or with any third party, any research that is competitive with the research conducted under our collaborations. Our collaboration partners, however, may develop, either alone or with others, products in related fields that are competitive with the product candidates that are the subject of these collaborations. Competing products, either developed by our collaboration partners or to which our collaboration partners have rights, may result in their withdrawal of support for our product candidates. If one or more of our collaboration partners were to breach or terminate their collaboration agreements with us or otherwise fail to perform their obligations thereunder in a timely manner, the preclinical or clinical development or commercialization of the affected product candidates or research programs could be delayed or terminated. We do not know whether our current or any future collaboration partners will pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative product candidates, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors, as a means for developing treatments for the diseases targeted by collaboration agreements with our company. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of our employees' former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize our product candidates, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. We currently have limited marketing staff and no sales or distribution organization. If we are unable to develop a sales and marketing and distribution capability on our own or through collaborations with marketing partners, we will not be successful in commercializing our future products. We currently have no sales or distribution capabilities and limited marketing staff. We intend to establish our own sales and marketing organization with technical expertise and supporting distribution capabilities to commercialize at least some of our future products, if any, which will be expensive and time consuming. Any failure or delay in the development of our internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities would adversely impact the commercialization of these products. With respect to other future products, we plan to collaborate with third parties that have direct sales forces and established distribution systems. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenue is likely to be lower than if we directly marketed or sold our products. In addition, any revenue we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and are only partially within our control. If we are unable to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms or at all, we may not be able to successfully commercialize these future products. If we are not successful in commercializing our future products, either on our own or through collaborations with one or more third parties, our future product revenue will suffer and we may incur significant additional losses. We depend on various scientific consultants and advisors for the success and continuation of our research and development efforts. We work extensively with various scientific consultants and advisors. The potential success of our drug discovery and development programs depends, in part, on continued collaborations with certain of these consultants and advisors. We rely on certain of these consultants and advisors for expertise in our research, regulatory and clinical efforts. Our scientific consultants and advisors are not our employees 34 and may have commitments and obligations to other entities that may limit their availability to us. We do not know if we will be able to maintain such relationships or that such scientific consultants and advisors will not enter into other arrangements with competitors, any of which could have a detrimental impact on our research and development objectives and our business. Our facilities are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other catastrophic disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to cease or curtail operations. Our facilities are located in the San Francisco Bay Area near known earthquake fault zones and are vulnerable to significant damage from earthquakes. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including fires, floods, power loss, communications failures and similar events. We are in the process of designing and implementing a disaster relief plan. However, even if such a plan were in place, if any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities may be seriously or completely impaired and our research could be lost or destroyed. In addition, the unique nature of our research activities and of much of our equipment could make it difficult for us to recover from a disaster. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. New or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. Complying with evolving interpretations of new or changed legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and procedures, and may divert management time and attention from potential revenue-generating activities to compliance matters. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may also be harmed. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. Global credit and financial market conditions negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments and our ability to meet our financing objectives. Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. Our marketable securities consist primarily of investments in readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. While as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any downgrades, material losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or marketable securities since December 31, 2007, no assurance can be given that further deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or marketable securities or our ability to meet our current liquidity needs. Risks Related to Our Industry The regulatory approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and may prevent us or our collaboration partners from obtaining approvals for the commercialization of some or all of our product candidates. The research, testing, manufacturing, selling and marketing of product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and other 35 countries, which regulations differ from country to country. Neither we nor our collaboration partners are permitted to market our product candidates in the United States until we receive approval of an NDA from the FDA or in any other country without the equivalent marketing approval from such country. Neither we nor our collaboration partners have received marketing approval for any of our product candidates. In addition, failure to comply with FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizure or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production, and refusal to approve pending NDAs, supplements to approved NDAs or their foreign equivalents. Regulatory approval of an NDA or NDA supplement or a foreign equivalent is not guaranteed, and the approval process is expensive and may take several years. Furthermore, the development process for oncology products may take longer than in other therapeutic areas. Regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the drug approval process. Despite the time and expense exerted, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon clinical trials or to repeat or perform additional preclinical studies and clinical trials. The number of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for marketing approval varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition that the drug candidate is designed to address, and the regulations applicable to any particular drug candidate. The FDA or a foreign regulatory authority can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including: •the drug candidate may not be deemed safe or effective; •regulatory officials may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical trials sufficient; •the FDA or foreign regulatory authority might not approve our or our third-party manufacturer's processes or facilities; or •the FDA or foreign regulatory authority may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations. We may be subject to costly claims related to our clinical trials and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. Because we conduct clinical trials in humans, we face the risk that the use of our product candidates will result in adverse side effects. We cannot predict the possible harms or side effects that may result from our clinical trials. Although we have clinical trial liability insurance for up to $10.0 million aggregate, our insurance may be insufficient to cover any such events. We do not know whether we will be able to continue to obtain clinical trial coverage on acceptable terms, or at all. We may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limit of, our insurance coverage. There is also a risk that third parties that we have agreed to indemnify could incur liability. Any litigation arising from our clinical trials, even if we were ultimately successful, would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and may create adverse publicity. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market our product candidates, the market may not be receptive to our products. Even if our product candidates obtain regulatory approval, resulting products, if any, may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and/or the medical community. We believe that the degree of market acceptance will depend on a number of factors, including: •timing of market introduction of competitive products; •efficacy of our product; •prevalence and severity of any side effects; 36 •potential advantages or disadvantages over alternative treatments; •strength of marketing and distribution support; •price of our future products, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments; and •availability of reimbursement from health maintenance organizations and other third-party payors. For example, the potential toxicity of single and repeated doses of SNS-595 has been explored in a number of animal studies that suggest the mechanism-based dose-limiting toxicities in humans receiving SNS-595 may be similar to some of those observed in approved cytotoxic agents, including reversible toxicity to bone marrow cells, the gastrointestinal system and other systems with rapidly dividing cells. In our Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials of SNS-595, we have witnessed the following side effects, irrespective of causality, ranging from mild to more severe: lowered white blood cell count that may lead to a serious or possibly life-threatening infection, hair loss, mouth sores, fatigue, nausea with or without vomiting, lowered platelet count, which may lead to an increase in bruising or bleeding, lowered red blood cell count (anemia), weakness, tiredness, shortness of breath, diarrhea and intestinal blockage. Our ongoing Phase 1 clinical trials of SNS-032 and SNS-314 have a limited number of patients enrolled thus far. We can not yet assess the extent and type of side effects and/or unacceptable toxicities that these product candidates might exhibit in the patient populations and dosing regimens being evaluated. If our future products fail to achieve market acceptance, due to unacceptable side effects or any other reasons, we may not be able to generate significant revenue or to achieve or sustain profitability. Even if we receive regulatory approval for a product candidate, we will be subject to ongoing FDA and other regulatory obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense and limit our ability to commercialize our future products. Any regulatory approvals that we or our collaboration partners receive for our product candidates may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing studies. In addition, even if approved, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for any product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the product, and could include withdrawal of the product from the market. Regulatory policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our future products and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. The coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved drugs is uncertain, and failure to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement could limit our ability to market any future products we may develop and decrease our ability to generate revenue. There is significant uncertainty related to the third party coverage and reimbursement of newly approved drugs both nationally and internationally. The commercial success of our future products in both domestic and international markets depends on whether third-party coverage and reimbursement is available for the ordering of our future products by the medical profession for use by their patients. Medicare, Medicaid, health maintenance organizations and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to manage healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drugs and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our future products. These payors may not view our future products as cost-effective, and reimbursement may not be available to 37 consumers or may not be sufficient to allow our future products to be marketed on a competitive basis. Likewise, legislative or regulatory efforts to control or reduce healthcare costs or reform government healthcare programs could result in lower prices or rejection of our future products. Changes in coverage and reimbursement policies or healthcare cost containment initiatives that limit or restrict reimbursement for our future products may reduce any future product revenue. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing our products abroad. We intend to market our future products in international markets. In order to market our future products in Canada, the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals. We have had limited interactions with foreign regulatory authorities, and the approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional testing at significant cost. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. Foreign governments often impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability. We intend to seek approval to market our future products in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. If we obtain approval in one or more foreign jurisdictions, we will be subject to rules and regulations in those jurisdictions relating to our product. In some foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, prescription drug pricing is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a drug candidate. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our future product to other available therapies. If reimbursement of our future products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. We may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to significant liabilities. We use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business and are subject to a variety of federal, state, regional and local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. Although we believe our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials and waste products comply with these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of hazardous materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could significantly exceed our insurance coverage, which is limited to $0.1 million for pollution cleanup, and we are uninsured for third-party contamination injury. 38 Risks Related to Our Common Stock If we sell shares of our common stock in future financings, stockholders may experience immediate dilution. We may from time to time issue additional shares of common stock at a discount from the current trading price of our common stock. As a result, our stockholders would experience immediate dilution upon the purchase of any shares of our common stock sold at such discount. In addition, as opportunities present themselves in the future, we may enter into financing or similar arrangements, including the issuance of debt securities, preferred stock or common stock. If we issue additional common or preferred stock or securities convertible into common stock, our stockholders could experience dilution. The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. We sold shares of common stock in our IPO in September 2005 at a price of $7.00 per share, and through March 3, 2008, our stock has subsequently traded as low as $1.01 per share. An active and liquid trading market for our common stock may not develop or be sustained. Factors that could cause volatility in the market price of our common stock include, but are not limited to: •failure to raise additional capital to carry through with our clinical development plans; •results from, and any delays in or discontinuance of, our clinical trial programs, including our ongoing and planned clinical trials for SNS-595, SNS-032 and SNS-314; •announcements of FDA non-approval of our product candidates, including SNS-595, SNS-032 or SNS-314, delays in filing regulatory documents with the FDA or other regulatory agencies, or delays in the review process by the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies; •announcements relating to our ongoing collaborations with Biogen Idec, Johnson & Johnson PRD and Merck; •failure or discontinuation of any of our research programs; •delays in the commercialization of our future products; •market conditions in the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; •issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations; •actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; •developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; •introduction of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; •issues in manufacturing our product candidates or future products, if any; •market acceptance of our future products, if any; •deviations in our operating results from the estimates of analysts; •third-party healthcare reimbursement policies; •FDA or other U.S. or foreign regulatory actions affecting us or our industry; •litigation or public concern about the safety of our product candidates or future products, if any; •sales of our common stock by our officers, directors or significant stockholders; and •additions or departures of key personnel. 39 In addition, the stock markets in general, and the markets for pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of the issuer. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price or liquidity of our common stock. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the issuer. If any of our stockholders were to bring such a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and the attention of our management would be diverted from the operation of our business. Provisions of our charter documents or Delaware law could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult to change management. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempt by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include: •a classified Board of Directors so that not all directors are elected at one time; •a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent; •limitations on our stockholders' ability to call special meetings of stockholders; •an advance notice requirement for stockholder proposals and nominations; and •the authority of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with such terms as our Board of Directors may determine. In addition, Delaware law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person who, together with its affiliates, owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Provisions in our charter documents and provisions of Delaware law could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. The ownership of our common stock is highly concentrated, and your interests may conflict with the interests of our existing stockholders. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates, together with our current significant stockholders, beneficially owned approximately 54.8 percent of our outstanding common stock as of February 29, 2008. Accordingly, these stockholders, acting as a group, have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction. These stockholders could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors' perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. 40 We have never paid dividends on our capital stock and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders' sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. We are at risk of securities class action litigation. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years. If we faced such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could harm our business. Changes in financial accounting standards related to share-based payments are expected to continue to have an effect on our reported results. On January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. FAS 123 (revised 2004) (FAS 123R), "Share-Based Payment," which requires that we record compensation expense in the statement of operations for share-based payments, such as employee stock options, using the fair value method. The adoption of this standard is expected to continue to have an effect on our reported results of operations, although it will not affect our cash flows, and could adversely impact our ability to provide accurate guidance on our future reported financial results due to the variability of the factors used to estimate the values of share-based payments. If factors change and we employ different assumptions or different valuation methods in the application of FAS 123R in future periods, the compensation expense that we record under FAS 123R may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period, which could negatively affect our stock price and our stock price volatility. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 