ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report in weighing a decision to purchase our common stock. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Please see “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to raise additional capital in the near term, we may not be able to continue to operate as a going concern. We will need to raise substantial additional capital to continue the development and commercialization of voreloxin. 15 We will need to raise substantial additional capital in the near term to: · fund clinical trials and seek regulatory approvals; · continue and expand our development activities; · hire additional development personnel; · maintain, defend and expand the scope of our intellectual property portfolio; · implement additional internal systems and infrastructure; and · build or access manufacturing and commercialization capabilities. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to: · the rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and other development activities; · the economic and other terms and timing of any licensing or other partnering arrangement into which we may enter; · the costs associated with building or accessing manufacturing and commercialization capabilities; · the costs of acquiring or investing in businesses, product candidates and technologies, if any; · the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; · the costs and timing of seeking and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; and · the effect of competing technological and market developments. On March 31, 2009, we entered into a securities purchase agreement with accredited investors, including certain members of management, providing for a private placement of our securities of up to $43.5 million, or the Private Placement. The Private Placement contemplates the sale of up to $15.0 million of units consisting of Series A Preferred Stock and warrants to purchase common stock in two closings. $10.0 million of units would be sold in the initial closing, which is expected to occur in the near term, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. Subject to the approval of our stockholders, an additional $5.0 million of units may be sold in the second closing, which closing may occur at our election or at the election of the investors in the Private Placement. We may elect to hold the second closing if the achievement of a specified milestone with respect to voreloxin has occurred and our common stock is trading above a specified floor price. If we have not delivered notice to the investors in the Private Placement of our election to complete the second closing, or if the conditions for the second closing have not been met, the investors may elect to purchase the units in the second closing by delivering a notice to us of their election to purchase the units. Notice of an election to complete the second closing, either by us or the investors in the Private Placement, must be delivered on or before the earliest to occur of December 31, 2009, the common equity closing described below or the occurrence of a qualifying alternative common stock financing. If the second closing occurs, it will be subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. Subject to the approval of our stockholders, the remaining tranche of $28.5 million of common stock may be sold in the common equity closing. The common equity closing may be completed at our election prior to the earlier of December 31, 2010 and a qualifying alternative common stock financing, or upon the election of the holders of a majority of the Series A Preferred Stock issued in the Private Placement prior to a date determined with reference to our cash balance dropping below $4.0 million at certain future dates. If we elect to hold the common equity closing, it will be subject to the approval of the purchasers holding a majority of the Series A Preferred Stock issued in the Private Placement and subject to a condition that we sell at least $28.5 million of common stock in the common equity closing. Assuming the initial closing for gross proceeds of $10.0 million described above, we anticipate that the net proceeds from the initial closing, together with our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, will be sufficient to enable us to fund our operations at least through the end of 2009. In the event the initial closing in the Private Placement for $10.0 million of units does not occur, our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are sufficient to fund our operations only through April 2009. While we expect to complete the initial closing of the Private Placement in the near term, it is possible that the conditions to the initial closing will not be met, in which event we will not receive the $10.0 million of gross proceeds that we expect to receive at that closing. The conditions to the second closing for $5.0 million of units are substantial, including conditions related to approval by our stockholders, the development of voreloxin and our stock price, and it is possible that the conditions to this second closing will not be met, in which event we would not receive the $5.0 million of gross proceeds that are contemplated for that closing. The $28.5 million common equity closing is entirely in the discretion of the investors in the Private Placement, and it is possible that they will elect not to complete that closing for reasons related to our business or other factors. The closing of the Private Placement will result in substantial dilution to our stockholders. Following the initial closing, the holders of our common stock prior thereto will hold approximately 54.3% of our outstanding common stock (assuming conversion of the convertible preferred at the current conversion price), and will hold approximately 37.2% if the warrants issued at the initial closing are exercised in full. Following the second closing for $5.0 million of units, if completed, the holders of our common stock prior to the Private Placement will hold approximately 44.2% of our outstanding common stock (assuming conversion of the convertible preferred at the current conversion price), and will hold approximately 28.3% if the warrants issued at the initial and second closings are exercised in full. Following the common equity closing, if completed, the holders of our common stock prior to the Private Placement would hold approximately 19% of our outstanding common stock (assuming conversion of the convertible preferred at the current conversion price), and would hold approximately 15% if the warrants issued at the initial and second closings are exercised in full. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue to finance our cash requirements, which we may never do, we expect to finance future cash needs primarily through equity issuances (including the possible closings of the sale of units and common stock in the Private Placement described above and subject to the satisfaction of the conditions described above), debt arrangements and a possible partnership or license of development and/or commercialization rights to voreloxin. We do not know whether additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We are currently continuing to conduct our ongoing clinical trials of voreloxin in acute myeloid leukemia, or AML, and ovarian cancer. If we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our clinical trials or scale back our development program or conduct additional workforce or other expense reductions. For example, in June 2008, we announced that we reduced our workforce by approximately sixty percent and implemented a revised operating plan to focus our efforts on voreloxin, wind down our internal discovery research activities to streamline our operations and extend our financial resources. In addition, we may have to partner voreloxin at an earlier stage of development than we might otherwise choose to do, which would lower the economic value of that program to us. 16 Our failure to raise capital when needed and on acceptable terms would require us to reduce our operating expenses, delay or reduce the scope of our voreloxin development program and limit our ability to continue our operations. Any one of the foregoing would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our independent registered public accountants have indicated that our recurring operating losses raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 were prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. The going concern basis of presentation assumes that we will continue in operation for the foreseeable future and will be able to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. However, our independent registered public accountants have indicated that our recurring operating losses raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. We may be forced to reduce our operating expenses and raise additional funds to meet our working capital needs. However, we cannot guarantee that will be able to obtain sufficient additional funds when needed or that such funds, if available, will be obtainable on terms satisfactory to us. In the event that these plans cannot be effectively realized, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue as a going concern. Conditions affecting the equity market may make it more difficult and costly to raise additional capital. Currently, there is turmoil in the U.S. economy in part due to tightening credit markets. Banks have tightened their lending standards, investors are balking at buying stock and corporate bonds and economic growth has slowed. Factors contributing to a slowing economy appear to be reduced credit availability, falling house prices and rising prices. If these factors continue to affect equity markets, our ability to raise capital may be adversely affected. We have incurred losses since inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We may not ever achieve or sustain profitability. We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history as a public company. We are not profitable and have incurred losses in each year since our inception in 1998. Our net loss for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $37.2 million, $38.8 million, and $31.2 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $316.2 million. We do not currently have any products that have been approved for marketing, and we continue to incur substantial development and general and administrative expenses related to our operations. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and we expect these losses to increase significantly, especially upon commencing pivotal and Phase 3 clinical trials for voreloxin, as we conduct development of, and seek regulatory approvals for, voreloxin, and as we commercialize any approved drugs. Our losses, among other things, have caused and will continue to cause our stockholders’ equity and working capital to decrease. Our business model had been based in part upon entering into strategic collaborations for discovery and/or the development of some of our product candidates. To date, we have derived substantially all of our revenue from research collaboration agreements. The research phase for all of our revenue-generating collaboration agreements is completed. We do not expect to enter into any new collaboration agreement that will result in research revenue for us. We also do not anticipate that we will generate revenue from the sale of products for the foreseeable future. In the absence of additional sources of capital which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, the development of voreloxin or future product candidates, if any, may be reduced in scope, delayed or terminated. If our product candidates or those of our collaborators fail in clinical trials or do not gain regulatory approval, or if our future products do not achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. There is a high risk the development of voreloxin could be halted or significantly delayed for various reasons; our clinical trials for voreloxin may not demonstrate safety or efficacy or lead to regulatory approval. Voreloxin is prone to the risks of failure inherent in the drug development process. We need to conduct significant additional preclinical studies and clinical trials before we can attempt to demonstrate that voreloxin is safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Failure can occur at any stage of the development process, and successful preclinical studies and early clinical trials do not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier trials. For example, we terminated two Phase 2 trials of voreloxin in small cell and non-small cell lung cancer. We recently ceased development of SNS-032 and terminated our related license agreement with BMS after completion of a Phase 1 trial as no responses demonstrating efficacy were observed in that trial. In addition, in our Phase 1 trial of SNS-314, a maximum tolerated dose was not established and no responses were observed. As a result, we have suspended further development of SNS-314 while we seek a partner or licensee to support further development. If our clinical trials result in unacceptable toxicity or lack of efficacy, we may have to terminate them. If clinical trials are halted, or if they do not show that voreloxin is safe and effective in the indications for which we are seeking regulatory approval, our future growth will be limited and we may not have any other product candidates to develop. 17 We do not know whether our ongoing clinical trials or any other future clinical trials with voreloxin or any of our product candidates will be completed on schedule, or at all, or whether our ongoing or planned clinical trials will begin or progress on the time schedule we anticipate. The commencement of our planned clinical trials could be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: · delays or failures to raise additional funding; · limited number of, and competition for, suitable patients with particular types of cancer for enrollment in clinical trials; · delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; · delays or failures in obtaining sufficient clinical materials; · delays or failures in obtaining IRB approval to conduct a clinical trial at prospective sites; or · delays or failures in reaching acceptable clinical trial agreement terms or clinical trial protocols with prospective sites. The completion of our clinical trials could also be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: · delays or failures to raise additional funding; · slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment; · failure of patients to complete the clinical trial; · unforeseen safety issues; · lack of efficacy during clinical trials; · inability or unwillingness of patients or clinical investigators to follow our clinical trial protocols; and · inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment. Additionally, our clinical trials may be suspended or terminated at any time by the FDA, other regulatory authorities, ourselves or, in some cases, our collaboration partners. Any failure to complete or significant delay in completing, clinical trials for our product candidates could harm our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates. In March 2008, we informed the FDA of a stability observation in our voreloxin drug product. Specifically, visible particles were observed during stability studies of one of our voreloxin drug product lots. We have since identified a process impurity in the voreloxin active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, that, when formulated into the packaged vial of the voreloxin drug product, can result in the formation of particles over time. As a response to these findings, we implemented a revised manufacturing process to attempt to control the impurity and thereby prevent particle formation. One lot of voreloxin API manufactured using the revised manufacturing process has been formulated into a drug product lot that has completed nine months of stability testing without formation of particles. This drug product lot is currently being used in our clinical trials. It will take time to evaluate whether or not this revised manufacturing process for voreloxin API will be successful in stopping the formation of particles in this drug product lot over the longer term, and to evaluate whether or not such control of particle formation would also be reliably and consistently achieved in subsequent lots over the shorter or longer term. We provided an update on the results from our process optimization activities to the FDA in December 2008. If the change in manufacturing process does not adequately control the formation of visible particles, we will need to discuss other possibilities with the FDA, which could possibly include temporary clinical hold until the issue has been resolved to their satisfaction. The failure to enroll patients for clinical trials may cause delays in developing voreloxin. We may encounter delays if we are unable to enroll enough patients to complete clinical trials of voreloxin. Patient enrollment depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the trial. Moreover, when one product candidate is evaluated in multiple clinical trials simultaneously, patient enrollment in ongoing trials can be adversely effected by negative results from completed trials. Voreloxin is being tested in AML and ovarian cancer, which can be difficult patient populations to recruit. 18 The results of preclinical studies and clinical trials may not satisfy the requirements of the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Prior to receiving approval to commercialize voreloxin or future product candidates, if any, in the United States or abroad, we and our collaboration partners must demonstrate with substantial evidence from well-controlled clinical trials, to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities, that such product candidates are safe and effective for their intended uses. The results from preclinical studies and clinical trials can be interpreted in different ways. Even if we and our collaboration partners believe the preclinical or clinical data are promising, such data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. We rely on third parties to manufacture our voreloxin drug product and its active pharmaceutical ingredient, and depend on a single supplier for the active pharmaceutical ingredient. There are a limited number of manufacturers that are capable of manufacturing voreloxin. We do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities and lack the capability to manufacture voreloxin on a clinical or commercial scale. As a result, we rely on third parties to manufacture both the voreloxin API and the finished drug product. The API is classified as a toxic substance, limiting the available manufacturers. We believe that there are at least five contract manufacturers in North America with suitable capabilities for API manufacture, and at least four that can manufacture finished drug product. We currently have established relationships with only one manufacturer for API and two manufacturers for the finished drug product. If our third-party API manufacturer is unable or unwilling to produce voreloxin, we will need to establish a contract with another supplier. However, establishing a relationship with an alternative supplier would likely delay our ability to produce API for six to nine months, during which time we will rely on current inventory to supply our drug product manufacturing activities. We expect to continue to depend on third-party contract manufacturers for all our API and finished drug product needs in the foreseeable future. Voreloxin requires precise, high quality manufacturing. A contract manufacturer is subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. Our contract manufacturer’s failure to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards in compliance with cGMP regulations could result in manufacturing errors resulting in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or interruptions of production or failures in product testing or delivery, delay or prevention of filing or approval of marketing applications for voreloxin, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business. To date, voreloxin has been manufactured in small quantities for preclinical studies and clinical trials. Prior to being approved for commercial sale, we will need to manufacture finished drug product in larger quantities. Significant scale-up of manufacturing will be accompanied by significant validation studies, which will be reviewed by the FDA prior to approval. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for voreloxin, the regulatory approval or commercial launch may be delayed or there may be a shortage in commercial supply. Any performance failure on the part of a contract manufacturer could delay clinical development or regulatory approval of our product candidates or commercialization of our future products, depriving us of potential product revenue and resulting in additional losses. For example, because we rely on a single supplier for voreloxin API, the failure of such supplier to have sufficient quantities of the API or to supply API on a timely basis or at all would negatively affect us. In addition, our dependence on a third party for manufacturing may adversely affect our future profit margins. Our ability to replace an existing manufacturer may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer before it can be an approved commercial supplier. Such approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. It may be difficult or impossible for us to identify and engage a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all. We expect to expand our clinical development capabilities, and any difficulties hiring or retaining key personnel or managing this growth could disrupt our operations. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our development staff. We expect to expand our clinical development capabilities by increasing expenditures in these areas, hiring additional employees and expanding the scope of our current operations. Future growth will require us to continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems and continue to retain, recruit and train additional qualified personnel, which may impose a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. The competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense. We are highly dependent on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly-qualified management and specialized personnel required for clinical development. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to retain key personnel or manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to implement our business plan. 19 If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, litigation will be costly and time consuming and could prevent us from developing or commercializing voreloxin. Our commercial success depends on not infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties and not breaching any collaboration or other agreements we have entered into with regard to our technologies and product candidates. If a third party asserts that we are using technology or compounds claimed in issued and unexpired patents owned or controlled by the third party, we may need to obtain a license, enter into litigation to challenge the validity of the patents or incur the risk of litigation in the event that a third party asserts that we infringe its patents. If a third party asserts that we infringe its patents or other proprietary rights, we could face a number of challenges that could seriously harm our competitive position, including: · infringement and other intellectual property claims, which would be costly and time consuming to litigate, whether or not the claims have merit, and which could delay the regulatory approval process and divert management’s attention from our business; · substantial damages for past infringement, which we may have to pay if a court determines that voreloxin or any other product candidates in the future infringes a third party’s patent or other proprietary rights; · a court order prohibiting us from selling or licensing voreloxin or any future product candidates unless a third party licenses relevant patent or other proprietary rights to us, which it is not required to do; and · if a license is available from a third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents or other proprietary rights. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than voreloxin, our commercial opportunities will be negatively impacted. The life sciences industry is highly competitive, and we face significant competition from many pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are researching, developing and marketing products designed to address the treatment of cancer, including AML and ovarian cancer. Voreloxin is a small molecule therapeutic that will compete with other drugs and therapies that currently exist or are being developed. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and drug development resources than we do. Large pharmaceutical companies in particular have extensive experience in clinical testing and in obtaining regulatory approvals for, and marketing, drugs. We believe that our ability to successfully compete with voreloxin and any future product candidates, if any, will depend on, among other things: · our ability to develop novel compounds with attractive pharmaceutical properties and to secure, protect and maintain intellectual property rights based on our innovations; · the efficacy, safety and reliability of our product candidates; · the speed at which we develop our product candidates; · our ability to design and successfully execute appropriate clinical trials; · our ability to maintain a good relationship with regulatory authorities; · our ability to obtain, and the timing and scope of, regulatory approvals; · our ability to manufacture and sell commercial quantities of future products to the market; and · acceptance of future products by physicians and other healthcare providers. 20 Some of the current key competitors to voreloxin in AML include Genzyme Corporation’s clofarabine, Eisai Corporation’s decitabine, Celgene Corporation’s azacitidine and Vion Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s laromustine, all of which could change the treatment paradigm of acute leukemia. Each of these compounds is further along in clinical development than is voreloxin. Liposomal doxorubicin and topotecan are current standards of care in platinum-resistant ovarian cancer patients, and we are aware that several of our competitors have initiated Phase 3 clinical trials for this indication. We expect competition for voreloxin to increase as additional products are developed and approved to treat AML and ovarian cancer in various patient populations. If our competitors market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than voreloxin or our other future products, if any, or that reach the market sooner we may not achieve commercial success or substantial market penetration. In addition, the biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid change. Products developed by our competitors may render voreloxin or any future product candidates obsolete. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our voreloxin drug product. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to conduct our planned and existing clinical trials for voreloxin. If the third parties conducting our clinical trials do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines or need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical trial protocols or for any other reason, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the product candidate being tested in such trials. Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect voreloxin or future product candidates, if any. Our commercial success will depend on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection for voreloxin and any future product candidates in the United States and other countries. As of December 31, 2008, we owned, co-owned or had rights to approximately 233 issued U.S. and foreign patents and approximately 370 pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and future products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We apply for patents covering both our technologies and product candidates, as we deem appropriate. However, we may fail to apply for patents on important technologies or product candidates in a timely fashion, or at all. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products and technologies. In addition, we generally do not exclusively control the patent prosecution of subject matter that we license to or from others. Accordingly, in such cases we are unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we would over our own. Moreover, the patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. As a result, the validity and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, we do not know whether: · we, our licensors or our collaboration partners were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued patents and pending patent applications; · we, our licensors or our collaboration partners were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; · others will independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; · any of our or our licensors’ pending patent applications will result in issued patents; · any of our, our licensors’ or our collaboration partners’ patents will be valid or enforceable; · any patents issued to us, our licensors or our collaboration partners will provide us with any competitive advantages, or will be challenged by third parties; 21 · we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or · the patents of others will have an adverse effect on our business. We also rely on trade secrets to protect some of our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to maintain. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our or our collaboration partners’ employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors, or those of our licensors, may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors. Enforcement of claims that a third party has illegally obtained and is using trade secrets is expensive, time consuming and uncertain. In addition, foreign courts are sometimes less willing than U.S. courts to protect trade secrets. If our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how, we would not be able to assert our trade secrets against them and our business could be harmed. The composition of matter patents covering voreloxin are due to expire in 2015. Even if voreloxin is approved by the FDA, we may not be able to recover our development costs prior to the expiration of these patents. The voreloxin API composition of matter is covered by U.S. patent 5,817,669 and its counterpart patents and patent applications in 43 foreign jurisdictions. U.S. patent 5,817,669 is due to expire in October 2015, and most of its foreign counterparts are due to expire in June 2015. We do not know whether patent term extensions and data exclusivity periods will be available in the future. Voreloxin must undergo extensive clinical trials before it can be approved by the FDA. We do not know when, if ever, voreloxin will be approved by the FDA. Even if voreloxin is approved by the FDA in the future, we may not have sufficient time to commercialize our voreloxin product to enable us to recover our development costs prior to the expiration of the U.S. and foreign patents covering voreloxin. Our obligation to pay royalties to Dainippon, the company from which we licensed voreloxin, may extend beyond the patent expiration, which would further erode the profitability of this product. Our workforce reductions in August 2007, June 2008, March 2009 and any future workforce and expense reductions may have an adverse impact on our internal programs, our ability to hire and retain key personnel and may be distracting to management. In August 2007, we conducted a workforce reduction of approximately twenty five percent in order to reduce expenses. In June 2008, we conducted a second workforce reduction of approximately sixty percent to focus on the development of voreloxin. In March 2009, in conjunction with the closing of the Private Placement we conducted an additional workforce reduction of six employees. In light of our continued need for funding and expense control, we may be required to implement further workforce and expense reductions in the future. Further workforce and expense reductions could result in reduced progress on our internal programs. In addition, employees, whether or not directly affected by a reduction, may seek future employment with our business partners or competitors. Although our employees are required to sign a confidentiality agreement at the time of hire, the confidential nature of certain proprietary information may not be maintained in the course of any such future employment. Further, we believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. We may have difficulty retaining and attracting such personnel as a result of a perceived risk of future workforce and expense reductions. In addition, the implementation of expense reduction programs may result in the diversion of efforts of our executive management team and other key employees, which could adversely affect our business. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of our employees’ former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key personnel or the work product of current or former personnel could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize voreloxin, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. 22 We currently have limited marketing staff and no sales or distribution organization. If we are unable to develop a sales and marketing and distribution capability on our own or through collaborations with marketing partners, we will not be successful in commercializing voreloxin. We currently have no sales or distribution capabilities and limited marketing staff. We intend to establish our own sales and marketing organization with technical expertise and supporting distribution capabilities to commercialize voreloxin in North America, which will be expensive and time consuming. Any failure or delay in the development of our internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities would adversely impact the commercialization of these products. We plan to collaborate with third parties that have direct sales forces and established distribution systems to commercialize voreloxin. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenue is likely to be lower than if we directly marketed or sold voreloxin. In addition, any revenue we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and are only partially within our control. If we are unable to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms or at all, we may not be able to successfully commercialize voreloxin. If we are not successful in commercializing voreloxin or our future product candidates, if any, either on our own or through collaborations with one or more third parties, our future product revenue will suffer and we may incur significant additional losses. We depend on various consultants and advisors for the success and continuation of development efforts. We work extensively with various consultants and advisors, who provide advice and or services in various business and development functions, including clinical development, operations and strategy, regulatory matters, accounting and finance. The potential success of our drug development programs depends, in part, on continued collaborations with certain of these consultants and advisors. Our consultants and advisors are not our employees and may have commitments and obligations to other entities that may limit their availability to us. We do not know if we will be able to maintain such relationships or that such consultants and advisors will not enter into other arrangements with competitors, any of which could have a detrimental impact on our development objectives and our business. If conflicts of interest arise between our collaboration partners and us, any of them may act in their self interest, which may be adverse to our interests. If a conflict of interest arises between us and one or more of our collaboration partners, they may act in their own self interest or otherwise in a way that is not in the interest of our company or our stockholders. Our collaboration partners are conducting multiple product development efforts within the disease area that is the subject of collaboration with our company. In some of our collaborations, we have agreed not to conduct, independently or with any third party, any research that is competitive with the research conducted under our collaborations. Our collaboration partners, however, may develop, either alone or with others, products in related fields that are competitive with the product candidates that are the subject of these collaborations. Competing products, either developed by our collaboration partners or to which our collaboration partners have rights, may result in their withdrawal of support for a product candidate covered by the collaboration agreement. If one or more of our collaboration partners were to breach or terminate their collaboration agreements with us or otherwise fail to perform their obligations thereunder in a timely manner, the preclinical or clinical development or commercialization of the affected product candidates could be delayed or terminated. We do not know whether our collaboration partners will pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative product candidates, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors, as a means for developing treatments for the diseases targeted by collaboration agreements with our company. Our facilities are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other catastrophic disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to cease or curtail operations. Our facilities are located in the San Francisco Bay Area near known earthquake fault zones and are vulnerable to significant damage from earthquakes. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including fires, floods, power loss, communications failures and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities may be seriously or completely impaired and our data could be lost or destroyed. 23 Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. New or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. Complying with evolving interpretations of new or changed legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and procedures, and may divert management time and attention from potential revenue-generating activities to compliance matters. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may also be harmed. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. Global credit and financial market conditions negatively impact the value of our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments and our ability to meet our financing objectives. Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. Our marketable securities consist primarily of investments in readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. While, as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any downgrades, material losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or marketable securities, no assurance can be given that further deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or marketable securities or our ability to meet our current liquidity needs. Risks Related to Our Industry The regulatory approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and may prevent us from obtaining approval for the commercialization of voreloxin. The research, testing, manufacturing, selling and marketing of product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and other countries, which regulations differ from country to country. Neither we nor our collaboration partners are permitted to market our product candidates in the United States until we receive approval of a new drug application or NDA, from the FDA, or in any other country without the equivalent marketing approval from such country. We have not received marketing approval for voreloxin. None of our collaboration partners has had a product resulting from our collaboration enter clinical trials. In addition, failure to comply with FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizure or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production, and refusal to approve pending NDAs, supplements to approved NDAs or their foreign equivalents. Regulatory approval of an NDA or NDA supplement or a foreign equivalent is not guaranteed, and the approval process is expensive and may take several years. Furthermore, the development process for oncology products may take longer than in other therapeutic areas. Regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the drug approval process. Despite the time and expense exerted, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon clinical trials or to repeat or perform additional preclinical studies and clinical trials. The number of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for marketing approval varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition that the drug candidate is designed to address, and the regulations applicable to any particular drug candidate. The FDA or a foreign regulatory authority can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including: · the drug candidate may not be deemed safe or effective; · regulatory officials may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical trials sufficient; · the FDA or foreign regulatory authority might not approve our or our third-party manufacturer’s processes or facilities; or · the FDA or foreign regulatory authority may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations. 24 We may be subject to costly claims related to our clinical trials and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. Because we conduct clinical trials in humans, we face the risk that the use of voreloxin and any other future product candidates, if any, will result in adverse side effects. We cannot predict the possible harms or side effects that may result from our clinical trials. Although we have clinical trial liability insurance for up to $10.0 million aggregate, our insurance may be insufficient to cover any such events. We do not know whether we will be able to continue to obtain clinical trial coverage on acceptable terms, or at all. We may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limit of, our insurance coverage. There is also a risk that third parties that we have agreed to indemnify could incur liability. Any litigation arising from our clinical trials, even if we were ultimately successful, would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and may create adverse publicity. Even if we receive regulatory approval to sell voreloxin, the market may not be receptive to voreloxin. Even if voreloxin obtains regulatory approval voreloxin may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and/or the medical community. We believe that the degree of market acceptance will depend on a number of factors, including: · timing of market introduction of competitive products; · Efficacy of our product; · prevalence and severity of any side effects; · potential advantages or disadvantages over alternative treatments; · Strength of marketing and distribution support; · price of voreloxin, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments; and · availability of reimbursement from health maintenance organizations and other third-party payors. For example, the potential toxicity of single and repeated doses of voreloxin has been explored in a number of animal studies that suggest the dose-limiting toxicities in humans receiving voreloxin may be similar to some of those observed with approved cytotoxic agents, including reversible toxicity to bone marrow cells, the gastrointestinal system and other systems with rapidly dividing cells. In our Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials of voreloxin, we have witnessed the following side effects, irrespective of causality, ranging from mild to more severe: lowered white blood cell count that may lead to a serious or possibly life-threatening infection, hair loss, mouth sores, fatigue, nausea with or without vomiting, lowered platelet count, which may lead to an increase in bruising or bleeding, lowered red blood cell count (anemia), weakness, tiredness, shortness of breath, diarrhea and intestinal blockage. If voreloxin fails to achieve market acceptance, due to unacceptable side effects or any other reasons, we may not be able to generate significant revenue or to achieve or sustain profitability. Even if we receive regulatory approval for voreloxin, we will be subject to ongoing FDA and other regulatory obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense and limit our ability to commercialize voreloxin. Any regulatory approvals that we or our collaboration partners receive for voreloxin or our future product candidates, if any, may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing studies. In addition, even if approved, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for any product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the product, and could include withdrawal of the product from the market. Regulatory policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market voreloxin or our future products and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. 25 The coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved drugs is uncertain, and failure to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement could limit our ability to market voreloxin and decrease our ability to generate revenue. There is significant uncertainty related to the third party coverage and reimbursement of newly approved drugs both nationally and internationally. The commercial success of voreloxin and our future products, if any, in both domestic and international markets depends on whether third-party coverage and reimbursement is available for the ordering of our future products by the medical profession for use by their patients. Medicare, Medicaid, health maintenance organizations and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to manage healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drugs and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our future products. These payors may not view our future products as cost-effective, and reimbursement may not be available to consumers or may not be sufficient to allow our future products to be marketed on a competitive basis. Likewise, legislative or regulatory efforts to control or reduce healthcare costs or reform government healthcare programs could result in lower prices or rejection of our future products. Changes in coverage and reimbursement policies or healthcare cost containment initiatives that limit or restrict reimbursement for our future products may reduce any future product revenue. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing voreloxin abroad. We intend to market voreloxin in international markets. In order to market voreloxin in Canada, the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals. We have had limited interactions with foreign regulatory authorities, and the approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional testing at significant cost. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. The foreign regulatory approval processes may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize voreloxin or any other future products in any market. Foreign governments often impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability. We intend to seek approval to market voreloxin in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. If we obtain approval in one or more foreign jurisdictions, we will be subject to rules and regulations in those jurisdictions relating to voreloxin. In some foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, prescription drug pricing is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a drug candidate. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of voreloxin to other available therapies. If reimbursement of voreloxin is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. We may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to significant liabilities. We use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business and are subject to a variety of federal, state, regional and local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. Although we believe our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials and waste products comply with these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of hazardous materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could significantly exceed our insurance coverage, which is limited to $0.1 million for pollution cleanup, and we are uninsured for third-party contamination injury. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The closing of the Private Placement will result in substantial dilution to our stockholders. If we sell shares of our common stock in future financings or other arrangements, stockholders may experience additional dilution. On March 31, 2009, we entered into a securities purchase agreement with accredited investors, including certain members of management, providing for a private placement of up to $43.5 million of our securities or the Private Placement. The Private Placement includes up to $15.0 million of units consisting of convertible preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock in two closings. The initial closing for $10.0 million of units is expected to close in the near term, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. Subject to approval by our stockholders, an additional $5.0 million of units may be sold in the second closing, which closing may occur at our election or at the election of the investors in the Private Placement. We may elect to hold the second closing if the achievement of a specified milestone with respect to voreloxin has occurred and our common stock is trading above a specified floor price. If we do not deliver notice to the investors of our election to complete the second closing, or if the conditions for the second closing have not been met, the investors may elect to purchase the units in the second closing. Notice of an election to complete the second closing, either by us or the investors, must be delivered on or before the earliest to occur of December 31, 2009, the common equity closing described below or the occurrence of a qualifying alternative common stock financing. If the second closing occurs, it will be subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. Subject to the approval of our stockholders, the remaining tranche of $28.5 million of common stock may be sold in the common equity closing. The common equity closing may be completed at or prior to the earlier of December 31, 2010 and a qualifying alternative common stock financing, subject to approval of a majority of the investors and selling at least $28.5 million of common stock in the common equity closing. The common equity closing may also be completed upon the election of the holders of a majority of the convertible preferred stock prior to a date determined with reference to our cash balance at certain future dates. The closing of the Private Placement will result in substantial dilution to our stockholders. Following the initial closing, the holders of our common stock prior thereto will hold approximately 54.3% of our outstanding common stock (assuming conversion of the convertible preferred at the current conversion price), and will hold approximately 37.2% if the warrants issued at the initial closing are exercised in full. Following the second closing for $5.0 million of units, if completed, the holders of our common stock prior to the Private Placement will hold approximately 44.2% of our outstanding common stock (assuming conversion of the convertible preferred at the current conversion price), and will hold approximately 28.3% if the warrants issued at the initial and second closings are exercised in full. Following the common equity closing, if completed, the holders of our common stock prior to the Private Placement would hold approximately 19% of our outstanding common stock (assuming conversion of the convertible preferred at the current conversion price), and would hold approximately 15% if the warrants issued at the initial and second closings are exercised in full. We need to raise substantial additional funds, through the Private Placement and otherwise, to continue our operations, fund additional clinical trials of voreloxin and potentially commercialize voreloxin. We plan to continue to finance our operations with a combination of equity issuances (including the possible closings of the sale of units and common stock in the Private Placement and subject to the satisfaction of the conditions described above), debt arrangements and a possible partnership or license of development and/or commercialization rights to voreloxin. Any issuance of convertible debt securities, preferred stock or common stock may be at a discount from the then current trading price of our common stock. If we issue additional common or preferred stock or securities convertible into common stock, our stockholders will experience additional dilution, which may be significant. 26 We may not have the sufficient funding to distribute capital to our common stockholders or continue our business upon a change of control event. If a change of control (as that term is defined in the Certificate related to the convertible preferred to be issued in the Private Placement), which includes a sale or merger of Sunesis or a significant partnering transaction, occurs, the holders of the convertible preferred would be entitled to receive, before any proceeds are distributed to common stockholders, three times the amount that the investors in the Private Placement paid for the units ($10.0 million at the initial closing and, if consummated, an additional $5.0 million at the second closing), which could equal up to a total of $45.0 million. We would not have any capital to distribute to our common stockholders if the consideration received in a transaction that triggers a change of control event under the certificate of designation is less than this liquidation preference amount. Further, if the investors elect to treat a partnering transaction as a change of control, entitling the holders of the convertible preferred to the liquidation preference described above, the holders of the convertible preferred would be entitled to the full amount of any payments made by a corporate partner by surrendering the convertible preferred, up to the liquidation preference amount, which may leave us with insufficient resources to continue our business. This right of the holders of the convertible preferred may also impair our ability to enter into a significant partnering transaction since a partner would be willing to enter into a partnering agreement with us only if we have or had access to sufficient capital to satisfy our obligations under the partnering agreement. Whether or not we would have sufficient resources would depend on the terms of the partnering agreement and other cash resources available to us at that time. We cannot take fundamental actions related to Sunesis without the consent of a majority of the holders of the convertible preferred to be issued in the Private Placement. For as long as the convertible preferred is outstanding, the holders of the convertible preferred to be issued in the Private Placement will have a number of rights, including the right to approve any sale of the company, any significant partnering transaction, any issuance of debt or convertible preferred and, except if certain conditions are met, any issuance of common stock other than the second closing and the common equity closing contemplated by the Private Placement. It is possible that the interests of the holders of the convertible preferred and the holders of common stock may be inconsistent, resulting in the inability to obtain the consent of the holders of convertible preferred to matters that may be in the best interests of the common stockholders. The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. In 2008, our common stock traded as low as $0.18 and as high as $2.10. Factors that could cause continued volatility in the market price of our common stock include, but are not limited to: · failure to raise additional capital to carry through with our clinical development plans and current and future operations; · results from, and any delays in or discontinuance of, ongoing and planned clinical trials for voreloxin; · announcements of FDA non-approval of voreloxin, delays in filing regulatory documents with the FDA or other regulatory agencies, or delays in the review process by the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies; · announcements relating to our collaborations with Biogen Idec, J&JPRD and Merck; · announcements relating to restructuring and other operational changes; · delays in the commercialization of voreloxin or our future products, if any; · Market conditions in the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; · issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; · actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; · introduction of new products by our competitors; · issues in manufacturing voreloxin drug substance or drug product ,or future products, if any; · Market acceptance of voreloxin or our future products, if any; · deviations in our operating results from the estimates of analysts; · third-party healthcare reimbursement policies; · FDA or other U.S. or foreign regulatory actions affecting us or our industry; · litigation or public concern about the safety of voreloxin or future products, if any; · failure to develop or sustain an active and liquid trading market for our common stock; · sales of our common stock by our officers, directors or significant stockholders; and · additions or departures of key personnel. In addition, the stock markets in general, and the markets for pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of the issuer. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price or liquidity of our common stock. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the issuer. If any of our stockholders were to bring such a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and the attention of our management would be diverted from the operation of our business. 27 If we fail to continue to comply with the listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market, the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets could be negatively impacted. Our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. To maintain the listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market we are required to meet certain listing requirements, including a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share, a market value of publicly held shares (excluding shares held by our executive officers, directors and 10% or more stockholders) of at least $5 million and stockholders’ equity of at least $10 million. As of December 31, 2008, our stockholders’ equity was $6.5 million. As a result, we do not meet The NASDAQ Global Market’s stockholders’ equity listing requirement. In the event we complete the first closing contemplated by the Private Placement, our stockholders’ equity would be in excess of $10 million, which may forestall delisting of the Company by NASDAQ. Additionally, our common stock has traded in the near term below the $1.00 minimum bid price every trading day since September 17, 2008. Under normal circumstances, companies traded on NASDAQ would receive a deficiency notice from NASDAQ if their common stock has traded below the $1.00 minimum bid price for 30 consecutive business days. Due to market conditions, however, on October 16, 2008, NASDAQ announced suspension of the enforcement of rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price and the market value of publicly held shares, with the suspension to remain in place until Monday, July 20, 2009. If our common stock continues to trade below the $1.00 minimum bid price for 30 consecutive business days following the end of NASDAQ’s enforcement suspension or if the market value of our common stock trades below $5 million for 30 consecutive business days following the end of NASDAQ’s enforcement suspension, we would likely receive a deficiency notice. Following receipt of a deficiency notice, we expect we would have 180 calendar days to regain compliance by having our common stock trade over the $1.00 minimum bid price for at least a 10-day period and we would have 90 calendar days to regain compliance by having our publicly held shares trade over $5 million in value for at least a 10-day period. If we were to fail to regain compliance during the grace period, our common stock could be delisted. If we fail to comply with the listing standards, we may consider transferring to the NASDAQ Capital Market, provided we met the transfer criteria, which is a lower tier market, or our common stock may be delisted and traded on the over-the-counter bulletin board network. Moving our listing to the NASDAQ Capital Market could adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock. If our common stock were to be delisted by NASDAQ, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our common stock; · a reduced amount of news and analyst coverage for us; · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future; · reduced liquidity for our stockholders; · potential loss of confidence by collaboration partners and employees; and · loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Provisions of our charter documents or Delaware law could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult to change management. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders might otherwise consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempt by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include: · a classified Board of Directors so that not all directors are elected at one time; · a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent; · limitations on our stockholders’ ability to call special meetings of stockholders; · an advance notice requirement for stockholder proposals and nominations; and 28 · the authority of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with such terms as our Board of Directors may determine. In addition, Delaware law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person who, together with its affiliates, owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Provisions in our charter documents and provisions of Delaware law could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. The ownership of our common stock is highly concentrated, and your interests may conflict with the interests of our existing stockholders. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 7.5 percent of our outstanding common stock as of March 15, 2009. Accordingly, these stockholders, acting as a group, could have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders’ sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. We are at risk of securities class action litigation. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years. If we faced such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 