ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to certain risks, including those described below. Readers of this Annual Report on Form 10-K should take such risks into account in evaluating any investment decision involving our common stock. The risks below do not describe all risks applicable to our business and are intended only as a summary of certain material factors that affect our operations in the industries in which we operate. More detailed information concerning these and other risks is contained in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Our proposed merger with SunTrust may not be consummated or may be delayed, which may adversely affect our anticipated results of operations and financial condition, or both. In November 2007, we announced that we had signed a definitive merger agreement with SunTrust pursuant to which SunTrust would acquire GB&T. The merger is expected to close in the second quarter of 2008, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including the receipt of regulatory and GB&T shareholder approvals to the merger. There can be no assurance that all of these conditions will be satisfied. If these conditions are not satisfied or waived, we may be unable to complete the merger. 13 Upon completion of the merger, each share of common stock of GB&T issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time (excluding shares owned by GB&T or SunTrust) will be converted into the right to receive 0.1562 shares of SunTrust common stock. Cash will be paid in lieu of fractional shares. The Agreement also provides that each issued and outstanding option to purchase shares of GB&T common stock will be converted into an option to purchase the number of whole shares of SunTrust common stock equal to the number of shares of GB&T common stock subject to the stock option multiplied by 0.1562 (rounded down to the nearest whole share). The exercise price per share of the SunTrust stock option will equal the exercise price for the GB&T stock option divided by the 0.1562. Accordingly, if the price of SunTrust common stock declines prior to the completion of the merger, the value of the stock to be received by GB&T stockholders in the merger will decrease as compared to the value on the date the merger was announced. As is typical with change of control transactions, GB&T employees may experience uncertainty about their future role with the combined company. These employees may leave GB&T prior to or after the closing of the merger. This may adversely affect GB&T’s ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing, technical and other personnel, pending the closing of the merger. Similarly, GB&T’s customers may, in response to the announcement of the merger, delay or defer purchasing decisions. Any delay or deferral in purchasing decisions by GB&T’s customers could harm the business of GB&T in the short-term, and the combined company in the long-term. If the merger is not completed, the price of GB&T common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of GB&T reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed. The management team would have been distracted from running the business and GB&T will incur significant costs related to the merger, such as legal, accounting and some of the fees and expenses of their financial advisors, some of which costs must be paid even if the merger is not completed. Significant risks accompany our recent rapid expansion. We have recently experienced significant growth through acquisitions, including the acquisitions of Lumpkin County Bank and Southern Heritage Bank in August 2004, the acquisition of First National Bank of Gwinnett in March 2005 and the acquisition of Mountain State Bank in May 2006. These acquisitions could place a strain on our resources, systems, operations and cash flow. Our ability to manage these acquisitions will depend on our ability to monitor operations and control costs, maintain effective quality controls, expand our internal management and technical and accounting systems and otherwise successfully integrate acquired businesses into our company. If we fail to do so, our business, financial condition and operating results will be negatively impacted. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may experience significant loan losses which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any loan losses which may occur. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, volume, delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information. As we expand into new markets, our determination of the size of the allowance could be understated due to our lack of familiarity with market-specific factors. If our assumptions are wrong, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses, and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Additions to our allowance would significantly decrease our net income. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. 14 Deteriorating credit quality, particularly in real estate loans, has adversely impacted us and may continue to adversely impact us, leading to higher loan charge-offs or an increase in the our provision for loan losses. The second half of 2007 was highlighted by volatility in the financial markets associated with subprime mortgages, including adverse impacts on credit quality and liquidity within the financial markets. The volatility has been exacerbated by a general decline in the real estate and housing market along with significant mortgage loan related losses reported by many other financial institutions. The market areas surrounding metropolitan Atlanta in which our subsidiary banks operate have been significantly impacted by the decline in the real estate and housing market. Loan defaults result in a decrease in interest income and may require the establishment of or an increase in loan loss reserves. Furthermore, the decrease in interest income resulting from a loan default or defaults may be for a prolonged period of time as we seek to recover, primarily through legal proceedings, the outstanding principal balance, accrued interest and default interest due on a defaulted loan plus the legal costs incurred in pursuing our legal remedies. No assurance can be given that these conditions will not result in our need to increase loan loss reserves or charge-off a higher percentage of loans, thereby reducing net income. Furthermore, because our subsidiary banks rely more heavily on loans secured by real estate, a decrease in real estate values could cause higher loan losses and require higher loan loss provisions. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies where we operate. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our market areas. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may be negatively impacted. In addition, the economies of the communities in which we operate are substantially dependent on the growth of the economy in metropolitan Atlanta. To the extent that economic conditions in metropolitan Atlanta are unfavorable or do not continue to grow as projected, the economies in our market areas would be adversely affected. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our market areas if they do occur. In addition, the market value of the real estate securing loans as collateral could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 90% of our total loans were secured by real estate. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in our market areas could adversely affect the value of our assets, our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Risks associated with unpredictable economic and political conditions may be amplified as a result of our limited market areas. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. Because the majority of our borrowers are individuals and businesses located and doing business in Hall, Polk, Paulding, Cobb, Carroll, Bartow, Baldwin, Putnam, Houston, Clarke, Gwinnett, Dawson, Forsyth, Fulton and Lumpkin Counties, Georgia, our success will depend significantly upon the economic conditions in those and the surrounding counties. Unfavorable economic conditions in those and the surrounding counties may result in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit and may harm the financial stability of our customers. Due to our limited market areas, these negative conditions may have a more noticeable effect on us than would be experienced by a larger institution more able to spread these risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Our historical operating results may not be indicative of our future operating results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow our business at all. In addition, our rapid growth over the past few years, including our growth through acquisitions, may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. Our strong performance during this time period was, in part, the result of an extremely favorable residential mortgage refinancing market and our successful integration of acquisitions which occurred during that period. In the future, we may not have the benefit of a favorable interest rate environment, a strong residential mortgage market, or the ability to find suitable candidates for acquisition. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market 15 presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to a high percentage of our operating costs being fixed expenses. Departures of our key personnel may harm our ability to operate successfully. Our success has been and continues to be largely dependent upon the services of Richard A. Hunt, our President and Chief Executive Officer, other members of our senior management team, including our senior loan officers, and our board of directors, many of whom have significant relationships with our customers. Our continued success will depend, to a significant extent, on the continued service of these key personnel. The prolonged unavailability or the unexpected loss of any of them could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot be assured of the continued service of our senior management team or our board of directors with us. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience competition in each of our market areas from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions such as Bank of America, BB&T, Regions Bank, SunTrust, Synovus and Wachovia that operate offices in our market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our market areas, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Although we attempt to compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our market areas with local advertisements, personal contacts, and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance that this strategy will be successful. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and adversely affect our earnings. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC rather than shareholders. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our earnings. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq that are applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, including the costs of completing our audit and maintaining our internal controls. We face risks arising from any supervisory actions taken by our regulators, and HomeTown Bank of Villa Rica is currently operating under a Cease and Desist Order from the FDIC. On November 26, 2007, our subsidiary bank HomeTown Bank of Villa Rica executed and entered into a Stipulation and Consent Agreement with the FDIC and the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance agreeing to the issuance of a Cease and Desist Order (the “Order”). The Order became effective on December 6, 2007 and addressed the supervision and education of HTB’s board of directors, management team, equity capital and reserves in relation to the volume and quality of assets held, level of poor quality loans, allowance for loan and lease losses, lending and collection practices, routine and internal controls policies, and alleged violations of certain laws, regulations and FDIC statements of 16 policy. Under the terms of the Order, HTB has agreed to take a number of affirmative steps, including, among other things, increasing the participation of the board of directors in its affairs; assessing the qualifications and experience of management to comply with the requirements of the Order; achieving and maintaining a Tier 1 Capital ratio equal to or exceeding 7.0% of HTB’s total assets; in addition to a fully funded loan reserve, developing a plan to meet the minimum risk-based capital requirements as described in the FDIC Statement of Policy on Risk-Based Capital; eliminating certain assets classified as “loss”, “doubtful” or “substandard;” performing a risk segmentation analysis and reducing concentrations in the loan portfolio; establishing effective systems for loan review and grading, loan documentation, and allowance for loan and lease losses; and establishing a written strategic business plan. Over the past few months, HTB has begun the implementation of many of the items contained in the Order, and many of the conditions imposed by the Order are extensions of these actions, but we may not be able to cause HTB to adequately comply with the order. Failure by us to comply with the terms of this order or other applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. In addition, other of our subsidiary banks may be subject to possible regulatory action in the future. Our ability to pay dividends is limited and we may be unable to pay future dividends. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital. The ability of our bank subsidiaries to pay dividends to us is limited by their obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general restrictions on their dividends that are applicable to our regulated bank subsidiaries. If these regulatory requirements are not met, our subsidiary banks will not be able to pay dividends to us, and we may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. We have reported that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, and any unidentified material weaknesses could cause us to fail to meet our SEC and other reporting requirements. In connection with an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2007, management determined the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was not effective, as demonstrated by a material weakness in the controls over loan approval procedures related to loan proceeds disbursement on construction and development loans, and problem loan identification and reporting. We can provide no assurances that these material weaknesses have been fully corrected or that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be discovered in the future. If we fail to remediate any such material weaknesses, our operating results or client relationships could be adversely affected or we may fail to meet our SEC reporting requirements or our financial statements may contain a material misstatement. Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives or of preventing fraud due to its inherent limitations, regardless of how well designed or implemented. Internal control over financial reporting is a process that involves human diligence and compliance and is subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Because of these limitations, there is a risk that material misstatements or instances of fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by our internal control over financial reporting. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 