1A. RISK FACTORS CERTAIN FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT GROWTH AND PROFITS The following factors may affect the growth or profits of Hometown and should be considered by any prospective purchaser of Hometown’s securities: The Split-Up of Hometown Could Have an Adverse Impact on the Future Business of Hometown On June 1, 2005 the Board of Directors of Hometown approved the organization of Shaker Auto Group, Inc. as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. Following the organization of Shaker Auto Group, Inc., the Board of Directors authorized Hometown to contribute to Shaker Auto Group, Inc. all of the issued and outstanding shares of stock of each of its New England subsidiaries, and to receive in exchange therefore all of the issued and outstanding shares of stock of Shaker Auto Group, Inc. The New England subsidiaries include ERR Enterprises, Inc., Family Ford, Inc., Shaker’s, Inc., Shaker’s Lincoln/Mercury Auto Care, Inc., Hometown Brattleboro, Inc., Hometown Auto Framingham, Inc., Bay State Realty Holdings, Inc. and Brattleboro Realty Holdings, Inc. This transaction is called the “First Exchange”. As part of the First Exchange, Hometown will also make a cash payment to Shaker Auto Group, Inc. in order to provide Shaker Auto Group, Inc. with necessary working capital. The amount of cash that Hometown will contribute to Shaker Auto Group, Inc. will equal $5 million (adjusted for fluctuations in the value of the used cars, parts and accessories, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued expenses of the New England subsidiaries). Hometown anticipates that it will borrow up to $6.5 million in order to make this cash contribution to Shaker Auto Group, Inc., to finance the costs associated with the exchange, and to obtain working capital. In addition, on June 1, 2005 the Board of Directors of Hometown authorized that, immediately following the consummation of the First Exchange, all of the outstanding shares of stock of Shaker Auto Group, Inc. will be exchanged for all of the outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock of Hometown that are owned by the members of the Shaker Group. The Shaker Group includes Corey Shaker (individually and as custodian for Lindsay Shaker, Kristen Shaker and Edward Shaker), Edward Shaker Family Trust, Joseph Shaker, Shaker Irrevocable Trust, Richard Shaker Family Trust, Steven Shaker, Janet Shaker, Paul Shaker, Edward D. Shaker, Edward Shaker, Lillian Shaker, Richard Shaker and Rose Shaker. This transaction is referred to as the “Second Exchange”. If the First Exchange and the Second Exchange are consummated and the split-up of Hometown occurs, then: · The stockholders of Hometown will no longer have any interest in the New England subsidiaries, and so will not be able to share in any future growth in the business of the New England subsidiaries. · The business of Hometown will be less geographically dispersed, thereby making it more susceptible to regional fluctuations in business activity. · The business of Hometown will no longer have the benefit of the revenue generated by the New England subsidiaries. Hometown would have had revenues of approximately $131.7 million and $129.4 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively, without the New England subsidiaries. Hometown also would have had gross profit of approximately $18.8 million and $18.7 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively, without the New England subsidiaries. · The ratio of Hometown’s outstanding debt to its total stockholders’ equity will increase significantly due to the borrowing, which Hometown will undertake to consummate the exchanges. 17 · Hometown will be selling vehicles produced by a smaller number of manufacturers, and therefore will be more dependent on the public’s willingness to purchase the vehicles of a smaller number of manufacturers. A Decrease In Consumer Demand For Our New Vehicle Lines Or The Failure Of Its Manufacturer Could Adversely Affect The Results Of Our Operations. Our business is significantly dependent upon the sale of new vehicles from Toyota Motors, Ford Motors and Chevrolet. For the year ended December 31, 2005, Toyota Motor, Ford Motor and Chevrolet accounted for 53.0%, 21.7% and 12.5% of our new vehicle sales, respectively. New vehicle sales generate the majority of our gross revenue and lead to sales of higher-margin products and services such as used vehicle sales, finance and insurance products and repair and maintenance services. In addition, the success of each of our franchises is also dependent to a great extent on the success of the respective manufacturer, including its financial condition, marketing, vehicle demand, production capabilities and management. If one or more of these manufacturers were to suffer from labor strikes, negative publicity, including safety recalls of a particular vehicle model, or a decrease in consumer demand for its products, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The Failure To Meet Manufacturers’ Customer Satisfaction Requirements Could Limit Our Ability To Acquire Additional Dealerships And Participate In Manufacturers’ Incentive Programs. Many manufacturers attempt to measure customers' satisfaction with automobile dealerships through a CSI, or customer satisfaction index, rating system. These manufacturers may use a dealership's CSI scores as a factor in evaluating applications for additional dealership acquisitions and participation by a dealership in incentive programs. Additionally, from time to time, the components of the various manufacturer CSI scores have been modified and there is no assurance that such components will not be further modified or replaced by different systems in the future, which will make it more difficult for our key dealerships to meet such standards. If our dealerships fail to meet or exceed their manufacturers' CSI standards, those manufacturers may prohibit us from acquiring additional dealerships and/or participating in incentive programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Manufacturers' Control over Dealerships The dealerships operated by Hometown sell cars and light trucks pursuant to franchise or dealership agreements with Ford Motor, GM, Toyota Motor, Chrysler and Mazda. Through the terms and conditions of these agreements, such Manufacturers exert considerable influence over the operations of Hometown’s dealerships. Each of these agreements includes provisions for the termination or non-renewal of the manufacturer-dealer relationship for a variety of causes including any unapproved change of ownership or management and other material breaches of the franchise agreement. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. has extended Hometown’s current Toyota Dealer Agreement on a periodic basis since March of 2003. The most recent extension was for a period of three months through May 18, 2006. Previously on March 13, 2003, Hometown was notified by Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., that Hometown must correct certain operational deficiencies or make substantial progress toward rectifying such deficiencies. Toyota had previously expressed concerns that the financial resources of the Toyota dealerships were being used to finance the cash flow deficits of other Hometown dealerships and that because of this the financial health of the Toyota dealerships were detrimentally affected by a net working capital deficiency. Toyota requested and Hometown provided a written action plan and consolidated financial forecast. Toyota also expressed concerns about the impact of Ford Motor Credit’s financing terms upon the Toyota dealerships and the existing litigation, which has now been settled, including the Vergopias as discussed in Item 3. - Legal Proceedings and in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. Hometown developed and implemented plans to correct the operational deficiencies that would bring Hometown into compliance. Hometown has obtained written confirmations from Ford Motor Credit in response to Toyota’s requests for information relating to financing arrangements. In addition, Hometown has improved net working capital through the sale of a Chrysler/Jeep sales and service franchise in the second quarter of 2003 and advances on warranty income from Hometown’s Extended Service Plan vendor. Hometown has been in regular contact with Toyota to review the efforts of Hometown to resolve the deficiencies alleged by Toyota. The two Toyota dealerships for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 had combined revenues of $104.0 million and pre-tax income before allocation of corporate costs of $2.4 million. Hometown believes that it has corrected the alleged net working capital deficiency for the Toyota dealerships and that it has undertaken reasonable steps to alleviate the concerns expressed by Toyota. However, there can be no assurance that Toyota will enter into a new dealer agreement with Hometown and Toyota has reserved the right to terminate the Toyota Dealership Agreements if sufficient progress is not made to correct the alleged deficiencies. Should Hometown be notified by Toyota that they intend to terminate the Toyota Dealership Agreements, Hometown believes it would have a reasonable amount of time to cure the defaults. 18 To its knowledge, Hometown has, to date, complied with its other dealership agreements. There can be no assurance, however, that Hometown will not from time to time fail to comply with particular provisions of some or all of these agreements. Although such agreements generally afford Hometown a reasonable opportunity to cure violations, if a Manufacturer were to terminate or decline to renew one or more of Hometown’s significant agreements, such action could have a material adverse effect on Hometown and its business. If Automobile Manufacturers Discontinue Incentive Programs, Our Sales Volume or Profit Margin Could Be Materially and Adversely Affected. We depend on manufacturers for certain sales incentives, warranties and other programs that are intended to promote and support new vehicle sales. Manufacturers often make many changes to their incentive programs during each year. Some key incentive programs include: · customer rebates on new vehicles; · dealer incentives on new vehicles; · special financing or leasing terms; · warranties on new and used vehicles; and · sponsorship of used vehicle sales by authorized new vehicle dealers. A reduction or discontinuation of our key manufacturers' incentive programs may materially and adversely affect our revenues or profitability. We May Not Be Able To Retain Key Existing Employees Or Attract And Retain Qualified Employees. Our success depends to a large extent upon the abilities and continued efforts of its senior executive officers and key managers including Corey Shaker, William C. Muller Jr., Joseph Shaker, Steven Shaker and Charles F. Schwartz and on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees to operate our dealerships. If any of these persons becomes unavailable to continue in such capacity, or if Hometown were unable to attract and retain other qualified employees, its business or prospects could be adversely affected. Future Losses May Threaten The Viability Of Our Business. Hometown had net income of $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to net income of $3.9 million and $2.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 (restated) and 2003 (restated), respectively. The 2005 period includes a pre-tax gain of $0.6 million (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements) as well as costs associated with the Exchange Agreement of $0.5 million and related litigation costs of $0.2 million (see Note 19 and 15, respectively). The 2004 period includes a $2.5 million tax benefit associated with a reduction of a tax valuation allowance. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. The 2003 period included $0.9 million associated with the gain on sale of a Chrysler/Jeep Sales and Service Franchise and $0.6 million associated with a tax benefit recorded primarily due to the reduction of a tax valuation allowance. Although Hometown is currently profitable, if Hometown sustains significant losses in the future, our business could be materially and adversely affected and the value of our common stock might decline. 19 Our Limited Cash And Working Capital Could Have An Adverse Affect On Our Business. At December 31, 2005, our total cash and cash equivalents was approximately $6.5 million and our working capital was approximately $3.6 million. If we were to incur net losses in 2006 or subsequent years, then we may have insufficient working capital to maintain our current level of operations or provide for unexpected contingencies. In such event, we will need to seek additional capital from public or private equity or debt funding sources and we may not be able to raise needed cash on terms acceptable to us or at all. Financings may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our stockholders. If sources of financing are required, but are insufficient or unavailable, we will be required to modify our growth and operating plans to the extent of available funding, which could have an adverse affect on our business. The Cyclical Nature of Automobile Sales May Adversely Affect Our Profitability. Sales of motor vehicles, particularly new vehicles, historically have been subject to substantial cyclical variation characterized by oversupply and weak demand. We believe that the industry is affected by many factors, including general economic conditions, consumer confidence, the level of personal discretionary spending, interest rates and credit availability. There can be no assurance that the industry will not experience sustained periods of decline in vehicle sales, particularly new vehicle sales, in the future. Any such decline could have a material adverse affect on our business. Governmental Restrictions On Imported Products Could Impair Our Ability To Sell Foreign Vehicles Profitably. A portion of our new vehicle business involves the sale of vehicles, parts or vehicles composed of parts that are manufactured outside the United States. As a result, our operations will be subject to customary risks of importing merchandise, including fluctuations in the value of currencies, import duties, exchange controls, trade restrictions, work stoppages and general political and economic conditions in foreign countries. The United States or the countries from which our products are imported may, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, or adjust presently prevailing quotas, duties or tariffs, which could affect our operations and our ability to purchase imported vehicles and/or parts. The Concentration of Voting Power Could Prevent Our Class A Common Stockholders From Having Any Voice In Our Corporate Affairs. The holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to ten votes for each share held, while holders of our Class A common stock, are entitled to one vote per share held. Consequently, as of March 24, 2006, the holders of the Class B common stock, who also own approximately 58% of our outstanding common stock of all classes, will control approximately 91% of the aggregate number of votes eligible to be cast by stockholders for the election of directors and certain other stockholder actions, and will be in a position to control our policies and operations. Also as of March 24, 2006, our executive officers and directors control approximately 55% of the aggregate number of votes eligible to be cast by stockholders for the election of directors and certain other stockholder actions, and will be in a position to control our policies and operations. Accordingly, absent a significant increase in the number of shares of Class A common stock outstanding or conversion of Class B common stock into Class A common stock, the holders of shares of Class B common stock will be entitled, for the foreseeable future, to elect all members of the Board of Directors and control all matters subject to stockholder approval. 20 Regulations Affecting Low Price Securities Could Impair The Liquidity Of Our Class A Common Stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations which generally define "penny stock" to be an equity security that has a market price, as defined, of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions, including an exception of an equity security that is quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Equity securities trading on the NASD "OTC Bulletin Board" are subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our securities. For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser of such securities and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transactions prior to the purchase. Additionally, unless exempt, the rules require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered underwriter, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer's presumed control over the market. Finally among other requirements, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Since February 2001 our Class A common stock has been trading on the NASD OTC Bulletin Board, as a penny stock, and therefore is subject to these additional rules. As such, these penny stock rules may restrict the ability of stockholders to sell our Class A common stock. Consequently, the liquidity of our Class A common stock could be impaired, not only in the number of securities which could be bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of transactions, reduction in security analysts and new media coverage of Hometown, and lower prices for our securities than might otherwise be obtained. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 