Item 1A. Risk Factors The following describes some of the risk factors associated with UCBH Holdings, Inc. and subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the “Company”, “we”, “us” and “our”): Fluctuations in interest rates may negatively affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Banking companies’ earnings depend largely on the relationship between the cost of funds, primarily deposits and borrowings, and the yield on earning assets, primarily loans and investments. This relationship, known as the interest rate margin, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by economic and competitive factors, which influence interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and the level of nonperforming assets. Fluctuations in interest rates will also affect the customer’s demand for the products and services that we offer. The Company’s operations are subject to fluctuations in interest rates, to the degree that its interest-bearing liabilities may reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than their interest-earning assets. Given our current volume and mix of interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning assets, the Company’s net interest margin would be expected to increase during times of rising interest rates and, conversely, to decline during times of falling interest rates. As a result, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in a falling interest rate environment, we are subject to the risk of higher loan prepayments from our loan portfolio, which in turn may have a negative impact on our net interest margin. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Given the significance of our business in the United States, we are particularly exposed to downturns in the U.S. economy. The dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices, increasing foreclosures, and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and investment securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Due to the concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity in general. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected our business, financial position and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with the aforementioned events: • Continued or worsening of the current financial markets may cause increases in construction loan, commercial real estate and commercial business delinquencies and default rates, which could impact our provision for loan losses and charge-off levels. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers or to estimate the value of our assets may be impaired if the models and approaches we use become less predictive of future behaviors, valuations, assumptions or estimates. The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our loan portfolio or to estimate the value of certain assets such as non-investment grade securities and goodwill, requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impact the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans or impact the ultimate value of investment securities and goodwill, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation and which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. - 15 - Table of Contents • Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in securitization funding transactions on favorable terms or at all, could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. • Competition in the financial services industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. • We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums as a result of current market developments potentially depleting the FDIC’s insurance fund. • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry as a result of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”). Compliance with such increased regulation may increase our cost of doing business and limit our ability to pursue potential business opportunities. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption since the latter part of 2007. During 2008, such volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the market disruptions have created downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability from certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If the current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital on our domestic and international businesses, financial position and results of operations. Risks Relating to Use of Estimates and Valuations. Management makes various estimates that affect reported amounts and disclosures in our financial statements. These estimates are used in measuring the fair value of certain financial instruments, accounting for goodwill and identifiable intangibles, establishing our provision for loan losses, valuing equity-based compensation awards and assessing the realizability of deferred income taxes. Such estimates are based on available information and on judgments by management of the Company. As such, actual results could differ from these estimates and the differences could have a material effect on our financial statements. Where available, fair value is based on observable market prices or parameters or derived from such prices or parameters. Where observable prices or inputs are not available, valuations from outsourced service providers are generally obtained to assist the company. The valuations performed by the service providers involve some level of estimation and judgment, the degree of which is dependent on the price transparency of the financial instrument being valued and the financial instruments’ complexity. In particular, the residual tranche on our collateralized mortgage backed securities arising from our commercial real estate loan securitization, certain collateralized debt obligations and mortgage related asset backed securities, and certain other investments have no direct observable prices, and as a result, the related valuations require significant estimation and judgment and are therefore subject to significant subjectivity. Reliance on the estimation and judgment process increases in adverse market conditions with decreased liquidity, such as those experienced during 2008 and expected to continue for 2009. Our business is subject to the success of the state, national and international economies in which we operate. Because the majority of our borrowers and depositors are individuals and businesses located and doing business in the states of California, Georgia, Massachusetts, New York, Texas and Washington, our success depends on the strength of these economies. In addition, as we expand into other areas in the United States and into China, we will become increasingly dependent on the local economies in those markets, as well. Adverse economic conditions in these markets could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions, such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control, may adversely affect our profitability. In addition, any sustained period of increased payment - 16 - Table of Contents delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in our markets could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Our business strategy includes the execution of growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We expect to experience growth in both loans and deposits as well as in our level of operations. Achieving our growth targets will require us to attract customers that currently do business at other financial institutions in our existing and future markets. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to attract and retain experienced management staff, the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our markets and our ability to effectively manage our growth. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our growth goals. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We believe that our capital resources will satisfy these capital requirements for the foreseeable future. However, we may at some point need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. If we cannot attract deposits, our growth may be inhibited. We plan to increase the level of our assets, including our loan portfolio. Our ability to increase our assets depends in large part on our ability to attract additional deposits at competitive rates. We intend to seek additional deposits by continuing to establish and strengthening our personal relationships with our existing customers and by offering deposit products that are competitive with those offered by other financial institutions in our markets. We cannot provide assurance that these efforts will be successful. Our inability to attract additional deposits at competitive rates could have a material effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits at their maturity and support our future growth. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of our depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposits. As we continue to grow, we are likely to become more dependent on these sources, which include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, proceeds from the sale of loans, brokered certificates of deposit, federal funds, repurchase lines, and a line of credit from another financial institution. Our financial flexibility could be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. We may experience further writedowns on our financial instruments related to volatile and illiquid market conditions. The Company recorded a $43.1 million writedown on its investment and mortgage-backed securities available for sale during 2008. We continue to have exposure in our investment securities portfolio and as market conditions continue to evolve, the fair value of these financial instruments could further deteriorate. In addition, recent market - 17 - Table of Contents volatility has made it difficult to determine the fair value of certain of our investment securities and mortgage servicing rights. Further, cashflow shortfalls arising from actual prepayments and credit defaults exceeding our original estimates could in turn trigger other-than-temporary impairment in certain of our investment securities. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the value of these investment securities and mortgage servicing rights in future periods. Any of these factors could require us to take further writedowns in our investment securities portfolio, which could adversely affect our results of operations and regulatory capital in the future. Intense competition exists for loans and deposits. The banking and financial services business is highly competitive. Competitive pressure is increasing as a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. The Company must compete for loans, deposits and customers with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies, money market funds, credit unions and other nonbank financial service providers. Many of these competitors are much larger in total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets and offer a broader array of financial services than we do. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete effectively in its markets and the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if circumstances affecting the nature or level of competition change. The loan portfolio may not perform as expected. The Company’s performance and prospects will depend to a significant extent on the performance of its loan portfolio. There are a number of factors that could negatively impact the performance of the loan portfolio including, among others, the general political and economic conditions in the Company’s markets, significant changes in the mix of our loan products, significant changes in the interest rate environment, pressures from products and services from competitors and any negative changes in the financial condition of the individual borrowers. In addition, to the extent that the Company does not retain the customers that it acquires in its acquisitions or incurs additional expenses in retaining them, there could be adverse effects on the Company’s future consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level that is adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the respective balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. If the value of real estate in our primary market areas were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In the past three years, we have been growing our commercial business and construction loan portfolios. In addition, with a significant portion of our loans continuing to be in the state of California, a decline in local economic conditions could continue to adversely affect the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans. A further decline in property values would diminish our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral, making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. Additionally, a further decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would reduce our future profits and regulatory capital. Real estate values are affected by various factors in addition to local economic conditions, including, among other things, changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. - 18 - Table of Contents We are subject to operational risk and operational events that could adversely affect our business. The Company’s business is highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across geographic boundaries, both domestically and internationally. The Company performs the functions required to operate in different geographies either on our own or through agreements with third party service providers. The Company relies on the ability of its employees and its internal systems and information systems to process a high volume of transactions. In the event of a failure or improper operation of the Company or a third party service provider’s systems, or improper action by employees or third parties, the Company could suffer financial loss, business disruption, regulatory intervention or reputational damage, which in turn could adversely impact our financial condition. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of future acquisitions or branch expansions, the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. We have announced that our future growth strategy could include acquiring other financial service companies. In addition, we intend to establish additional overseas offices and branches in the Asia Pacific region. We could encounter unplanned difficulties associated with integration of the operations with new acquisitions or branch expansions. These difficulties could include retaining customers, successful conversion of systems and processes, combining different corporate cultures, and retaining key employees. Any problems with integration would negatively impact the Company’s day-to-day operations and increase the costs associated with the acquisition/branch expansion, which, in turn, could negatively affect the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Unanticipated costs relating to the Company’s acquisitions could reduce its future earnings per share. To the extent we make acquisitions, we face numerous risks and uncertainties with respect to combining operational, accounting and data processing systems and management controls, and in integrating relationships with business partners and customers. Unexpected transition costs or future operating expenses, as well as other types of unanticipated issues or developments, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s future results of operations and financial condition. There is no assurance that any business we acquire in the future will be successfully integrated and result in all of the positive benefits anticipated. If we are not able to integrate successfully such acquisitions, there is a risk that our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, there is a risk that the goodwill arising from any acquisitions could be subject to potential impairment. The Company may engage in further expansion through new branch openings or acquisitions, which could adversely affect net income. The Company has disclosed its intention to take advantage of future expansion opportunities. There are risks associated with such expansion and, in particular, expansion through acquisitions. These risks include, among others, incorrectly assessing the asset quality of a bank acquired in a particular acquisition, encountering greater than anticipated costs of opening new branches or integrating acquired businesses, facing resistance from customers or employees, and being unable to profitably deploy assets acquired through expansion or in acquisitions. Additional country- and region-specific risks are associated with any expansion and acquisitions that take place outside the United States, including in China. To the extent UCBH issues capital stock in connection with additional acquisitions, these acquisitions and related stock issuances may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and share ownership. UCBH may issue additional capital stock in the future. To fund internal growth and future acquisitions, UCBH may offer shares of its common stock to the public and future acquirees including to China Minsheng Banking Corp., Ltd. Any such offerings would have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and share ownership. In addition, there is no assurance that UCBH would be able to effectively utilize any additional capital in the manner that it has done so in the past. UCBH does not currently have any definitive understandings or plans to raise additional capital. - 19 - Table of Contents On October 7, 2007, UCBH and China Minsheng Banking Corp., Ltd., a Chinese joint stock commercial bank (“Minsheng”), entered into an Investment Agreement, which was amended by a letter agreement dated as of September 22, 2008 (as so amended the “Investment Agreement”). Under the Investment Agreement, upon mutual consent and regulatory approvals, Minsheng may increase its ownership to 20.0% (calculated on a post-closing basis). The issuance of shares to Minsheng may have a dilutive effect on UCBH’s earnings per share as well as change the ownership control balance of UCBH which may have an impact on the management of UCBH’s operations and future growth. Changes in government regulation and monetary policy may have an unfavorable impact on the Company. The banking industry is subject to extensive federal and state supervision and regulation. Such regulations limit the manner in which the Company conducts its business, undertakes new investments and activities, and obtains financing. These regulations have been designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and consumers, and not to benefit holders of the Company’s common stock. Financial institution regulation has also been the subject of considerable legislation in recent years, and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, none of which is within our control. New legislation or changes in, or repeal of, existing laws may cause the Company’s consolidated results to differ materially from its historical performance. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects credit conditions for financial institutions, primarily through open market operations in United States government securities, the discount rate for bank borrowings, and bank reserve requirements. Any material change in these conditions would likely have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. On October 3, 2008, the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) was signed into law. TARP gave the Treasury authority to deploy up to $750 billion into the financial system with the goal of improving liquidity in the financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the Treasury announced a voluntary TARP Capital Purchase Program (the “CP Program”), pursuant to which the Treasury may purchase equity securities of eligible U.S. financial institutions, to enable such financial institutions to build capital and increase the flow of financing to U.S. businesses and consumers and thereby support the U.S. economy. On November 14, 2008, UCBH issued to the Treasury, in exchange for aggregate consideration of $298.7 million, (i) 298,737 shares of UCBH’s Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C, having a par value of $0.01 per share and a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (the “Series C Preferred Stock”), and (ii) a warrant (the “Warrant”) to purchase up to 7,847,732 shares of UCBH’s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, at an exercise price of $5.71 per share, subject to certain anti-dilution and other adjustments. By participating in the CP Program, the Company is subject to certain terms and conditions as well as on-going monthly reporting requirements to the FDIC that could have an impact on the Company’s business. Certain terms and conditions of the CP Program include restriction of dividend payments to the Company’s shareholders and adopting the Treasury Department’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance. The Company’s participation in the program must adopt the Treasury Department’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance, for the period during which Treasury holds equity issued under the CP Program. These standards generally apply to the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, plus the next three most highly compensated executive officers. On February 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury and the federal bank regulatory agencies announced in a Joint Statement a new Financial Stability Plan which would include additional capital support for banks under a Capital Assistance Program, a public-private investment fund to address existing bank loan portfolios and expanded funding for the Federal Reserve Board’s pending Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility to restart lending and the securitization markets. On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) was signed into law by President Obama. The ARRA includes a wide variety of programs intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health, and education needs. In addition, the ARRA imposes certain new executive compensation and corporate expenditure limits on all current and future TARP recipients, including the - 20 - Table of Contents Company, until the institution has repaid the U.S. Treasury, which is now permitted under the ARRA without penalty and without the need to raise new capital, subject to the U.S. Treasury’s consultation with the recipient’s appropriate regulatory agency. The executive compensation standards are more stringent than those currently in effect under the TARP Capital Purchase Program or those previously proposed by the U.S. Treasury. The new standards include (but are not limited to) (i) prohibitions on bonuses, retention awards and other incentive compensation, other than restricted stock grants which do not fully vest during the TARP period up to one-third of an employee’s total annual compensation, (ii) prohibitions on golden parachute payments for departure from a company, (iii) an expanded clawback of bonuses, retention awards, and incentive compensation if payment is based on materially inaccurate statements of earnings, revenues, gains or other criteria, (iv) prohibitions on compensation plans that encourage manipulation of reported earnings, (v) retroactive review of bonuses, retention awards and other compensation previously provided by TARP recipients if found by the U.S. Treasury to be inconsistent with the purposes of TARP or otherwise contrary to public interest, (vi) required establishment of a company-wide policy regarding “excessive or luxury expenditures,” and (vii) inclusion in a participant’s proxy statements for annual shareholder meetings of a nonbinding “Say on Pay” shareholder vote on the compensation of executives. On February 23, 2008, the U.S. Treasury and the federal bank regulatory agencies issued a Joint Statement providing further guidance with respect to the Capital Assistance Program (“CAP”) announced February 10, 2009, including: (i) that the CAP will be initiated on February 25, 2009 and will include “stress test” assessments of major banks and that should the “stress test” indicate that an additional capital buffer is warranted, institutions will have an opportunity to turn first to private sources of capital; otherwise the temporary capital buffer will be made available from the government; (ii) such additional government capital will be in the form of mandatory convertible preferred shares, which would be converted into common equity shares only as needed over time to keep banks in a well-capitalized position and can be retired under improved financial conditions before the conversion becomes mandatory; and (iii) previous capital injections under the TARP Capital Purchase Program will also be eligible to be exchanged for the mandatory convertible preferred shares. The conversion of preferred shares to common equity shares would enable institutions to maintain or enhance the quality of their capital by increasing their tangible common equity capital ratios; however, such conversions would necessarily dilute the interests of existing shareholders. On February 25, 2009, the first day the CAP program was initiated, the U.S. Treasury released the actual terms of the program, stating that the purpose of the CAP is to restore confidence throughout the financial system that the nation’s largest banking institutions have a sufficient capital cushion against larger than expected future losses, should they occur due to a more severe economic environment, and to support lending to creditworthy borrowers. Under the CAP terms, eligible U.S. banking institutions with assets in excess of $100 billion on a consolidated basis are required to participate in coordinated supervisory assessments, which are forward-looking “stress test” assessments to evaluate the capital needs of the institution under a more challenging economic environment. Should this assessment indicate the need for the bank to establish an additional capital buffer to withstand more stressful conditions, these larger institutions may access the CAP immediately as a means to establish any necessary additional buffer or they may delay the CAP funding for six months to raise the capital privately. Eligible U.S. banking institutions with assets below $100 billion may also obtain capital from the CAP. The CAP program does not replace the TARP Capital Purchase Program, but is an additional program to the TARP Capital Purchase Program, and is open to eligible institutions regardless of whether they participated in the TARP Capital Purchase Program. The deadline to apply to the CAP is May 25, 2009. Recipients of capital under the CAP will be subject to the same executive compensation requirements as if they had received TARP Capital Purchase Program. Pursuant to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, further compensation restrictions, including significant limitations on incentive compensation and “golden parachute” payments, have been imposed on the Company’s most highly compensated employees, which may make it more difficult for the Company to retain and recruit qualified personnel. Also, the restriction of dividend payments may result in constraining the Company’s future capital management practices. - 21 - Table of Contents Our outstanding preferred stock impacts net income available to our common stockholders and earnings per common share, and the TARP Warrant as well may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared and the accretion on discount on our outstanding preferred stock will reduce the net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. Our outstanding preferred stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the TARP Warrant is exercised. Although the U.S. Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the TARP Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the TARP Warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the TARP Warrant is not bound by this restriction. We are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. In addition to the regulatory oversight in the United States of America, we are subject to regulation in China. As such, we are subject to intervention by regulatory authorities, such as the CBRC in China and by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority for our Hong Kong branch. Among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. Significant regulatory action against the Company could result in an adverse financial impact, cause significant reputational harm, or harm the Company’s business prospects. New laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients may also adversely impact the Company’s business. Defaults by larger financial institutions could adversely affect financial markets in general. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing and other relationships between such institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect the Company. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation authorizing the United States government to take direct actions within the financial services industry will help strengthen the financial system. During 2008, the economic downturn and continuing turmoil in the housing and construction sectors, financial markets, and commercial real estate have caused failures of FDIC-insured institutions. These recent failures have caused the reserve ratio of the DIF to fall below the required minimum threshold. Because the fund reserve fell below the required minimum and that the FDIC expects the reserve ratio to remain below the required minimum for the foreseeable future, the Reform Act required the FDIC to establish and implement a Restoration Plan to restore the reserve ratio to at least the required minimum within five years. On October 7, 2008, the FDIC established a Restoration Plan for the DIF. In the FDIC’s view, restoring the reserve ratio to at least the required minimum requires an increase in the deposit insurance assessment rates. Since the current rates are already three basis points above the existing base rate schedule, a new rulemaking was required. The rulemaking proposed that effective January 1, 2009, current assessment rates would increase uniformly 7 basis points for the first quarter 2009 assessment period. Effective April 1, 2009, the rulemaking proposed to alter the way in which the FDIC’s risk-based assessment system differentiates for risk and set new deposit insurance assessment rates. The final rule on the assessment rate schedule for the first quarter of 2009 raises the current rates by 7 basis points for the quarterly assessment period beginning January 1, 2009. On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) was signed into law. The legislation was the result of a proposal by the U.S. Treasury Department to the United States Congress in September 2008, in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets, as well as the going concern threats to certain investment banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to EESA, the Treasury will have the authority to, among other things, invest in financial institutions and deploy up to $750 billion into the financial system with the goal of improving liquidity in the financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the Treasury announced the voluntary TARP Capital Purchase Program (the “CP Program”), whereby the Treasury may purchase - 22 - Table of Contents equity securities of eligible U.S. financial institutions, to enable such financial institutions to build capital and increase the flow of financing to U.S. businesses and consumers and thereby support the U.S. economy. In addition, in November 2008, the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program was enacted, which enables the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to temporarily guarantee newly-issued senior debt of FDIC insured institutions and their holding companies, as well as noninterest-bearing deposit transaction accounts. The behavior of depositors in regard to the new level of FDIC insurance could cause new customers to open deposit accounts at UCB. The level of composition of UCB’s deposit portfolio directly impacts UCB’s funding cost and net interest margin. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that EESA and these related actions will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of EESA and these related actions to help stabilize the financial markets, coupled with a continuation or worsening of the current financial markets, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, access to credit, or the trading price of our investment securities. If we do not effectively manage liquidity, our business could be adversely affected. Our liquidity is critical to our ability to operate our business, as well as to allow us to grow and maintain profitability. The primary sources of funding for our banking subsidiary include customer deposits and wholesale market-based funding. A compromise on liquidity can have a significant negative effect on the Company. Some potential conditions that could negatively affect the Company’s liquidity may be beyond our control and may be a result of general market disruption, negative views about the financial services industry generally, or operational problems that affect third parties, which in turn affects ourselves. Our ability to raise funding in the debt or capital markets has been and could continue to be adversely affected by economic conditions in the United States and international markets including China. As a result, we may experience diminished access to capital markets, and unforeseen outflows of cash, including customer deposits. As a holding company, UCBH Holdings, Inc. relies on the earnings of its wholly owned subsidiary, United Commercial Bank, for its cash flow and consequent ability to pay dividends and satisfy obligations. The payments by United Commercial Bank typically take the form of dividends. United Commercial Bank is, in turn, subject to regulatory capital requirements or other regulatory or contractual restrictions on its ability to provide such dividends. Limitations in the dividends that UCBH Holdings, Inc. receives from United Commercial Bank could negatively affect UCBH Holdings, Inc.’s liquidity position. The Company’s credit ratings are important to our liquidity. Rating agencies regularly evaluate us and our investment securities. Their ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength, as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. In light of the difficulties currently being experienced in the financial services industry and the financial markets, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. Our inability to maintain those ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs or limit our access to funding in the capital markets. - 23 - Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 