ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results (Cautionary Statements Under Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) Forward-Looking Statements This annual report on Form 10-K contains certain “forward-looking statements,” as such term is defined in Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These statements set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We have attempted to identify such statements by using words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will,” “could” and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future events or future operating or financial performance or strategies. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: • our services, including the development and deployment of data products and services based on IP and other technologies and strategies to expand our targeted customer base and broaden our sales channels and the opening and expansion of our data center and collocation services; • the operation of our network, including with respect to the development of IP-based services and data center and collocation services; • our liquidity and financial resources, including anticipated capital expenditures, funding of capital expenditures, anticipated levels of indebtedness, and the ability to raise capital through financing activities, including capital leases and similar financings; • trends related to and management’s expectations regarding results of operations, required capital expenditures, integration of acquired businesses, revenues from existing and new lines of business and sales channels, OIBDA (as defined in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”), gross margin, order volumes, expenses and cash flows, including but not limited to those statements set forth in Item 7; and • sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and the outcome of contingencies, such as regulatory, legal and tax proceedings and audits. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties related to our businesses. These are factors that we believe, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by Section 21E of the Exchange Act. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Our forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from current beliefs and expectations. In addition to the risk factors identified under the captions below, the operation and results of our business are subject to risks and uncertainties identified elsewhere in 22 Table of Contents this annual report on Form 10-K as well as general risks and uncertainties such as those relating to general economic conditions and demand for telecommunications services. Risks Related to Liquidity and Financial Resources We face a number of risks related to current global economic conditions and the severe tightening in the global credit markets. The global economy and capital and credit markets have been experiencing exceptional turmoil and upheaval. Many major economies entered significant recessions in 2008 which continued throughout much of 2009. Ongoing concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, volatile energy costs, volatile foreign currency markets, sovereign debt levels and associated default risk, geopolitical issues, the availability, cost and terms of credit, consumer and business confidence, substantially increased unemployment and the crisis in the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for both established and emerging economies, including those in which we operate. In the second half of 2008, added concerns fueled by government interventions in financial systems led to increased market uncertainty and instability in both U.S. and international capital and credit markets. These conditions contributed to economic uncertainty of levels not seen in over seventy years. The availability, cost and terms of credit have also been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid markets and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in many cases cease to provide, credit to businesses and consumers. These factors have led to a substantial decrease in spending by businesses and consumers, and a corresponding decrease in or deferral of global infrastructure spending, which could impact future demand for our services. Turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies and prolonged declines in business and consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers, including our ability to refinance maturing debt instruments and to access the capital markets and obtain capital lease and similar financing to meet liquidity needs. We have incurred substantial operating losses since inception and will continue to experience negative cash flows. For most periods since inception, we have incurred substantial operating losses. Although we expect our operating results to improve over time, there is no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated operating improvements will be realized on schedule or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. In 2010, operating cash flows will be adversely impacted by approximately $55 million of annual interest expense resulting primarily from the issuance of the 12% Senior Secured Notes and the associated refinancing in September 2009. We also anticipate lower IRUs and prepaid services than those realized in 2009. Despite these factors, in the short-term, we expect cash provided by operating activities (including IRUs and prepaid sales) to exceed purchases of property and equipment. This expectation is based in part on raising financing for such property and equipment from vendors and others in amounts somewhat lower than those arranged in 2009. Our ability to arrange such financings is subject to negotiating acceptable terms from equipment vendors and financing parties. This could prove more difficult given current conditions in the credit markets. If we are unable to arrange such financings, we may not be able to make all necessary capital and other expenditures to run and grow our business, including the expenditures that will be necessary to implement our operational imperatives. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our ability to generate positive cash flow over the long term is predicated on significant revenue growth in our target enterprise, carrier data and indirect sales channel, together with economies of scale expected from such growth. We can provide no assurances that we will be successful in these regards. If our cash flows do not improve, we would need to arrange financing facilities in order to continue as a going concern. We may be 23 Table of Contents unable to arrange financing facilities on acceptable terms or at all. Adverse conditions in global capital and credit markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms or at all. We may not be able to achieve anticipated economies of scale. We expect that economies of scale will allow us to increase revenues while incurring incremental costs that are proportionately lower than those applicable to our existing business. If the increased costs required to support our revenue growth turn out to be greater than anticipated, we may be unable to improve our profitability and/or cash flows even if revenue growth goals are achieved. Adverse conditions in the world economy could temper our growth, although the value we offer prospective customers could attract business in a cost-saving environment. In addition, improvements in our cost structure in the short term become more difficult as the amount of potential savings decreases due to the success of past savings initiatives. The sale of IRUs and similar prepayments for services continue to be an important source of cash flows for us, representing tens of millions of dollars of cash in most quarters. If customers’ buying patterns were to change such that those traditionally buying IRUs were to switch to monthly payment plans, our liquidity would be adversely affected. Adverse conditions in the world economy and tightening of global credit markets could cause customers to change their buying patterns away from prepaid services and IRUs in order to conserve cash. In addition, the large dollar amounts and long sales cycles typically associated with IRU sales increase the volatility of our quarter-to-quarter cash flow results. Access vendors could force us to accelerate payments to them, which would adversely impact our working capital and liquidity. Cost of access represents our single largest expense and gives rise to material current liabilities. We actively manage our working capital through careful attention to our receivables and payables. In the past, certain telecommunications carriers from which we purchase access services demanded that we pay for access services on a more timely basis, which resulted in increased demands on our liquidity. If such demands were to continue to a greater degree than anticipated, or if access vendors were to insist on significant deposits to secure our access payment obligations, we could be prevented from meeting our cash flow projections and our long-term liquidity requirements. Current global economic and credit market conditions could cause access vendors to insist upon more timely payment or the provision of security deposits. The covenants in our major debt instruments limit our financial and operational flexibility. We and numerous of our subsidiaries have material indebtedness outstanding under the following debt instruments (collectively, the “Principal Debt Instruments”): • GCL’s $750 million aggregate original principal amount of 12% senior secured notes due 2015 (the “12% Senior Secured Notes”); • GCL’s $144 million aggregate original principal amount of 5.0% convertible senior notes due 2011 (the “5% Convertible Notes”); and • GCUK’s $200 million and 157 million pounds sterling aggregate principal amount (approximately $439 million combined at the exchange rate at December 31, 2009) of senior secured notes due 2014 (the “GCUK Notes” or “GCUK Senior Secured Notes”). The Principal Debt Instruments generally contain covenants and events of default that are customary for high-yield debt facilities, including limitations, on: • incurring or guaranteeing additional indebtedness and issuing preferred stock; • dividend and other payments to holders of equity and subordinated debt; 24 Table of Contents • investments or other restricted payments; • asset sales, consolidations, and mergers; • creating or assuming liens; and • transactions with affiliates. These covenants impose significant restrictions on the ability of entities in our ROW and GC Impsat segments to make intercompany funds transfers to entities in our GCUK segment and vice versa. In addition, the covenants in the 12% Senior Secured Notes indenture impose certain limitations on the ability of entities in our ROW and GC Impsat segments to make intercompany funds transfers to other entities in those segments that have not granted liens on their assets to secure the 12% Senior Secured Notes. Additionally, the certificate of designations governing our 2% Cumulative Preferred Shares (the “GCL Preferred Stock”) requires the holder’s approval for certain major corporate actions of us and/or our subsidiaries. See Item 5, “Market for Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters—Description of Global Crossing Equity Securities.” Finally, many of our assets are leased by us under capital lease facilities (the “Capital Lease Facilities”) that contain non-financial covenants which require specific tracking and reporting procedures for the physical location of the leased assets. The failure to meet these covenants allows the lessor to accelerate payments under the lease. We have in the past failed to meet such non-financial covenants in certain Capital Lease Facilities. A failure to comply with the restrictions or covenants contained in our Principal Debt Instruments or certain Capital Lease Facilities could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in an acceleration of all such debts, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If the indebtedness under any of our Principal Debt Instruments or material Capital Lease Facilities were to be accelerated, we would have to raise funds from alternative sources, which may not be available on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. Moreover, a default by any of our subsidiaries under any capital lease obligation or debt obligation totaling more than $2.5 million, as well as the bankruptcy or insolvency of any of our subsidiaries, could trigger cross-default provisions under certain of our debt instruments. For a further discussion of these issues and our indebtedness, please see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Indebtedness.” Our international corporate structure limits the availability of our consolidated cash resources for intercompany funding purposes and reduces our financial flexibility. As a holding company, all of our revenues are generated by our subsidiaries and substantially all of our assets are owned by our subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent upon dividends and inter-company transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other payment obligations. Our subsidiaries are incorporated and operate in various jurisdictions throughout the world. Some of our subsidiaries have cash on hand that exceeds their immediate requirements but that cannot be distributed or loaned to us or our other subsidiaries to fund our or their operations due to contractual restrictions (such as those described in the immediately preceding risk factor) or legal constraints related to the lack of retained earnings, the solvency of such entities or other local law restrictions (e.g., restrictions related to foreign exchange controls or transfer approvals). These restrictions, which apply to most of our subsidiaries given their history of operating losses, could cause us or certain of our subsidiaries to become and remain illiquid while other subsidiaries have sufficient liquidity to meet their liquidity needs. Also see “—We are exposed to significant currency exchange rate risks and our net loss may suffer due to currency translations,” below, for a discussion of important exchange rate and expatriation risks involving our Venezuelan and other subsidiaries. 25 Table of Contents We cannot predict our future tax liabilities. If we become subject to increased levels of taxation or if tax contingencies are resolved adversely, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Due to the international nature of our operations, we are subject to multiple sets of complex and varying tax laws and rules. We cannot predict the amount of future tax liabilities to which we may become subject. Any increase in the amount of taxation incurred as a result of our operations or due to legislative or regulatory changes could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we believe that our current tax provisions are reasonable and appropriate, we cannot be assured that these items will be settled for the amounts accrued or that additional exposures will not be identified in the future. We have material tax-related contingent liabilities that are difficult to predict or quantify. See “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 and Note 20, “Commitments, Contingencies and Other” to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K. The Ministry of Finance in Bermuda has granted a tax assurance to GCL and its Bermuda incorporated subsidiaries under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act, 1966, which expires in 2016. GCL and its Bermuda incorporated subsidiaries have received an assurance from the Ministry of Finance granting an exemption, until March 28, 2016, from the imposition of tax under any applicable Bermuda law computed on profits or income or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or on any tax in the nature of estate, duty or inheritance tax, provided that such an exemption shall not prevent the application of any such tax or duty to such persons as are ordinarily resident in Bermuda and shall not prevent the application of any tax payable in accordance with the provisions of the Land Tax Act, 1967 or otherwise payable in relation to land in Bermuda leased to GCL or its Bermuda incorporated subsidiaries. To date, the Ministry of Finance has given no indication that the Ministry would extend the term of the assurance beyond 2016 or would not change the tax treatment afforded to exempted companies either before or after 2016. We may become subject to unanticipated tax liabilities that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We and certain of our subsidiaries are Bermuda-based companies, and we believe that a significant portion of our income will not be subject to tax in Bermuda, which currently has no corporate income tax, or in other countries in which we conduct activities or in which our customers are located, including the United States and the United Kingdom. This belief is based on our current position under the tax laws of the countries in which we have assets or conduct activities. This position is subject to review and possible challenge by taxing authorities and to possible changes in law that may have a retroactive effect. In addition, tax legislation and regulations are proposed from time to time in various jurisdictions, which, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, in December 2006, the U.S. Department of the Treasury finalized regulations with respect to the source of international and other types of communications income. The regulations as adopted could, under certain circumstances, subject us to U.S. withholding tax on a significant portion of our income, possibly even if we are not found to have engaged in a trade or business within the United States or to have had an office or other fixed place of business in the United States. Our pension plans may require additional funding and negatively impact our cash flows. Certain North American and European hourly and salaried employees are covered by our defined benefit pension plans. On December 31, 1996, our North American plan was frozen and all employees hired thereafter are not eligible to participate in the plan. Our U.K. plans were closed to new employees on December 31, 1999. Our pension expense and required contributions to our pension plan are directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected rate of return on plan assets, the actual rate of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions we use to measure the defined benefit pension plan obligations. As of December 31, 2009, the projected benefit obligation under our pension plans was approximately $89 million ($14 million for U.S. plans and $75 million for U.K. plans) and the value of plan assets was approximately $77 million ($17 million for 26 Table of Contents US plans and $60 million for U.K. plans), resulting in our pension plans being underfunded by approximately $12 million, of which $4 million is attributable to participants of the plans and is therefore not a liability of GCL. If plan assets perform below expectations, future pension expense and funding obligations will increase, which would have a negative impact on our cash flows from operations, decrease borrowing capacity and increase interest expense. Risks Related to Our Business Operations We are subject to several unpredictable factors that may adversely impact our results of operations. Our revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Some of the primary factors that may affect our results of operations include the following: • changes in pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • general economic conditions as well as those specific to our industry; • demand for our higher margin services; • costs of acquisitions, including the integration of such acquisitions; • changes in regulations and regulatory rulings or interpretations; and • changes in tax law or policy. A delay in generating revenue or the timing of recognizing revenue and expenses could cause significant variations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Results in future quarters may be below analysts’ and investors’ expectations, as well as our own forecasts. Our rights to the use of the fiber that make up our network may be affected by the financial stability of our fiber providers. The majority of our North American network and some of the other transmission facilities comprising our global network are held by us through long-term leases or IRU agreements with various companies that provide us access to fiber owned by them. The bankruptcy or financial collapse of one of these fiber providers could result in a loss of our rights under such leases and agreements with the provider, which in turn could have a negative impact on the integrity of our network and ultimately on our results of operations. To our knowledge, the rights of the holder of such rights in strands of fiber in the event of bankruptcy have not been specifically addressed by the judiciary at the state or federal level in the U.S. or in most of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and, therefore, our rights with respect to fiber agreements under such circumstances are unclear. In addition, the laws governing the ability of fiber providers to provide us access to their fibers pursuant to long-term leases and IRU agreements vary by jurisdiction and, in some cases, the term of such leases and agreements may be limited by law. Our providers, along with certain of our subsidiaries, also are parties to legal proceedings the outcome of which may affect our rights to use certain portions of our network. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings—Qwest Rights of-Way Litigation.” We may not be able to continue to connect our network to incumbent carriers’ networks or maintain Internet peering arrangements on favorable terms. We must be party to interconnection agreements with incumbent carriers and certain independent carriers in order to connect our customers to the PSTN. If we are unable to renegotiate or maintain interconnection agreements in all of our markets on favorable terms, it could adversely affect our ability to provide services in the affected markets. In Europe, although certain rights to interconnect with other networks are subject to legal and regulatory protection, new IP-based networking technologies are becoming more generally adopted within the 27 Table of Contents industry and new commercial and charging models are being developed for interworking between these networks. The extent to which such new models may affect our business is still uncertain. Peering agreements with Internet service providers allow us to access the Internet and exchange transit for free with these providers. Depending on the relative size of the carriers involved, these exchanges may be made without settlement charge. Recently, many Internet service providers that previously offered peering have reduced or eliminated peering relationships or are establishing new, more restrictive criteria for peering and an increasing number of these service providers are seeking to impose charges for transit. Increases in costs associated with Internet and exchange transit could have a material adverse effect on our margins for our products that require Internet access. We may not be able to renegotiate or maintain peering arrangements on favorable terms, which would impair our growth and performance. The Network Security Agreement imposes significant requirements on us. A violation of the agreement could have severe consequences. The Network Security Agreement imposes significant requirements on us related to information storage and management; traffic routing and management; physical, logical, and network security arrangements; personnel screening and training; corporate governance practices; and other matters. While we expect to continue to comply fully with our obligations under the Network Security Agreement, it is impossible to eliminate completely the risk of a violation of the agreement. The consequences of a violation of the Network Security Agreement could be severe, potentially including the revocation of our FCC licenses in the U.S., which would result in the cessation of our U.S. operations and would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. It is expensive and difficult to switch new customers to our network, and lack of cooperation of incumbent carriers can slow the new customer connection process. It is expensive and difficult for us to switch a new customer to our network because: • we usually charge the potential customer certain one-time installation fees, and, although the fees may be less than the cost to install a new customer, they may act as a deterrent to becoming our customer; and • we require cooperation from the incumbent carrier in instances where there is no direct connection between the customer and our network, which can complicate and add to the time that it takes to provision a new customer’s service. Many of our principal competitors, the domestic and international incumbent carriers, are already established providers of local telephone services to all or virtually all telephone subscribers within their respective service areas. Their physical connections from their premises to those of their customers are expensive and difficult to duplicate. To complete the new customer provisioning process, we rely on the incumbent carrier to process certain information. The incumbent carriers have a financial interest in retaining their customers, which could reduce their willingness to cooperate with our new customer provisioning requests, thereby adversely impacting our ability to compete and grow revenues. Further consolidation of incumbent carriers with other telecommunications service providers may make these problems more acute. The operation, administration, maintenance and repair of our systems require significant expenses and are subject to risks that could lead to disruptions in our services and the failure of our systems to operate as intended for their full design life. Each of our systems is subject to the risks inherent in large-scale, complex fiber-optic telecommunications systems including (i) equipment breakdowns; (ii) service interruptions; (iii) power outages; (iv) software defects; (v) security breaches; (vi) physical damage to access lines and equipment and (vii) natural disasters. The operation, administration, maintenance and repair of our systems require the coordination and integration of 28 Table of Contents sophisticated and highly specialized hardware and software technologies and equipment located throughout the world and require significant operating and capital expenses. Our systems may not continue to function as expected in a cost-effective manner. For example, as our network elements become obsolete or reach their design life capacity, our operating and capital expenses could significantly increase depending on the nature and extent of repairs or replacements. The failure of the hardware or software to function as required could render a cable system unable to perform at design specifications or at all, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, interruptions in service or performance problems, for whatever reason, could undermine confidence in our services and cause us to lose customers or make it more difficult to attract new ones. In particular, a failure of our operations support systems could adversely affect our ability to process orders and provision sales, and to bill for services efficiently and accurately, all of which could cause us to suffer customer dissatisfaction, loss of business, loss of revenue or the inability to add customers on a timely basis, any of which would adversely affect our revenues. In addition, because many of our services are critical to our customers’ businesses, a significant interruption in service could result in lost profits or other loss to customers. Although we attempt to disclaim liability for these losses in our service agreements, a court might not enforce a limitation on liability under certain conditions, which could expose us to financial loss. In addition, we often provide customers with guaranteed service level commitments. If we are unable to meet these guaranteed service level commitments for whatever reason, we may be obligated to provide our customers with credits, generally in the form of free service for a short period of time, which could negatively affect our operating results and we may be exposed to other liabilities. We may not be able to retain our key management personnel or attract additional skilled management personnel. We depend on key members of our senior management team to remain competitive and achieve our strategic goals. Our inability to retain our key management personnel or to continue to attract skilled management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Recent capital expenditure levels may not be sustainable. While capital expenditures have remained relatively stable at levels significantly below those prevailing prior to our bankruptcy reorganization, such levels may not be sustainable in the future, particularly as our business continues to grow. Our ability to fund future capital expenditures may be limited by our ability to generate sufficient cash flow, including raising any necessary financings, which could prove to be difficult if the adverse conditions in the credit markets continue. Intellectual property and proprietary rights of others could prevent us from using necessary technology. While we do not believe that there exists any technology patented by others, or other intellectual property owned by others, that is necessary for us to provide our services and that is not now subject to a license allowing us to use it, from time to time we receive claims from third parties in this regard and there can be no assurances as to our ability to defend against those claims successfully. If such intellectual property is owned by others and not licensed by us, we would have to negotiate a license for the use of that intellectual property. We may not be able to negotiate such a license at a price that is acceptable or at all. This could force us to cease offering products and services incorporating such intellectual property, and adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents We may not be successful in making or integrating acquisitions with our business or may not be able to realize the benefits we anticipate from such acquisitions. We have in the past, and may in the future, pursue acquisitions to grow our business. The process of integrating acquisitions with our business so that the consolidated business operates as efficiently as possible requires significant corporate resources, and such efficiencies will be limited to some degree by our Principal Debt Instruments and Capital Lease Facilities. In addition, this process could cause the interruption to, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of our or our acquisitions’ businesses, including customer service, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The management of the integration of the businesses, systems and culture of our acquisitions requires the continued development of our financial and management controls, including the integration of information systems and structure, the integration of product offerings and customer base, the integration of networks, the retention of current personnel and the training of new personnel, all of which could disrupt the timeliness of financial information, place a strain on our management resources and require significant expenditure. Any significant diversion of management’s attention or any major difficulties encountered in the integration of the business could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have substantial international operations and face political, legal, tax, regulatory and other risks from our operations in foreign jurisdictions. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from international operations and have substantial physical assets in several jurisdictions along our routes, including Venezuela, Ecuador, Argentina and other countries in Latin America, Asia and Europe. In addition, we lease capacity and obtain services from carriers in those and other regions. As a result, our business is subject to particular risks from operating in some of these areas, including: uncertain and rapidly changing political, regulatory and economic conditions, including the possibility of civil unrest, vandalism affecting cable assets, terrorism, armed conflict or the seizure or nationalizing of private property; unexpected changes in regulatory environments and trade barriers; interruptions to essential energy inputs; exchange and/or transfer restrictions related to foreign currency; direct and indirect price controls; cancellation of contract rights; delays or denial of government approval; exposure to new or different accounting, legal, tax and regulatory standards; burdensome tax, customs, duties or regulatory assessments based on new or differing interpretations of law or regulations; and difficulties in staffing and managing operations consistently through our several operating areas. These risks significantly increased as a result of our acquisition of the operations of Impsat in Latin America. In addition, managing operations in multiple jurisdictions may place further strain on our ability to manage growth. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) and other anticorruption laws, and our failure to comply therewith could result in penalties which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and/or other benefits. Although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees and agents comply with the FCPA, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will work effectively all of the time or protect us against liability under the FCPA for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries with respect to our business or any businesses that we acquire. We operate in a number of jurisdictions that pose a high risk of potential FCPA violations. As previously disclosed, between 2004 and 2006 (prior to our acquisition of Impsat in May 2007), Impsat paid approximately $23,000 (based on the exchange rate at the time of payment) to government officials to allow performance of construction work notwithstanding the fact that required permits were not obtained. Also as previously disclosed, the Colombian National Attorney General (Procuraduría General de la Nación (“NAG”)) published a decision in November 2007 finding (as part of broader allegations unrelated to Impsat) that funds originated with Impsat had been used by a contractor retained by Impsat to bribe an official within Colombia’s homeland security agency (Departamento Administrativo de Seguridad (“DAS”)). 30 Table of Contents Impsat retained the contractor in question in 2003 and paid him approximately $44,000 (based on the exchange rate at the time of payment) in 2004; we have not been able to determine whether any of these funds went to DAS officials. The NAG’s decision included a referral of the report and its findings to the criminal prosecutor, and the referral included specific reference to Impsat. One DAS official has been criminally convicted in connection with a related investigation, and criminal proceedings are pending against two other individuals (including a former senior official at DAS). We have brought these matters to the attention of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which has commenced a preliminary inquiry into the matter. We are cooperating with that inquiry, which may result in legal action. At this point we are unable to predict the duration, scope or result of that inquiry. We also notified the U. S. Department of Justice. If we are not in compliance with the FCPA and other laws governing the conduct of business with government entities (including local laws), we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Any investigation of any potential violations of the FCPA or other anticorruption laws by U.S. or foreign authorities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to significant currency transfer restrictions and currency exchange rate risks and our net loss may suffer due to currency translations. Certain of our current and prospective customers derive their revenue in currencies other than U.S. dollars but are invoiced by us in U.S. dollars. The obligations of customers with substantial revenue in foreign currencies may be subject to unpredictable and indeterminate increases in the event that such currencies depreciate in value relative to the U.S. dollar. Furthermore, such customers may become subject to exchange control regulations restricting the conversion of their revenue currencies into U.S. dollars. In either event, the affected customers may not be able to pay us in U.S. dollars. In addition, where we issue invoices for our services in currencies other than U.S. dollars, our net loss may suffer due to currency translations in the event that such currencies depreciate relative to the U.S. dollar and we cannot or do not elect to enter into currency hedging arrangements in respect of those payment obligations. Declines in the value of foreign currencies (such as the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar discussed below) relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our ability to market our services to customers whose revenues are denominated in those currencies. We conduct a significant portion of our business using the British Pound Sterling, the Euro and the Brazilian Real. Appreciation of the U.S. dollar adversely impacts our consolidated revenue. Since we tend to incur costs in the same currency in which we realize revenue, the impact on operating income and operating cash flow is largely mitigated. However, if the U.S. dollar appreciates significantly, future revenues, operating income and operating cash flows could be materially affected. In addition, the appreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies reduces the U.S. dollar value of cash balances held in those currencies. Certain Latin American economies have experienced shortages in foreign currency reserves and have adopted restrictions on the ability to expatriate local earnings and convert local currencies into U.S. dollars. Any such shortages or restrictions may limit or impede our ability to transfer or to convert such currencies into U.S. dollars and to expatriate such funds for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on our indebtedness. These restrictions have a significantly greater impact on us and on our ability to service our debt as a result of the Impsat acquisition. In addition, currency devaluations in one country may have adverse effects in another country. We are subject to some limitations on the ability of our Venezuelan operations to expatriate cash and may be subject to similar restrictions elsewhere in the future. In Venezuela, the official bolivares—U.S. dollar exchange rate established by the Venezuelan Central Bank and the Venezuelan Ministry of Finance attributes to the bolivar a value that is significantly greater than the value prevailing on the parallel market. The official rate is the rate used for recording the assets, liabilities and transactions for our Venezuelan subsidiary. Moreover, the conversion of bolivares into foreign currencies is limited by the current exchange control regime. Accordingly, the acquisition of foreign currency by Venezuelan companies to honor foreign debt, pay dividends or otherwise 31 Table of Contents expatriate capital is subject to registration and subject to a process of application and approval by the Comisión de Administración de Divisas (“CADIVI”) and to the availability of foreign currency within the guidelines set forth by the National Executive Power for the allocation of foreign currency. Such approvals have become less forthcoming over time, resulting in a significant buildup of excess cash in our Venezuelan subsidiary and a significant increase in our exchange rate and exchange control risks. We cannot predict if and when we will obtain CADIVI approval to honor foreign debt, distribute dividends or otherwise expatriate capital using the official Venezuelan exchange rate or the timing of receipt of such approval. As of December 31, 2009, approximately $53 million (valued at the fixed official rate) of our cash and cash equivalents were held in Venezuelan bolivars. For 2009, our Venezuelan subsidiary generated approximately $57 million of our consolidated revenue and $26 million of our consolidated OIBDA at the fixed official rate. As of December 31, 2009, our Venezuelan subsidiary had $47 million of net monetary assets of which $5 million and $42 million were denominated in U.S. dollars and Venezuelan bolivars, respectively. The official exchange rate is 2.15 bolivars to the U.S. dollar at December 31, 2009. The estimated exchange rate on the parallel market is between 5.82 and 5.97 bolivars to the U.S. dollar at December 31, 2009. On January 8, 2010, the Venezuelan government announced the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar. The official rate increased from 2.15 Venezuelan bolivars to the U.S. dollar to 4.30 for non-essential goods (which is deemed to include telecommunications services). If enacted prior to December 31, 2009, this devaluation would have reduced our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and net monetary assets by approximately $27 million and $21 million, respectively, based on the bolivars balances as of December 31, 2009. The devaluation of our net monetary assets will result in a foreign exchange loss recognized in our consolidated statement of operations in the first quarter of 2010. If we elected, or were required, to convert our Venezuelan subsidiary’s cash balances into U.S. dollars using unofficial, parallel currency-exchange mechanisms that may be available from time to time, material currency exchange losses would likely be incurred in the period of conversion. Additionally, if we further determined that the unofficial parallel rate should be used in the future to measure bolivar-based assets, liabilities and transactions, reported results could be further adversely affected. Economic and political conditions in Latin America pose numerous risks to our operations. Our business operations in the Latin American region constitute a material portion of our business. As events in the Latin American region have demonstrated, negative economic or political developments in one country in the region can lead to or exacerbate economic or political instability elsewhere in the region. Furthermore, events in recent years in other developing markets have placed pressures on the stability of the currencies of a number of countries in Latin America in which we operate, including Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Venezuela. While certain areas in the Latin American region have experienced economic growth, this recovery remains fragile. Pressures on local currencies are likely to have an adverse effect on our customers. Volatility in regional currencies and capital markets could also have an adverse effect on our ability and that of our customers to gain access to international capital markets for necessary financing, refinancing and repatriation of earnings. In addition, any changes to the political and economic conditions in certain Latin American countries could materially and adversely impact our future business, operations, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in January 2007, the Venezuelan National Assembly issued an Enabling Law allowing the President of Venezuela to carry out the nationalization of certain businesses in the electricity and energy sectors, as well as Venezuela’s largest telecommunications company, Compañía Anónima Nacional Teléfonos de Venezuela (“CANTV”). CANTV was nationalized in the same year. A statement from the Venezuelan minister of telecommunications and director of the Comisión Nacional de Telecomunicaciones, the country’s telecommunications regulatory authority, has indicated that the nationalization of CANTV does not imply the nationalization of the telecommunications sector as a whole. However, there can be no assurance that such nationalization plans will not also extend to other businesses in the telecommunications sector, including our business. The government has also announced plans to modify the telecommunications law, and we cannot predict the impact of such amendments to our business. In addition, a referendum held on February 15, 2009, approved an amendment to the nation’s constitution removing presidential term limits. 32 Table of Contents Inflation and certain government measures to curb inflation in some Latin American countries may have adverse effects on their economies, our business and our operations. Some Latin American countries have historically experienced high rates of inflation. Inflation and some measures implemented to curb inflation have had significant negative effects on the economies of these countries. Governmental actions taken in an effort to curb inflation, coupled with speculation about possible future actions, have contributed to economic uncertainty at times in most Latin American countries. These countries may experience high levels of inflation in the future that could lead to further government intervention in the economy, including the introduction of government policies that could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if any of these countries experience high rates of inflation, we may not be able to adjust the price of our services sufficiently to offset the effects of inflation on our cost structures. A high inflation environment would also have negative effects on the level of economic activity and employment and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our most important government customers have the right to terminate their contracts with us if a change of control occurs or to reduce the services they purchase from us. Various agencies of the U.K. Government together represented approximately 49%, 47% and 47% of the GCUK Segment’s revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Many of GCUK’s government contracts contain broad change of control provisions that permit the customer to terminate the contract if GCUK undergoes a change of control. A termination in many instances gives rise to other rights of the government customer, including, in some cases, the right to purchase some of GCUK’s assets used in servicing those contracts. Some change of control provisions may be triggered when any lender (other than a bank lender in the normal course of business) or a noteholder or group of noteholders would have the right to control GCUK or the majority of GCUK’s assets upon any event, including upon bankruptcy. If GCUK’s noteholders have the right to control GCUK or the majority of GCUK’s assets upon such event, it could be deemed to be a change of control of GCUK. Similarly, if ST Telemedia’s ownership interest in Global Crossing falls below certain levels, it could be deemed to be an indirect change of control of GCUK. In addition, most of GCUK’s government contracts do not include significant minimum usage guarantees. Thus, the applicable customers could simply choose not to use GCUK’s services and move to another telecommunications provider. If any of GCUK’s significant government contracts were terminated as a result of a change of control or otherwise, or if the applicable customers were to significantly reduce the services that they purchase under these contracts, we could experience a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, one of GCUK’s principal customer relationships is with the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office (“FCO”), to whom GCUK provides an international telecommunications network known as the FTN. GCUK’s contract to provide the FTN is scheduled to expire in May 2010. GCUK has entered into transition arrangements in respect of the FCO’s migration to the replacement provider for the FTN. Risks Related to Competition and Our Industry The prices that we charge for our services have been decreasing, and we expect that such decreases will continue over time. We expect overall price erosion in our industry to continue at varying rates based on our service portfolio and reflective of marketplace demand and competition relative to existing capabilities and availability. Accordingly, our historical revenues are not indicative of future revenues based on comparable traffic volumes. If the prices for our services decrease for whatever reason and we are unable to increase profitable sales volumes through additional services or otherwise or correspondingly reduce operational costs, our operating results would be adversely affected. Similarly, future price decreases could be greater than we are anticipating. 33 Table of Contents Technological advances and regulatory changes are eroding traditional barriers between formerly distinct telecommunications markets, which could increase the competition we face and put downward pressure on prices. New technologies, such as VoIP, and regulatory changes are blurring the distinctions between traditional and emerging telecommunications markets. As a result, a competitor in any of our business areas is potentially a competitor in our other business areas. We face competition in each of our markets from the incumbent carrier in that market and from more recent market entrants. In addition, we could face competition from other companies, such as other competitive carriers, cable television companies, microwave carriers, wireless telephone system operators and private networks built by large end-users or municipalities. The introduction of new technologies may reduce the cost of services similar to those that we plan to provide and create significant new competitors with superior cost structures. If we are not able to compete effectively with any of these industry participants, or if this competition places excessive downward pressure on prices, our operating results would be adversely affected. In the U.K., the OFCOM is encouraging new operators to build their own infrastructures to compete with BT and during recent years, BT has made significant progress towards completing construction of a new, IP based network which it refers to as a “21st Century” network. At present, it is not clear how operators will connect with this network or as to how and at what level BT will charge for access to the network. In January 2010, discussions were initiated between BT and communications providers, including us, on the interconnect nodes that will be available for calls originating on Voice over “Next Generation Access” (“VoNGA”) lines and how migration from TDM to IP Interconnect for VoNGA will take place. Regulation has historically provided for the expansion of competition in the marketplace and the subsequent lowering of tariffs charged across the industry. However, there is no way to know what regulatory actions OFCOM and other governmental and regulatory agencies may take in the future. Individually and collectively, these matters could have negative effects on our U.K. business, which could materially and adversely affect our consolidated business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our competitors have superior resources, which could place us at a cost and price disadvantage. Many of our existing and potential competitors have significant competitive advantages, including greater market presence, name recognition and financial, technological and personnel resources, superior engineering and marketing capabilities, more ubiquitous network reach, and significantly larger installed customer bases. As a result, many of our competitors can raise capital at a lower cost than we can, and they may be able to adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities (including regulatory changes) more readily, and devote greater resources to the development, marketing and sale of products and services than we can. Also, our competitors’ greater brand name recognition may require us to price our services at lower levels in order to win business. Our competitors’ financial advantages may give them the ability to reduce their prices for an extended period of time if they so choose. Many of these advantages are expected to increase with the trend toward consolidation by large industry participants. Continued industry consolidation could further strengthen our competitors and adversely affect our prospects. Failure to develop and introduce new services could affect our ability to compete in the industry. We continuously develop, test and introduce new communications services that are delivered over our communications network. These new services are intended to allow us to address new segments of the communications marketplace and to compete for additional customers. In certain instances, the introduction of new services requires the successful development of new technology. To the extent that upgrades of existing technology are required for the introduction of new services, the success of these upgrades may be dependent on reaching mutually-acceptable terms with vendors and on vendors meeting their obligations in a timely manner. 34 Table of Contents In addition, new service offerings may not be widely accepted by our customers. If our new service offerings are not widely accepted by our customers, we may terminate those service offerings and we may be required to impair any assets or technology used to develop or offer those services. If we are not able to successfully complete the development and introduction of new services in a timely manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our selection of technology could prove to be incorrect, ineffective or unacceptably costly, which would limit our ability to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs, emerging competition and frequent new product and service introductions. The future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to adapt to these factors in a timely and cost-effective manner. If we do not replace or upgrade technology and equipment that becomes obsolete, or if the technology choices we make prove to be incorrect, ineffective or unacceptably costly, we will be unable to compete effectively because we will not be able to meet the expectations of our customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to regulation in each of the countries in which we operate and require us to obtain and maintain a number of governmental licenses and permits. If we fail to comply with those regulatory requirements or to obtain and maintain those licenses and permits, including payment of related fees, if any, we may not be able to conduct our business. Moreover, those regulatory requirements could change in a manner that significantly increases our costs or otherwise adversely affects our operations. In the ordinary course of constructing our networks and providing our services we are required to obtain and maintain a variety of telecommunications and other licenses and authorizations in the countries in which we operate, as well as rights-of-way from utilities, railroads, incumbent carriers and other persons. We also must comply with a variety of regulatory obligations. Due to the political and economic risks associated with the countries in which we operate, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our licenses or that they will be renewed upon their expiration. Our failure to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, authorizations and rights-of-way, or to comply with the obligations imposed upon license holders including the payment of fees, in one or more countries, may result in sanctions or additional costs, including the revocation of authority to provide services in one or more countries. Our operations around the world are subject to regulation at the regional level (e.g., European Union), the national level (e.g. FCC) and, in many cases, at the state, provincial, and local levels. The regulation of telecommunications networks and services around the world varies widely. In some countries, the range of services that we are legally permitted to provide may be limited. In other countries, existing telecommunications legislation is in the process of development, is unclear or inconsistent, or is applied in an unequal or discriminatory fashion, or inadequate judicial, regulatory or other forums are available to address these inadequacies or disputes. Our inability or failure to comply with the telecommunications laws and regulations of one or more of the countries in which we operate could result in the temporary or permanent suspension of operations in one or more countries. We also may be prohibited from entering certain countries at all or from providing all of our services in one or more countries. In addition, many of the countries in which we operate are conducting regulatory or other proceedings that will affect the implementation of their telecommunications legislation. We cannot be certain of the outcome of these proceedings. These proceedings may affect the manner in which we are permitted to provide our services in these countries as well as the level of fees and taxes payable to the government, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 35 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may adversely affect the financial markets and our business and operations. Significant terrorist attacks against the U.S., the U.K. or other countries in which we operate are possible. It is possible that our physical facilities or network control systems could be the target of such attacks or that such attacks could impact other telecommunications companies or infrastructure or the Internet in a manner that disrupts our operations. Terrorist attacks (or threats of attack) also could lead to volatility or illiquidity in world financial markets and could otherwise adversely affect the economy. These events could adversely affect our business and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms. In addition, it is becoming increasingly difficult and expensive to obtain adequate insurance for losses due to terrorist attacks. Uninsured losses as a result of such attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to our Common Stock We have a very substantial overhang of common stock and a majority shareholder that owns a substantial portion of common stock and securities convertible into our common stock. Future sales of our common stock by our majority shareholder could significantly increase the market supply of such shares and future acquisitions by our majority shareholder will decrease the liquidity of our common stock, each of which may negatively affect the market price of our shares and impact our ability to raise capital. As of February 1, 2010, there were 60,227,150 shares of our common stock outstanding, 18,000,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon the conversion of our outstanding convertible preferred stock and 6,255,440 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of our 5% Convertible Notes. We also have a significant number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding stock options and vesting of unvested restricted stock units (see Item 5, “Market for Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters—Equity Compensation Plan Information”). As of February 1, 2010, STT Crossing, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ST Telemedia, beneficially owned over 60.5% of our capital stock. Although the shares beneficially owned by STT Crossing are not freely transferable under the Securities Act, ST Telemedia has the contractual right to require us to register sales of such restricted stock at any time. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock into the market, the availability of shares of common stock for future sale, or any acquisition of common shares by ST Telemedia and its affiliates will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued upon the exercise of stock options or conversion of any convertible securities), the purchase of a substantial amount of common shares by our affiliates, or the perception that such sales or acquisitions could occur, may materially and adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and impact our ability to raise capital. Federal law generally prohibits more than 25% of GCL’s capital stock to be owned by foreign persons. Ownership of GCL’s common stock is governed in part by the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. Other than ownership by ST Telemedia and its affiliates, which cannot exceed 66.25% without prior FCC approval, foreign ownership of GCL’s capital stock (i.e., total equity interests held by non-U.S. persons) generally cannot exceed 25% without prior FCC approval. Although we monitor foreign ownership in our capital stock, we cannot necessarily detect or control it and could be subject to governmental penalties if trading in our capital stock resulted in foreign ownership in excess of 25% without prior FCC approval. ST Telemedia is our majority stockholder. A subsidiary of ST Telemedia owns over 60.5% of GCL’s outstanding capital stock. As a result, ST Telemedia has the power to elect the majority of GCL’s directors. Under applicable law, GCL’s articles of association and bye-laws and the certificate of designations for GCL’s preferred stock, certain actions cannot be 36 Table of Contents taken without the approval of holders of a majority of our voting stock including, without limitation, mergers, certain acquisitions and dispositions, issuances of additional equity securities (with certain enumerated exceptions), incurrences of indebtedness above specified amounts, the making of capital expenditures in excess of specified amounts, and amendments to our articles of association and bye-laws. GCL’s bye-laws include significant additional corporate governance rights of ST Telemedia. These rights effectively dilute the rights of other shareholders. A sale by ST Telemedia of a significant portion of its shareholdings in us could trigger contractual provisions tied to a change in control of our company. For example, a change in control could result in the termination of significant contracts with U.K. government customers, the requirement that we offer to purchase the 12% Senior Secured Notes and GCUK Notes at a price equal to 101% of their outstanding principal amounts plus accrued and unpaid interest and the 5% Convertible Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes plus accrued and unpaid interest, and the acceleration of the vesting of stock options and other incentive compensation awards granted to our directors and employees. Other Risks We are exposed to legal proceedings and contingent liabilities, including those related to Impsat, that could result in material losses that we have not reserved against. We are a party to various legal proceedings described in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” and are subject to certain important contingent liabilities described more fully in Note 20, “Commitments, Contingencies and Other” to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K. If one or more of these legal proceedings or contingent liabilities were to be resolved in a manner adverse to us, we could suffer losses that are material to our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have not established reserves for many of these contingent liabilities and those for which reserves have been established could be adversely resolved at levels exceeding the reserved amounts. Certain of these contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in addition to the effect of any potential monetary judgment or sanction against us. Furthermore, any legal proceedings, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Assets and entities that we acquired from Impsat, or may acquire from future acquisitions, may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have no recourse, or only limited recourse to the entity from which the business was acquired (or its stakeholders). Our real estate restructuring reserve represents a material liability, the calculation of which involves significant estimation. As of December 31, 2009, our real estate restructuring reserve related to 2003 and prior restructuring plans aggregated $94 million of continuing building lease obligations and broker commissions, offset by anticipated receipts of $34 million from existing subleases and $47 million from subleases projected to be entered into in the future. Although we believe these estimates to be reasonable, actual sublease receipts could turn out to be materially less than we have estimated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 37 Table of Contents 