Risk Factors—We may not be able to continue to connect our network to incumbent carriers’ networks or maintain Internet peering arrangements on favorable terms.” Below is a summary of the regulatory environment in the principal countries in which we operate, grouped by region. Our GCUK Segment and GC Impsat Segment are subject to the regulatory regimes in the U.K. and Latin America, respectively. The ROW Segment is subject to regulation primarily in North America, mainland Europe and Asia. In addition, the ROW Segment is subject to regulation in the U.K. and Latin America to the extent of its limited operations in those jurisdictions. North American Regulation Regulation in the U.S. In the U.S., our facilities and services are subject to regulation at both the federal and state level. The Communications Act of 1934, as amended, is the primary legislation governing our provision of interstate and international services. State communications and/or public utility statutes govern our intrastate operations. U.S. Federal Regulation The FCC exercises jurisdiction over our interstate and international services and, to some extent, the construction and operation of our facilities. We have authority from the FCC for the installation, acquisition and operation of our U.S. network and for the provision of international facilities-based services. Regulation of the Cost of Access The FCC and the states regulate the rates that incumbent local exchange carriers (“ILECs”) and CLECs (together with ILECs, “LECs”) charge us for access to local exchanges. The cost to access local exchanges is our 13 Table of Contents single largest expense and can have a significant impact on our operations, margins and profitability. Regulation of the cost of access also applies to us in those states where we operate as a CLEC. Access charges that LECs impose upon us consist of both usage-sensitive switched access charges and flat-rated transport and special access charges. With respect to their access services, the FCC regulates ILECs as dominant carriers. We also may enter into carrier-to-carrier contracts with other, principally long-distance, carriers to transport and terminate our traffic. These latter arrangements are typically not subject to tariff regulation. There is a significant amount of litigation related to the cost of access across the industry. The complex regulatory structure governing the cost of access in place at both the federal and state levels and the difficulty of having such regulations keep pace with technological and service advancements create a high level of uncertainty and a fertile ground for rate arbitrage. This results in a high rate of billing disputes involving large sums of money between carriers that often times only get resolved through litigation. The cost of bill reconciliation, dispute resolution, and litigation is increasing for the industry as a whole (including us). ILEC Switched Access Charges The LECs assess usage-sensitive switched access charges for the use of their switched facilities to originate and terminate switched traffic. In 2000, the FCC established a regime to govern the provision of switched access services by the ILECs over a five-year period (the “CALLS Plan”). Under the CALLS Plan, usage-sensitive rates were decreased over time in favor of increases in end-user charges and a transitional preferred interexchange carrier charge. The LECs’ preferred interexchange carrier charges have decreased over time and most of the largest ILECs have ceased assessing this charge, although smaller ILECs and some CLECs continue to assess it. The CALLS Plan expired in 2005 and the FCC is considering proposals to govern access charges prospectively (see “—Intercarrier Compensation Reform” below). ILEC Special Access Charges Special access services refer to dedicated transport circuits that telecommunications carriers use to connect two points. We utilize special access services to connect our PoPs to customer locations, enabling the delivery of services. The price of special access impacts our operations and cost of service. The FCC currently regulates ILEC flat-rate transport and special access charges under the terms of its Special Access Pricing Flexibility Order, adopted in 1999. Under the Special Access Pricing Flexibility Order, ILECs are afforded two different levels of pricing flexibility depending upon the extent of deployment of alternative facilities within particular Metropolitan Statistical Areas (“MSAs”). The ILECs have been granted Type I (or the more limited form of pricing flexibility) in most MSAs in the country and have been granted Type II pricing flexibility in a lesser number of MSAs. Prior to the 2006 FCC-approved merger of AT&T and BellSouth, AT&T petitioned the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit to compel the FCC to consider a proposal to tighten its regulation of ILEC special access services. Although the Court declined to grant the petition, in January 2005 the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to consider how it should regulate ILEC special access services prospectively and whether it should tighten its regulation of special access services. The FCC could elect to take no action and leave the status quo intact or the FCC could elect to modify regulations governing special access. Should the FCC modify regulations governing special access, it could materially impact our operations and cost of service. This proceeding is still ongoing and we cannot predict its outcome. CLEC Access Charges CLECs currently serve between ten to twenty percent of access lines nationwide and generally have a larger presence in the enterprise market than the consumer market. Unlike the ILECs, the FCC regulates the CLECs as non-dominant carriers. The FCC permits a CLEC to file tariffs for its interstate access services so long as the CLEC’s rates do not exceed the rates of the ILEC that provides service in the territory that the CLEC services. However, a CLEC may charge the full benchmark rate even where it only provides a portion of the access service 14 Table of Contents involved, i.e., in the case of jointly-provided access services. The FCC also permits CLECs to aggregate the traffic of other carriers, e.g., toll-free calls originating from wireless subscribers, although, in this circumstance, the CLEC is only permitted to charge for those portions of the access service it actually provides. See also “—Intercarrier Compensation Reform” below. Wireless Access Charges The FCC has adopted a mandatory detariffing regime for access services that wireless carriers wish to provide. Wireless carriers may not file tariffs for their putative access services and must, instead, enter into voluntary contracts in order to assess access charges upon potential access customers. As the volume of wireless traffic increases, the potential for wireless access charges poses a risk to our cost structure. See also “—Intercarrier Compensation Reform” below. Regulation of VoIP Traffic VoIP services are a form of communications services that utilize the IP standard instead of the legacy TDM technology. We provide VoIP services on both a wholesale and retail basis while also maintaining legacy TDM services. The FCC has addressed the subject of the jurisdictional nature of access charges and certain duties applicable to VoIP traffic in response to a number of petitions for declaratory ruling (or comparable petitions). The FCC has also issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comment on how it should regulate VoIP traffic prospectively. In June 2005, the FCC concluded that VoIP service providers must support enhanced 911 emergency services or cease marketing VoIP services in areas where they cannot be supported. In September 2005, the FCC also concluded that VoIP service providers must comply with the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act and configure their network and services to support law enforcement activity in the area of wiretaps and call records. The FCC ruling applies to all VoIP services that can both receive calls from and terminate calls to the PSTN. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upheld the FCC’s actions in both cases. In June 2006, the FCC issued an order holding that interconnected VoIP providers must contribute to the federal universal service fund. The FCC has also recently held that its customer proprietary network information rules apply to VoIP carriers. In addition, the FCC has now extended to VoIP providers obligations to provide local number portability, make their services accessible to persons with disabilities, and report certain data relating to broadband. All of these actions have increased the cost to provide VoIP services and subjected VoIP providers (including us) to additional regulations and reporting requirements. Local Reciprocal Compensation Local telephone companies that originate traffic that is terminated on the networks of other local carriers typically compensate the other local carriers for terminating that traffic. The FCC has established the general framework governing the level of such compensation, although the specific rates are established by the states. These rates vary from “bill-and-keep” to rates that approximate those for switched access. Because the rates for local reciprocal compensation can be significantly lower than rates for switched access, there is a high volume of billing disputes and litigation throughout the industry. We have been (and continue to be) involved in a number of disputes with LECs regarding the jurisdictional nature of access traffic. As is the case with access charges, the local reciprocal compensation rates are being examined in the FCC’s Intercarrier Compensation proceeding (see “—Intercarrier Compensation Reform” below). Intrastate Access Charges Intrastate access charges that LECs assess upon us (or that our CLECs are permitted to charge) are regulated by the states. Although certain LECs have elected to have intrastate access rates mirror interstate access rates, intrastate access rates are typically higher (often, significantly so) than interstate access rates. Intrastate access 15 Table of Contents charges are also being examined in the FCC’s Intercarrier Compensation proceeding. Because the rates for intrastate access charges can be significantly higher than rates for interstate switched access, there is a high volume of billing disputes and litigation throughout the industry. We have been (and continue to be) involved in a number of disputes with LECs regarding the jurisdictional nature of access traffic. Intercarrier Compensation Reform As described above, the current regime governing intercarrier compensation consists of a patchwork of different and inconsistent regulation depending upon such factors as the provider, jurisdiction and nature of traffic. This has led to a significant amount of disputes and litigation throughout the industry. To address this inconsistent pattern of regulation, in 2001 the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to consider how to unify the regulation of intercarrier compensation. The FCC received numerous comments on the subject. Since then, the FCC has solicited additional comments from the industry on at least three occasions and is now considering the issue in the broader context of a “broadband plan.” On February 8, 2011, the FCC issued another Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking additional comment on a host of issues related to inter-carrier compensation. It is not clear when the FCC will take final action on this issue. Should the FCC make changes to the status quo that result in a unification of intercarrier compensation rates, it could reduce bill reconciliation, dispute and litigation costs for the industry, including us. Should the FCC alter the rates associated with the various forms of intercarrier compensation, it could materially impact our cost of providing service. Universal Service Both the FCC and approximately 23 states administer “universal service” funds to provide for affordable local telephone service in rural and high-cost areas and to fund other social programs, such as Internet access to schools and libraries. In 2010, we expensed approximately $62 million related to payments to such funds. There are numerous regulatory and legislative efforts to reform universal service funding requirements and we cannot predict the outcome of these efforts. On April 9, 2008, the FCC released a Notice of Apparent Liability for Forfeiture finding that subsidiaries of Global Crossing North America, Inc. apparently violated the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and the FCC’s rules, by willfully and repeatedly failing to contribute fully and timely to the federal Universal Service Fund and the Telecommunications Relay Service Fund. The FCC alleged that, since emergence from bankruptcy, we have had a history of making our contributions to the funds late or, in certain months, making only partial contributions or not making any contributions. In June 2009, we agreed to a settlement of both this and another matter in a consent decree with the FCC that requires a total payment of approximately $3 million (in two equal installments, one of which was paid in July 2009 and the other of which was paid in January 2010) and adherence to a compliance plan for a period of three years. On February 8, 2011, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking proposing long-term changes to the manner in which universal service funds are used. The FCC did not address how carriers are assessed to support the universal service fund. Local Competition The 1996 Act substantially revised the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, in large part to address the subject of local competition. The 1996 Act delegated to the FCC and to the states significant discretion to implement the local competition provisions of the statute and imposed interconnection obligations on LECs, including that they provide unbundled network elements. The regime governing the framework for local competition has changed since the 1996 Act was enacted. The FCC’s February 2003 Triennial Review Order, which revised the unbundling rules, was vacated and remanded in part by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in March 2004. In response, in December 2004 the FCC adopted its Triennial Review Remand Order which significantly restricts the types of facilities that ILECs must unbundle and provide to their local competitors and the circumstances under which those facilities must be unbundled and provided. The prices of the local facilities that we obtain from ILECs will increase as resale or commercial arrangements 16 Table of Contents are substituted for the unbundled network element—platform services that ILECs no longer need to make available to competitors and as special access is substituted for the local loop and transport elements that are no longer subject to mandatory unbundling. On June 16, 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upheld the Triennial Review Remand Order. We cannot predict the outcome of any subsequent FCC proceedings. Net Neutrality In December 2010, the FCC adopted rules governing the provision of consumer broadband Internet access services. The rules (1) require providers of consumer broadband Internet access to publicly disclose accurate information regarding the network management practices, performance, and commercial terms of its broadband Internet access services; (2) prevent providers of consumer broadband Internet access from blocking lawful content, applications, services, or non-harmful devices, subject to reasonable network management; and (3) prevent providers of consumer broadband Internet access services from unreasonably discriminating in the transmission of lawful network traffic over a consumer’s broadband Internet access service. The FCC allowed wireless carriers greater discretion in the management of their networks and is continuing to investigate the extent to which all carriers should be permitted to provide so-called “specialized services” outside of the net neutrality rules. While the rules are directed at consumer broadband Internet access services, it is too early to conclude that they will have no effect on the provision of enterprise or carrier Internet access services and there is no way to predict the effect of the rules on the broader Internet ecosystem. In January 2011, the FCC’s net neutrality rules were challenged in U.S. federal district court on the grounds that they exceeded the FCC’s authority to act. We cannot predict the outcome of the court appeals. U.S. State Regulation State regulatory commissions retain jurisdiction over our facilities and services to the extent they are used to provide intrastate communications. We are subject to direct state regulation in most, if not all, states in which we operate. Many states require certification before a company can provide intrastate communications services. We are certified in all states where we have operations and certification is required. Most states require us to file tariffs or price lists setting forth the terms, conditions and prices for services that are classified as intrastate. In some states, our tariff can list a range of prices for particular services. In other states, prices can be set on an individual customer basis. Several states where we do business, however, do not require us to file tariffs. We are not subject to price cap or to rate of return regulation in any state in which we currently provide service. U.S. Local Government Regulation In certain locations, we must obtain local franchises, licenses or other operating rights and street opening and construction permits to install, expand and operate our fiber-optic systems in the public right-of-way. In some of the areas where we provide network services, our subsidiaries pay license or franchise fees based on a percentage of gross revenues or on a per linear foot basis. Regulation in Canada Long distance telecommunications services in Canada are regulated by the Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission (the “CRTC”). Resellers now have interconnection rights and may provide international services to the U.S. by reselling the services provided by the regional telephone companies and by the former monopoly international carrier, Teleglobe Canada. Under current law, the provision of Canadian domestic and international transmission facilities based services remains restricted to carriers majority owned by 17 Table of Contents Canadians, although non-Canadian carriers such as ourselves may own international subsea cables landing in Canada. Competition is permitted in other segments of the Canadian telecommunications market, including the local telecommunications services market, although transmission facilities based CLECs are also subject to the above-described majority Canadian ownership requirements. CLECs may interconnect their networks with those of the ILECs and have access to certain ILEC services on an unbundled basis and, in certain cases, subject to mandatory pricing. In addition, transmission facilities based carriers (but not resellers) are entitled to collocate equipment in ILEC central offices pursuant to terms and conditions of tariffs and intercarrier agreements. The CRTC recently adopted a new policy to deregulate wholesale services over the next five years. It is unclear at this time what, if any, impact this will have on our operations. Regulation in Mexico Mexico maintains foreign ownership restrictions and, as a result, we operate in Mexico pursuant to a joint venture arrangement. Any changes to the foreign ownership rules may impact our joint venture arrangement and potentially the manner in which we operate in Mexico. The Mexican telecommunications industry is primarily regulated by the Ministry of Communications and Transportation (“SCT”) and the Federal Telecommunications Commission, an agency within the SCT. Several laws and regulations govern the provision of telecommunications services in Mexico, including the Law of General Means of Communication, the Federal Telecommunications Law (and its 2006 amendment), and the Telecommunications Regulations. Market liberalization began in Mexico with the 1990 privatization of the incumbent telecommunications operator, now known as Telmex. The Mexican market for fixed line domestic and international long distance services opened to competition beginning in 1996, although Telmex remains the leading provider of fixed local and long distance telephone services in Mexico. On January 23, 2008, the Federal Competition Commission initiated an investigation to examine the existence of market power in four segments of the telecommunications market dominated by Telmex. Under the Federal Telecommunications Law and the Telecommunications Regulations, a provider of public telecommunications services must operate under a concession granted by the SCT, and the provision of certain other services likewise requires the issuance of a permit or other approval by the SCT. Our operating entity in Mexico has obtained concessions, permits and authorizations from the Mexican authorities to support its services. European Regulation In connection with the construction and operation of our European network, we obtained telecommunications licenses in all countries where authorization was required for us to construct and operate facilities or provide network services, including voice telephony. Our activities in Europe are subject to regulation by the European Union (“EU”) and national regulatory authorities. The level of regulation and the regulatory obligations and rights that attach to us as an authorized operator in each country vary. In all Member States of the EU, we, as a competitive entrant, are currently considered to lack significant market power in the provision of bandwidth and call origination services, and consequently we are generally subjected to less intrusive regulation than providers that are deemed to possess such power, who are generally incumbents in the countries concerned. In April 2002, the then 15 EU Member States agreed to introduce a harmonized set of telecommunications regulations by July 25, 2003, in accordance with a framework as set out in Directive 2002/21/EC and a package of related Directives. Under the Framework Directive (2002/21/EC), the EU has adopted a revised policy for dealing with the definition and regulation of significant market power. Regulatory remedies are being introduced in due course 18 Table of Contents following a series of national reviews of telecommunications markets defined in accordance with Article 7 of the Framework Directive and Recommendations 2007/879/EC and C(2008)5925. Where a national regulator identifies market dominance that is considered susceptible to ex ante remedies then it is required to impose conditions on the dominant party/ies in order to ensure fair competition. At this time, a number of markets have been reviewed by regulators and ex ante conditions imposed which, in general, facilitate market entry and/or reduce the cost of access to incumbents’ networks. We anticipate that this process will continue during 2011. The Data Protection Directive (2002/58/EC) sets out the rights of consumers to privacy and establishes requirements for providers of communication services in relation to security and confidentiality of communications and the processing of traffic data. Also included in the package of Directives are measures under the Authorisation Directive (2002/20/EC) (the “Authorisation Directive”) to remove the necessity for telecommunications network operators and service providers to obtain individual licenses and/or authorizations, save for use of scarce resources such as numbering addresses and radio spectrum. In those countries where the national telecommunications laws have been amended in accordance with the obligations under the Authorisation Directive, our licenses have been revoked in favor of a series of statutory rights to own, build and operate networks and to provide services, including telephony. The size of the EU increased on May 1, 2004 with the accession of ten additional countries and on January 1, 2007 with the accession of a further two countries. In principle, the EU Regulatory Framework and the package of related Directives apply in such countries with effect from their accession date. Accession negotiations between the EU and several additional candidate countries are presently understood to be underway, signaling a possible further enlargement of the EU at some time in the future. In June 2006, the Commission published new guidelines concerning the way in which Articles 81 and 82 of the EU Treaty (dealing with the anti-trust concept of abuse of dominance) should be interpreted by regulators. On November 4, 2009, following two years of consideration from initial publication by the European Commission of a set of proposed reforms, the European Parliament and Council of Ministers agreed to implement a number of changes to the existing regime, comprising the “Better Regulation” Directive (Directive 2009/140/EC) and the “Citizens’ Rights” Directive (Directive 2009/136/EC), which are intended to improve the existing regulatory framework, and ensure that the needs of users are more clearly defined and to remove potential ambiguity within the existing framework in a number of areas such as the processing of personal data. The legislation which transposes the two Directives above into national law must be passed by May 26, 2011. In November 2009, the EU also implemented one regulation establishing the Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications (Regulation (EC) No 1211/2009). BEREC’s remit is to improve harmonization between national regulatory measures so as to ensure greater consistency of remedies and to anticipate emerging regulatory requirements. BEREC has published its workplan for 2011 which includes notable initiatives such as tackling administrative and other barriers to the provision of cross border services to business customers and fostering a competitive environment regarding next generation access networks. In the U.K., a Government announcement on December 6, 2010 indicated adoption of a policy objective to ensure that every community in the country will have access to ‘superfast broadband’ by 2015 which, it is acknowledged, will require significant new investment in infrastructure projects. The Office of Communications (“OFCOM”) has indicated that its regulatory policy focus is intended to support the growth of greater competition, innovation and investment certainty and in its Annual Plan for 2011 has set out the priority areas aimed at supporting the Government’s 2015 vision. The effect on us of such action cannot be accurately predicted. Asian Regulation The status of liberalization of the telecommunications regulatory regimes of the Asian countries in which we operate or intend to operate varies. Some countries allow full competition in the telecommunications sector, 19 Table of Contents while others limit competition for most services. Similarly, some countries in Asia maintain foreign ownership restrictions which limit the amount of foreign direct investment and require foreign companies to seek local joint venture partners. Most of the countries in the region have committed to liberalizing their telecommunications regimes and opening their telecommunications markets to foreign investment as part of the World Trade Organization Agreement on Basic Telecommunications Services, which came into force in February 1998. Additionally, the adoption of the Free Trade Agreement between the U.S. and Singapore in January 2003 established a new standard of liberalization based on bilateral negotiations with the U.S. We cannot predict what effect, if any, this agreement will have on other countries in the region or whether the U.S. will pursue similar agreements with those countries. We also cannot be certain whether this liberalizing trend will continue or accurately predict the pace and scope of liberalization. It is possible that one or more of the countries in which we operate or intend to operate will slow or halt the liberalization of its telecommunications markets. The effect on us of such an action cannot be accurately predicted. The telecommunications regulatory regimes of many Asian countries are in the process of development. Many issues, such as regulation of incumbent providers, interconnection, unbundling of local loops, resale of telecommunications services, offering of voice services and pricing have not been addressed fully or at all. We cannot accurately predict whether or how these issues will be resolved and their impact on our operations in Asia. Below is a summary of certain of the regulations currently applicable to our Asian operations, by country. Australia Australia signed on to the WTO Basic Telecommunications Agreement in 1997 and adopted the Telecommunications Act of 1997. Australia permits unrestricted competition in all basic telecommunications services. There are no restrictions on foreign investment in telecommunications outside of some limits on foreign ownership of the incumbent fixed line operator. Industry self-regulation is encouraged in all areas, including access, technical standards, interconnection standards, and consumer and customer service standards. Government regulators have powers to intervene if industry self-regulation is not working effectively in specific instances. The Australian Communications and Media Authority (“ACMA”) is the regulatory of the Australian telecommunications industry, responsible for the regulation of broadcasting, the Internet, radio communications and telecommunications consumer and technical matters. The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (“ACCC”) regulates competition in the telecommunications industry. Australia does not impose specific interconnection rules, but instead has established a process by which parties can negotiate mutually acceptable terms subject to the oversight of the ACCC. Much of Australia’s industry-specific rules are handled primarily by industry under the oversight of the ACCC and other government agencies. Hong Kong Hong Kong is a signatory to the WTO Basic Telecommunications Agreement. There are no restrictions on foreign ownership. Hong Kong’s telecoms regulator, the Telecommunications Authority (“TA”), with the support of its executive arm, the Office of the Telecommunications Authority (“OFTA”), has played an important role in facilitating the government’s liberalization program. The TA has demonstrated a preference for market-driven, technologically neutral solutions to industry issues, and its approach in the execution of its functions can generally be characterized as light-handed. The main duties of OFTA cover economic and technical regulation of telecommunications services, enforcement of fair competition in the telecommunications sector and management of radio frequency spectrum. 20 Table of Contents Japan Japan committed to the WTO Basic Telecommunications Agreement in 1997, subject to the foreign ownership restrictions applicable to Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation (“NTT”). As a general rule, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications (“MIC”) is the competent authority on policymaking and policy development procedures for the telecoms and information sectors. Following deregulation in the 1990s, the only Japanese telecom operator subject to foreign ownership restrictions (no more than 33.3 per cent) imposed by law is NTT. Interconnection is strictly regulated in Japan and operators of essential facilities are required to have a standard form agreement for interconnection. Disputes between carriers are resolved by a dispute resolution panel established by the MIC. Singapore Singapore is a signatory to the WTO Basic Telecommunications Agreement. In 2000, the telecommunications industry was fully liberalized and Singapore does not maintain any foreign ownership restrictions. The Info-Communications Development Authority (“IDA”) is the main telecommunications regulator in Singapore and views its role as supporting economic development in the area of information, technology, and communications. The IDA has established a mature interconnection and unbundling regime. Latin American Regulation The status of liberalization of the telecommunications markets of Latin America varies. All of the countries in which we currently operate are members of the World Trade Organization and most have committed to liberalizing their telecommunications markets and lifting foreign ownership restrictions. Some countries now permit competition for all telecommunications facilities and services, while others allow competition for some facilities and services, but restrict competition for other services. Some countries in which we operate currently impose limits on foreign ownership of telecommunications carriers. The telecommunications regulatory regimes of many Latin American countries are in the process of development. Many issues, such as regulation of incumbent providers, interconnection, unbundling of local loops, resale of telecommunications services, and pricing have not been addressed fully or at all. We cannot accurately predict whether or how these issues will be resolved and their impact on our operations in Latin America. Below is a summary of certain of the regulations currently applicable to our Latin American operations, by country. The regulations apply equally to all of our operating entities within the region. Argentina The Argentine telecommunications sector is subject to comprehensive regulation by the Comisión Nacional de Comunicaciones (“National Communications Commission”) and the Secretaría de Comunicaciones (“Secretary of Communications”). The Argentine telecommunications market was opened to competition on November 9, 2000. Following market liberalization, the government has issued a series of regulations to effectuate the transition to competition in telecommunications, including Decree No. 764/00, which establishes rules for the granting of licenses for telecommunications services, interconnection, and the management and control of the radioelectric spectrum. The Decree also established new rules and regulations to promote access to telecommunications services for customers located in high-cost access or maintenance areas or with physical limitations or special social needs. These rules and regulations, effective January 1, 2001, establish that the provision of these services 21 Table of Contents be financed by all telecommunications providers (including us) through a Universal Service Fund, backed by the payment of 1% of each provider’s total revenues for telecommunications services. During the last 5 years, telecommunications companies in Argentina have been subject to increased taxes and fees from both provincial and municipal authorities. While we have challenged the constitutionality of some of these claims, there is no certainty that we will prevail on such challenges. Furthermore, the cost of defending against these claims could be high. Brazil Telecommunications services in Brazil are regulated by the Ministry of Communications, pursuant to Law No. 9,472 of July 16, 1997 (the “General Telecommunications Law”). This law authorized the creation of the Agencia Nacional de Telecomunicações (the “National Telecommunications Agency,” known as “ANATEL”), an independent agency subordinated to the Ministry of Communications that regulates and supervises all aspects of telecommunications services, including the granting of licenses under the General Telecommunications Law. ANATEL enforces the legislative determinations of the Ministry of Communications. ANATEL has generally pursued a policy of market liberalization and supported a competitive telecommunications environment. Chile The telecommunications industry in Chile is regulated by the Undersecretariate of Telecommunications, an institution subordinated to the Ministry of Transportation and Telecommunications. In 1978, a new National Policy on Telecommunications was issued which, in its most relevant aspects, called for the development of telecommunications services to be conducted by private institutions through concessions, authorizations, permits and licenses granted by the government. The policy, nonetheless, endorsed a series of regulations aimed at establishing increased technical control over such investments and conferring certain discretionary powers on the government. The policy was formalized through the General Law on Telecommunications approved in 1982, in which free, non-discriminatory access was granted to private firms in the development of the nation’s telecommunications services. This law established responsibilities with respect to telecommunication services, compulsory interconnection between public service licensees and tools for setting telecommunication service tariffs where existing market conditions were deemed insufficient to guarantee a free tariff system. Chile amended its General Law on Telecommunications in 1985 to provide that concessions and permits may be granted without limit with respect to the quantity and type of service and geographic location. The law guarantees interconnections among telecommunications service concessionaires. Chile defines value added services as supplementary services. It is not necessary to have a telecommunications service license to offer supplementary services, although those who provide additional services must comply with the technical standards established by the Department of Telecommunications and obtain an authorization. Colombia The telecommunications industry in Colombia is subject to regulation by the Colombian Ministry of Communications. Since 1991, the Ministry of Communications has pursued a policy of liberalization and has encouraged joint ventures between public and private telecommunications companies to provide new and improved telecommunications services. In 2009, the Colombian government adopted a new regulatory regime that should further the liberalization of the telecommunications market. Ecuador The telecommunications industry in Ecuador is regulated by the Consejo Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (the “National Telecommunications Council”) and the Secretaria Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (the “National 22 Table of Contents Telecommunications Secretary,” known as “SENATEL”) and is under the control and supervision of the Superintendencia de Telecomunicaciones (“Superintendent of Telecommunications”). Panama The telecommunications industry in Panama is regulated by Ente Regulador de los Servicios Públicos, an independent regulatory body. General Law 26 and General Law 31 established the regulatory framework for telecommunications regulation. Liberalization of the market has been ongoing, and the incumbent’s official monopoly ended in 2004. Peru The telecommunications industry in Peru is regulated by the Supervisory Authority for Private Investment in Telecommunications (“OSIPTEL”) and the Ministry of Transportation and Communications (“MTC”). OSIPTEL is an independent regulatory body attached to the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers. Under Peruvian law, the provision of public telecommunications services requires a concession. The functions related to the issuance of concessions and market access registration and the assignment of the radio spectrum for public telecommunications services are managed by the MTC’s General Directorate of Telecommunications. Since market liberalization became effective in August 1998, there has been no limitation on the issuance of concessions, except for services subject to natural limitations on grounds of scarce resources, as in the case of the radio spectrum. Venezuela The Venezuelan telecommunications industry is regulated by the Comisión Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (“CONATEL of Venezuela”), which is ascribed to and under the purview of the Vice President of Venezuela. Venezuela opened its telecommunications market to competition on November 28, 2000. In 2007, the Venezuelan government nationalized the incumbent telecommunications operator, CANTV. In December 2010, the government issued a new law that establishes that the provision of telecommunications services is an activity of the “public domain.” To date, the government has not indicated its intent to expand nationalization within the telecommunications sector. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results (Cautionary Statements Under Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) Forward-Looking Statements This annual report on Form 10-K contains certain “forward-looking statements,” as such term is defined in Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These statements set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We have attempted to identify such statements by using words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will,” “could” and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future events or future operating or financial performance or strategies. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: • our services, including the development and deployment of data products and services as well as video transmission and Internet “cloud-based” services based on IP and other technologies and strategies to expand our targeted customer base and broaden our sales channels and the opening and expansion of our data center and collocation services; • the operation of our network, including with respect to the development of IP-based services, data center and collocation services and video transmission and Internet “cloud-based” services; • our liquidity and financial resources, including anticipated capital expenditures, funding of capital expenditures, anticipated levels of indebtedness, and the ability to refinance indebtedness and to raise capital through financing activities, including capital leases and similar financings; • trends related to, and management’s expectations regarding, results of operations, required capital expenditures, integration of acquired businesses, revenues from existing and new lines of business and sales channels, OIBDA (as defined in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”), Free Cash Flow (as defined in Item 7), gross margin, order volumes, expenses and cash flows, including but not limited to those statements set forth in Item 7; and • sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and the outcome of contingencies, such as regulatory, legal and tax proceedings and audits. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties related to our businesses. These are factors that we believe, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by Section 21E of the Exchange Act. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Our forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from current beliefs and expectations. In addition to the risk factors identified under the captions below, the operation and results of our business are subject to risks and uncertainties identified elsewhere in 24 Table of Contents this annual report on Form 10-K as well as general risks and uncertainties such as those relating to general economic conditions and demand for telecommunications services. Risks Related to Liquidity and Financial Resources We face a number of risks related to current global economic conditions and the tightening in the global credit markets. The global economy and capital and credit markets have experienced exceptional turmoil and upheaval in recent years. Ongoing concerns about volatile energy costs, volatile foreign currency markets, sovereign debt levels and associated default risk, austerity measures in certain European and other countries, geopolitical issues, the availability, cost and terms of credit, consumer and business confidence, substantially increased unemployment and adverse conditions in the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for both established and emerging economies, including those in which we operate. The availability, cost and terms of credit have also been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid markets and wider credit spreads. While there have been signs of stability during the second half of 2010, in the event of renewed financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, additional consolidation of the financial services industry, or significant financial service institution failures, there could be a new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets. Turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies and declines in business and consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers, including our ability to refinance maturing debt instruments and to access the capital markets and obtain capital lease and similar financing to meet liquidity needs. We have incurred substantial operating losses since inception and will continue to experience negative cash flows. For most periods since inception, we have incurred substantial operating losses. Although we expect our operating results to improve over time, there is no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated operating improvements will be realized on schedule or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. From time to time we review our operations and may consider opportunities to strategically enhance, expand or change our operations and leverage our capabilities. Initiatives that may result from such reviews may include, among others, plans to reduce our operating expenses and/or optimize existing operating resources, expansion of existing or entry into complementary lines of business, additional capital investment in our network and service infrastructure and opportunistic acquisitions. At any given time in connection with the foregoing we may be engaged in varying levels of analyses or negotiations with potential counterparties. If we pursue any such initiatives or transactions, we may require additional equity or debt financing to consummate those transactions, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms or at all. If we undertake such initiatives, it may place greater demands on our cash flows and liquidity due to increased capital and operating expenses and debt service. Our operating cash flows will be adversely impacted by incremental annualized interest expense resulting from the issuance of our 9% senior notes due 2019 and the associated refinancing in November 2010. We also anticipate lower sales of IRUs and prepaid services in 2011 than those realized in 2010. However, improvements in underlying operating results are expected to largely offset these factors such that we currently expect cash provided by operating activities (including IRUs and other prepaid sales) to exceed purchases of property and equipment for the full year 2011. This expectation is based in part on raising financing for such property and equipment from vendors and others in amounts similar to those arranged in 2010. Our ability to arrange such financings is subject to negotiating acceptable terms from equipment vendors and financing parties. If we are unable to arrange such financings, we may not be able to make all necessary capital and other expenditures to run and grow our business, including the expenditures that will be necessary to implement our operational imperatives. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 25 Table of Contents Our ability to generate positive cash flow over the long term is predicated on significant revenue growth in our higher margin enterprise, carrier data and indirect sales channel businesses, including the economies of scale expected from such growth, and from ongoing cost management initiatives, including initiatives to optimize the access network and effectively lower unit costs. We can provide no assurances that we will be successful in these regards. If our cash flows do not improve, we would need to arrange financing facilities in order to continue as a going concern. We may be unable to arrange financing facilities on acceptable terms or at all. Adverse conditions in global capital and credit markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Our substantial indebtedness may have adverse consequences for our business. As of December 31, 2010, we had consolidated indebtedness of $1.46 billion. We are required to use a significant portion of our cash flows to make principal and interest payments on this debt. These cash flows are therefore not available for operations or to fund potential investments. Moreover, our substantial debt may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing for investments and working capital. In addition, many of our competitors have lower relative levels of indebtedness, which places us at a competitive disadvantage. We may not be able to repay our existing indebtedness with cash flows from operations. With regard to our major debt instruments, (i) the remaining $429 million outstanding principal amount of GCUK’s senior secured notes (the “GCUK Notes” or “GCUK Senior Secured Notes”) matures in 2014; (ii) the $750 million original principal amount of GCL’s 12% senior secured notes (the “12% Senior Secured Notes”) matures in 2015; and (iii) the $150 million original principal amount of GCL’s 9% senior notes (the “9% Senior Notes”) matures in 2019. We do not expect to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to repay all of these debt instruments at maturity. Therefore, we are dependent on access to the capital markets to meet our liquidity requirements. Such access will depend on market conditions and our credit profile at the relevant time(s). We cannot be certain of our ability to refinance our debt or raise additional capital on acceptable terms or at all. We may not be able to achieve anticipated economies of scale. We expect that economies of scale will allow us to increase revenues while incurring incremental costs that are proportionately lower than those applicable to our existing business. If the increased costs required to support our revenue growth turn out to be greater than anticipated, we may be unable to improve our profitability and/or cash flows even if revenue growth goals are achieved. In addition, improvements in our cost structure in the short term become more difficult as the amount of potential savings decreases due to the success of past savings initiatives. The sale of IRUs and similar prepayments for services continue to be an important source of cash flows for us, representing tens of millions of dollars of cash in most quarters. The larger dollar amounts and long sales cycles typically associated with IRU sales increase the volatility of our quarter-to-quarter cash flow results. In addition, if customer buying patterns were to change such that those traditionally buying long-term IRUs with significant upfront payments were to switch to payment over time lease structures or were to forego or significantly curtail such purchases, our liquidity would be adversely affected. Access vendors could force us to accelerate or increase payments to them, which would adversely impact our working capital and liquidity. Cost of access represents our single largest expense and gives rise to material current liabilities. We actively manage our working capital through careful attention to our receivables and payables. In the past, certain telecommunications carriers from which we purchase access services demanded that we pay for access services on a more timely basis, which resulted in increased demands on our liquidity. If such demands were to continue 26 Table of Contents to a greater degree than anticipated, our liquidity requirements would be adversely affected. Similarly, if our access vendors were to increase significantly the amount they charge to us due (for example) to a more permissive regulatory environment, such increases would adversely affect our cash flows. The covenants in our major debt instruments limit our financial and operational flexibility. We and numerous of our subsidiaries have material indebtedness outstanding under the 12% Senior Secured Notes, the 9% Senior Notes and the GCUK Senior Secured Notes (collectively, the “Principal Debt Instruments”). The Principal Debt Instruments generally contain covenants and events of default that are customary for high-yield debt facilities, including limitations, on: • incurring or guaranteeing additional indebtedness and issuing preferred stock; • dividend and other payments to holders of equity and subordinated debt; • investments or other restricted payments; • asset sales, consolidations, and mergers; • creating or assuming liens; and • transactions with affiliates. These covenants impose significant restrictions on the ability of entities in our ROW and GC Impsat segments to make intercompany funds transfers to entities in our GCUK segment and vice versa. In addition, the covenants in the 12% Senior Secured Notes and 9% Senior Notes indentures impose certain limitations on the ability of entities in our ROW and GC Impsat segments to make intercompany funds transfers to other entities in those segments that have not granted liens on their assets to secure the 12% Senior Secured Notes and/or that have not provided guarantees of the 12% Senior Secured Notes and the 9% Senior Notes. Additionally, the certificate of designations governing our 2% Cumulative Preferred Shares (the “GCL Preferred Stock”) requires the holder’s approval for certain major corporate actions of us and/or our subsidiaries. See Item 5, “Market for Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters—Description of Global Crossing Equity Securities.” Finally, many of our assets are leased by us under capital lease facilities (the “Capital Lease Facilities”) that contain non-financial covenants which require specific tracking and reporting procedures for the physical location of the leased assets. The failure to meet these covenants allows the lessor to accelerate payments under the lease. A failure to comply with the restrictions or covenants contained in our Principal Debt Instruments or certain Capital Lease Facilities could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in an acceleration of all such debts, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If the indebtedness under any of our Principal Debt Instruments or material Capital Lease Facilities were to be accelerated, we would have to raise funds from alternative sources, which may not be available on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. Moreover, an uncured default by the obligors under our Principal Debt Instruments or certain of our Capital Lease Facilities could trigger cross-default provisions under other such instruments or facilities. For a further discussion of these issues and our indebtedness, please see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Indebtedness.” 27 Table of Contents Our international corporate structure limits the availability of our consolidated cash resources for intercompany funding purposes and reduces our financial flexibility. As a holding company, all of our revenues are generated by our subsidiaries and substantially all of our assets are owned by our subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent upon dividends and intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other payment obligations. Our subsidiaries are incorporated and operate in various jurisdictions throughout the world. Some of our subsidiaries have cash on hand that exceeds their immediate requirements but that cannot be distributed or loaned to us or our other subsidiaries to fund our or their operations due to contractual restrictions (such as those described in the immediately preceding risk factor) or legal constraints related to the lack of retained earnings, the solvency of such entities or other local law restrictions (e.g., restrictions related to foreign exchange controls or transfer approvals). These restrictions, which apply to most of our subsidiaries given their history of operating losses, could cause us or certain of our subsidiaries to become and remain illiquid while other subsidiaries have sufficient liquidity to meet their liquidity needs. Also see “—We are exposed to significant currency transfer restrictions and currency exchange rate risks and our net loss may suffer due to currency translations,” below, for a discussion of important exchange rate and expatriation risks involving our Venezuelan and other subsidiaries. We cannot predict our future tax liabilities. If we become subject to increased levels of taxation or if tax contingencies are resolved adversely, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Due to the international nature of our operations, we are subject to multiple sets of complex and varying tax laws and rules. We cannot predict the amount of future tax liabilities to which we may become subject. Any increase in the amount of taxation incurred as a result of our operations or due to legislative or regulatory changes could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we believe that our current tax provisions are reasonable and appropriate, we cannot be assured that these items will be settled for the amounts accrued or that additional exposures will not be identified in the future. We have material tax-related contingent liabilities that are difficult to predict or quantify. See Note 13, “Income Tax,” and Note 19, “Commitments, Contingencies and Other,” to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K. The Ministry of Finance in Bermuda has granted a tax assurance to GCL and its Bermuda incorporated subsidiaries under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act, 1966, which expires in 2016. GCL and its Bermuda incorporated subsidiaries have received an assurance from the Ministry of Finance granting an exemption, until March 28, 2016, from the imposition of tax under any applicable Bermuda law computed on profits or income or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate, duty or inheritance tax, provided that such an exemption shall not prevent the application of any such tax or duty to such persons as are ordinarily resident in Bermuda and shall not prevent the application of any tax payable in accordance with the provisions of the Land Tax Act, 1967 or otherwise payable in relation to land in Bermuda leased to GCL or its Bermuda incorporated subsidiaries. The Ministry of Finance has indicated that the Ministry will extend the term of the assurance beyond 2016. However, we can give no assurance as to the length of any extension. We may become subject to unanticipated tax liabilities that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We and certain of our subsidiaries are Bermuda-based companies, and we believe that a significant portion of our income will not be subject to tax in Bermuda, which currently has no corporate income tax, or in other countries in which we conduct activities or in which our customers are located, including the United States and the United Kingdom. This belief is based on our current position under the tax laws of the countries in which we have assets or conduct activities. This position is subject to review and possible challenge by taxing authorities and to possible changes in law that may have a retroactive effect. In addition, tax legislation and regulations are proposed from time to time in various jurisdictions, which, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on 28 Table of Contents our results of operations. For example, in December 2006, the U.S. Department of the Treasury finalized regulations with respect to the source of international and other types of communications income. The regulations as adopted could, under certain circumstances, subject us to U.S. withholding tax on a significant portion of our income, possibly even if we are not found to have engaged in a trade or business within the United States or to have had an office or other fixed place of business in the United States. Our pension plans may require additional funding and negatively impact our cash flows. Certain North American and European hourly and salaried employees are covered by our defined benefit pension plans. On December 31, 1996, our North American plan was frozen and all employees hired thereafter are not eligible to participate in the plan. Our U.K. plans were closed to new employees on December 31, 1999. Our pension expense and required contributions to our pension plan are directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected rate of return on plan assets, the actual rate of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions we use to measure the defined benefit pension plan obligations. As of December 31, 2010, the projected benefit obligation under our pension plans was approximately $83 million ($15 million for U.S. plans and $68 million for U.K. plans) and the value of plan assets was approximately $83 million ($18 million for US plans and $65 million for U.K. plans). If plan assets perform below expectations, future pension expense and funding obligations will increase, which would have a negative impact on our cash flows from operations, decrease borrowing capacity and increase interest expense. Austerity measures announced by governments may negatively impact our revenue. Many countries, including the U.K. and various other members of the European Union have announced austerity measures aimed at reducing costs in a wide range of areas, including telecommunications. The implementation of pricing actions and the reduction of spending by governmental entities could have a negative effect on our future revenue performance, in particular, that of the GCUK Segment. Risks Related to Our Operations We are subject to several unpredictable factors that may adversely impact our results of operations. Our revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Some of the primary factors that may affect our results of operations include the following: • changes in pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • general economic conditions as well as those specific to our industry; • demand for our higher margin services; • costs of acquisitions, including the integration of such acquisitions; • changes in regulations and regulatory rulings or interpretations; • changes in tax law or policy; and • resolution of contingent liabilities. A delay in generating revenue or the timing of recognizing revenue and expenses could cause significant variations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Results in future quarters may be below analysts’ and investors’ expectations, as well as our own forecasts. Our rights to the use of the fiber that make up our network may be affected by the financial stability of our fiber providers. The majority of our North American network and some of the other transmission facilities comprising our global network are held by us through long-term leases or IRU agreements with various companies that provide 29 Table of Contents us access to fiber owned by them. The bankruptcy or financial collapse of one of these fiber providers could result in a loss of our rights under such leases and agreements with the provider, which in turn could have a negative impact on the integrity of our network and ultimately on our results of operations. To our knowledge, the rights of the holder of such rights in strands of fiber in the event of bankruptcy have not been specifically addressed by the judiciary at the state or federal level in the U.S. or in most of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and, therefore, our rights with respect to fiber agreements under such circumstances are unclear. In addition, the laws governing the ability of fiber providers to provide us access to their fibers pursuant to long-term leases and IRU agreements vary by jurisdiction and, in some cases, the term of such leases and agreements may be limited by law. Our providers, along with certain of our subsidiaries, also are parties to legal proceedings the outcome of which may affect our rights to use certain portions of our network. See Note 19, “Commitments, Contingencies and Other—Contingencies—Qwest Rights of Way Litigation,” to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.” We may not be able to continue to connect our network to incumbent carriers’ networks or maintain Internet peering arrangements on favorable terms. We must be party to interconnection agreements with incumbent and competitive carriers in order to connect our customers to the PSTN. If we are unable to renegotiate or maintain interconnection agreements in all of our markets on favorable terms, it could adversely affect our ability to provide services in the affected markets. Although certain rights to interconnect with other networks are subject to legal and regulatory protection, new IP-based networking technologies are becoming more generally adopted within the industry and new commercial and charging models are being developed for interworking between these networks. The extent to which such new models may affect our business is currently uncertain. Peering agreements with other Tier 1 Internet network operators allow us to access the Internet and exchange traffic on a settlement-free basis with these providers. We offer transit arrangements to non-Tier 1 Internet network operators that allow them to access the Internet through us for a charge. Recently, many network operators that previously offered peering have reduced or eliminated peering relationships or are establishing new, more restrictive criteria for peering and an increasing number of these network operators are seeking to impose charges for transit instead of settlement-free peering. Increases in costs associated with limitations on settlement-free peering could have a material adverse effect on our margins for our products that require Internet access. We may not be able to renegotiate or maintain peering arrangements on favorable terms, which would impair our growth and performance. The Network Security Agreement imposes significant requirements on us. A violation of the agreement could have severe consequences. The Network Security Agreement imposes significant requirements on us related to information storage and management; traffic routing and management; physical, logical, and network security arrangements; personnel screening and training; corporate governance practices; and other matters. While we expect to continue to comply fully with our obligations under the Network Security Agreement, it is impossible to eliminate completely the risk of a violation of the agreement. The consequences of a violation of the Network Security Agreement could be severe, potentially including the revocation of our FCC licenses in the U.S., which would result in the cessation of our U.S. operations and would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. It is expensive and difficult to switch new customers to our network, and lack of cooperation of incumbent carriers can slow the new customer connection process. It is expensive and difficult for us to switch a new customer to our network because we require cooperation from the incumbent carrier in instances where there is no direct connection between the customer and our network, which can complicate and add to the time and expense that it takes to provision a new customer’s service. 30 Table of Contents Many of our principal competitors, the domestic and international incumbent carriers, are already established providers of local telephone services to all or virtually all telephone subscribers within their respective service areas. Their physical connections from their premises to those of their customers are expensive and difficult to duplicate. To complete the new customer provisioning process, we rely on the incumbent carrier to process certain information. The incumbent carriers have a financial interest in retaining their customers, which could reduce their willingness to cooperate with our new customer provisioning requests, thereby adversely impacting our ability to compete and grow revenues. Further consolidation of incumbent carriers with other telecommunications service providers may make these problems more acute. The operation, administration, maintenance and repair of our systems require significant expenses and are subject to risks that could lead to disruptions in our services and the failure of our systems to operate as intended for their full design life. Each of our systems is subject to the risks inherent in large-scale, complex fiber-optic telecommunications systems including (i) equipment breakdowns; (ii) service interruptions; (iii) power outages; (iv) software defects; (v) security breaches; (vi) physical damage to access lines and equipment; and (vii) natural disasters. The operation, administration, maintenance and repair of our systems require the coordination and integration of sophisticated and highly specialized hardware and software technologies and equipment located throughout the world and require significant operating and capital expenses. Our systems may not continue to function as expected in a cost-effective manner. For example, as our network elements become obsolete or reach their design life capacity, our operating and capital expenses could significantly increase depending on the nature and extent of repairs or replacements. The failure of the hardware or software to function as required could render a cable system unable to perform at design specifications or at all, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, interruptions in service or performance problems, for whatever reason, could undermine confidence in our services and cause us to lose customers or make it more difficult to attract new ones. In particular, a failure of our operations support systems could adversely affect our ability to process orders and provision sales, and to bill for services efficiently and accurately, all of which could cause us to suffer customer dissatisfaction, loss of business, loss of revenue or the inability to add customers on a timely basis, any of which would adversely affect our revenues. In addition, because many of our services are critical to our customers’ businesses, a significant interruption in service could result in lost profits or other loss to customers. Although we attempt to disclaim liability for these losses in our service agreements, a court might not enforce a limitation on liability under certain conditions, which could expose us to financial loss. In addition, we often provide customers with guaranteed service level commitments. If we are unable to meet these guaranteed service level commitments for whatever reason, we may be obligated to provide our customers with credits, generally in the form of free service for a short period of time, which could negatively affect our operating results and we may be exposed to other liabilities. We may not be able to retain our key management personnel or attract additional skilled management personnel. We depend on key members of our senior management team to remain competitive and achieve our strategic goals. Our inability to retain our key management personnel or to continue to attract skilled management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Recent capital expenditure levels may not be sustainable. While capital expenditures have remained relatively stable at levels significantly below those prevailing prior to our bankruptcy reorganization, such levels may not be sustainable in the future, particularly as our 31 Table of Contents business continues to grow. Our ability to fund future capital expenditures may be limited by our ability to generate sufficient cash flow, including raising any necessary financings, which could prove to be difficult if conditions in the credit markets deteriorate. Intellectual property and proprietary rights of others could prevent us from using necessary technology. While we do not believe that there exists any technology patented by others, or other intellectual property owned by others, that is necessary for us to provide our services and that is not now subject to a license allowing us to use it, from time to time we receive claims from third parties in this regard and there can be no assurances as to our ability to defend against those claims successfully. If such intellectual property is owned by others and not licensed by us, we would have to negotiate a license for the use of that intellectual property. We may not be able to negotiate such a license at a price that is acceptable or at all. This could force us to cease offering products and services incorporating such intellectual property, thereby adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be successful in making or integrating acquisitions with our business or may not be able to realize the benefits we anticipate from such acquisitions. We have in the past, and may in the future, pursue acquisitions to grow our business. The process of integrating acquisitions with our business so that the consolidated business operates as efficiently as possible requires significant corporate resources, and such efficiencies will be limited to some degree by our Principal Debt Instruments and Capital Lease Facilities. In addition, this process could cause the interruption to, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of our or our acquisitions’ businesses, including customer service, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The management of the integration of the businesses, systems and culture of our acquisitions requires the continued development of our financial and management controls, including the integration of information systems and structure, the integration of product offerings and customer base, the integration of networks, the retention of current personnel and the training of new personnel, all of which could disrupt the timeliness of financial information, place a strain on our management resources and require significant expenditure. Any significant diversion of management’s attention or any major difficulties encountered in the integration of the business such as insufficient revenue to offset expenses, inadequate return of capital, and issues not identified in the Company’s pre-acquisition due diligence process, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have substantial international operations and face political, legal, tax, regulatory and other risks from our operations in foreign jurisdictions. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from international operations and have substantial physical assets in several jurisdictions along our routes, including Venezuela, Ecuador, Argentina, Brazil and other countries in Latin America, Asia and Europe. In addition, we lease capacity and obtain rights of way and other services from carriers and government and quasi-government agencies in those and other regions. As a result, our business is subject to particular risks from operating in some of these areas, including: uncertain and rapidly changing political, regulatory and economic conditions, including the possibility of civil unrest, vandalism affecting cable assets, terrorism, armed conflict or the seizure or nationalizing of private property; unexpected changes in regulatory environments and trade barriers; interruptions to essential energy inputs; exchange and/or transfer restrictions related to foreign currency; direct and indirect price controls; cancellation or non-renewal of contract rights; delays or denial of government approval; exposure to new or different accounting, legal, tax and regulatory standards; burdensome tax, customs, duties, regulatory assessments or right-of-way charges based on new or differing interpretations of law or regulations; and difficulties in staffing and managing operations consistently through our several operating areas. In addition, managing operations in multiple jurisdictions may place further strain on our ability to manage growth. 32 Table of Contents We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) and other anticorruption laws, and our failure to comply therewith could result in penalties which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and/or other benefits. Although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees and agents comply with the FCPA and other anticorruption laws, there can be no assurance that such policies or procedures will work effectively all of the time or protect us against liability for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries with respect to our business or any businesses that we acquire. We operate in a number of jurisdictions that pose a high risk of potential anticorruption violations. If we are not in compliance with the FCPA and other laws governing the conduct of business with government entities (including local laws), we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Any investigation of any potential violations of the FCPA or other anticorruption laws by U.S. or foreign authorities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The U.K. Bribery Act 2010 (the “Bribery Act”), which is expected to come into force in 2011, will reform the U.K. law in relation to bribery. As well as containing provisions concerning bribery of public officials, the Bribery Act introduces a new criminal offence of failing to prevent bribery by relevant commercial organizations. This offense applies when any person associated with the organization offers or accepts bribery anywhere in the world intending to obtain or retain a business advantage for the organization or in the conduct of business. The Bribery Act has wide ranging implications in particular for business in the U.K., including GCUK and our other U.K. subsidiaries. However, it should be noted that it also has a wide-ranging extra-territorial effect. The Bribery Act is broader in scope than the FCPA in that it directly addresses commercial bribery in addition to bribery of government officials and it does not recognize certain exceptions, notably facilitation payments that are permitted by the FCPA. Under the Bribery Act, it will be a defense to the accusation of failure to prevent bribery for a commercial organization to show that it had in place “adequate procedures” designed to prevent such acts. The U.K. Ministry of Justice plans to publish guidance on the meaning of “adequate procedures” in advance of the date the Bribery Act comes into effect. We are exposed to significant currency transfer restrictions and currency exchange rate risks and our net loss may suffer due to currency translations. Certain of our current and prospective customers derive their revenue in currencies other than U.S. Dollars but are invoiced by us in U.S. Dollars. The obligations of customers with substantial revenue in foreign currencies may be subject to unpredictable and indeterminate increases in the event that such currencies depreciate in value relative to the U.S. Dollar. Furthermore, such customers may become subject to exchange control regulations restricting the conversion of their revenue currencies into U.S. Dollars. In either event, the affected customers may not be able to pay us in U.S. Dollars. In addition, where we issue invoices for our services in currencies other than U.S. Dollars, our net loss may suffer due to currency translations in the event that such currencies depreciate relative to the U.S. Dollar and we cannot or do not elect to enter into currency hedging arrangements in respect of those payment obligations. Declines in the value of foreign currencies (such as the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar discussed below) relative to the U.S. Dollar could adversely affect our ability to market our services to customers whose revenue is denominated in those currencies. Certain Latin American economies have experienced shortages in foreign currency reserves and have adopted restrictions on the use of certain mechanisms to expatriate local earnings and convert local currencies into U.S. Dollars. Any such shortages or restrictions may limit or impede our ability to transfer or to convert such currencies into U.S. Dollars and to expatriate such funds for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on our indebtedness. In addition, currency devaluations in one country may have adverse effects in another country. 33 Table of Contents In Venezuela, the official bolivares—U.S. Dollar exchange rate established by the Venezuelan Central Bank (“BCV”) and the Venezuelan Ministry of Finance has historically attributed to the bolivar a value significantly greater than the value that prevailed on the former unregulated parallel market. The official rate is the rate used by the Comisión de Administración de Divisas (“CADIVI”), an agency of the Venezuelan government, to exchange bolivares pursuant to an official process that requires application and government approval. We use the official rate to record the assets, liabilities and transactions of our Venezuelan subsidiary. Effective January 12, 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued the Venezuelan bolivar. The official rate increased from 2.15 Venezuelan bolivares to the U.S. Dollar to 4.30 for goods and services deemed “non-essential” and 2.60 for goods and services deemed “essential”. This devaluation reduced our net monetary assets (including unrestricted cash and cash equivalents) by approximately $27 million based on the bolivares balances as of such date, resulting in a corresponding foreign exchange loss, included in other expense, net in our consolidated statement of operations for 2010. Effective January 1, 2011, the Venezuelan government further increased the official rate for goods deemed “essential” to 4.30 Venezuelan bolivares to the U.S. Dollar. This change had no effect on the carrying value of our cash and cash equivalents. In an attempt to control inflation, on May 18, 2010, the Venezuelan government announced that the unregulated parallel currency exchange market would be shut down and that the BCV would be given control over the previously unregulated portions of the exchange market. In June 2010, a new regulated currency trading system controlled by the BCV, the Transaction System for Foreign Currency Denominated Securities (“SITME”), commenced operations and established an initial weighted average implicit exchange rate of approximately 5.30 bolivares to the U.S. Dollar. Subject to the limitations and restrictions imposed by the BCV, entities domiciled in Venezuela may access the SITME by buying U.S. Dollar denominated securities through banks authorized by the BCV. The purpose of the new regulated system is to supplement the CADIVI application and approval process with an additional process that allows for quicker and smaller exchanges. As indicated above, the conversion of bolivares into foreign currencies is limited by the current exchange control regime. Accordingly, the acquisition of foreign currency by Venezuelan companies to honor foreign debt, pay dividends or otherwise expatriate capital is subject to either the limitations and restrictions of the SITME or the CADIVI registration, application and approval process, and is also subject to the availability of foreign currency within the guidelines set forth by the National Executive Power for the allocation of foreign currency. Approvals under the CADIVI process have been less forthcoming at times, resulting in a significant buildup of excess cash in our Venezuelan subsidiary and a significant increase in our exchange rate and exchange control risks. At December 31, 2010, we had $14 million of obligations registered and subject to approval by CADIVI for the conversion of bolivares into foreign currencies. We cannot predict the timing and extent of any CADIVI approvals to honor foreign debt, distribute dividends or otherwise expatriate capital using the official Venezuelan exchange rate. Some approvals have been issued within a few months while others have taken more than one year. During 2010 and 2009, we received $9 million and $7 million, respectively, of approvals from CADIVI to convert bolivares to U.S. Dollars at both the essential and non-essential official rates. In 2010, we participated in a debt auction held by the Venezuelan government and used bolivares to purchase $10 million of U.S. Dollar-denominated bonds at par value in connection with our currency exchange risk mitigation efforts. We received approval to purchase the bonds and sold these bonds immediately upon receipt at a price of $8 million paid in U.S. Dollars, which resulted in an approximate 25% discount. The loss of $2 million was included in other income (expense), net in our consolidated statement of operations for 2010. To date, we have not executed any exchanges through SITME. If we were to successfully avail our self of the SITME process to convert a portion of our Venezuelan subsidiary’s cash balances into U.S. Dollars, we would incur currency exchange losses in the period of conversion based on the difference between the official exchange rate and the SITME rate. Additionally, if we were to determine in the future that the SITME rate was the more appropriate rate to use to measure bolivar-based assets, liabilities and transactions, reported results would be further adversely affected. 34 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, approximately $37 million (valued at the fixed official CADIVI rate of 4.30 Venezuelan bolivares to the U.S. Dollar at December 31, 2010 (“the “CADIVI rate”)) of our cash and cash equivalents was held in Venezuelan bolivares. For 2010, our Venezuelan subsidiary contributed approximately $52 million of our consolidated revenue and $30 million of our consolidated OIBDA, in each case based on the CADIVI rate. These amounts do not include any allocated corporate overhead costs or transfer pricing adjustments. As of December 31, 2010, our Venezuelan subsidiary had $37 million of net monetary assets of which $4 million were denominated in U.S. Dollars and $33 million were denominated in Venezuelan bolivares at the CADIVI rate. As of December 31, 2010, our Venezuelan subsidiary had $70 million of net assets. In light of the Venezuelan exchange control regime, none of these net assets (other than the $4 million of cash denominated in U.S. Dollars and held outside of Venezuela) may be transferred to GCL in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends without the consent of a third party (i.e., CADIVI or SITME). We conduct a significant portion of our business using the British Pound Sterling, the Euro and the Brazilian Real. Appreciation of the U.S. Dollar adversely impacts our consolidated revenue. Since we tend to incur costs in the same currency in which we realize revenue, the impact on operating income and operating cash flow is largely mitigated. However, if the U.S. Dollar appreciates significantly, future revenues, operating income and operating cash flows could be materially affected. In addition, the appreciation of the U.S. Dollar relative to foreign currencies reduces the U.S. Dollar value of cash balances held in those currencies. Economic and political conditions in Latin America pose numerous risks to our operations. Our business operations in the Latin American region constitute a material portion of our business. As events in the Latin American region have demonstrated, negative economic or political developments in one country in the region can lead to or exacerbate economic or political instability elsewhere in the region. Furthermore, events in recent years in other developing markets have placed pressures on the stability of the currencies of a number of countries in Latin America in which we operate, including Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Venezuela. While certain areas in the Latin American region have experienced economic growth, this recovery remains fragile. Pressures on local currencies are likely to have an adverse effect on our customers. Volatility in regional currencies and capital markets could also have an adverse effect on our ability and that of our customers to gain access to international capital markets for necessary financing, refinancing and repatriation of earnings. In addition, any changes to the political and economic conditions in certain Latin American countries could materially and adversely impact our future business, operations, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in January 2007, the Venezuelan National Assembly issued an Enabling Law allowing the President of Venezuela to carry out the nationalization of certain businesses in the electricity and energy sectors, as well as Venezuela’s largest telecommunications company, Compañía Anónima Nacional Teléfonos de Venezuela (“CANTV”). CANTV was nationalized in the same year. A statement from the Venezuelan minister of telecommunications and director of the Comisión Nacional de Telecomunicaciones, the country’s telecommunications regulatory authority, has indicated that the nationalization of CANTV does not imply the nationalization of the telecommunications sector as a whole. However, there can be no assurance that such nationalization plans will not also extend to other businesses in the telecommunications sector, including our business. The government also announced plans to modify the telecommunications law, and we cannot predict the impact of such amendments to our business. In addition, a referendum held on February 15, 2009, approved an amendment to the nation’s constitution removing presidential term limits. Inflation and certain government measures to curb inflation in some Latin American countries may have adverse effects on their economies, our business and our operations. Some Latin American countries, including Venezuela, Brazil and Argentina, have historically experienced high rates of inflation. Inflation and some measures implemented to curb inflation have had significant negative effects on the economies of these countries. Governmental actions taken in an effort to curb inflation, coupled with speculation about possible future actions, have contributed to economic uncertainty at times in most Latin 35 Table of Contents American countries. These countries may experience high levels of inflation in the future that could lead to further government intervention in the economy, including the introduction of government policies that could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if any of these countries experience high rates of inflation, we may not be able to adjust the price of our services sufficiently to offset the effects of inflation on our cost structures. A high inflation environment would also have negative effects on the level of economic activity and employment and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our most important government customers have the right to terminate their contracts with us if a change of control occurs or to reduce the services they purchase from us. Various agencies of the U.K. Government together represented approximately 51%, 49% and 47% of the GCUK Segment’s revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Many of GCUK’s government contracts contain broad change of control provisions that permit the customer to terminate the contract if GCUK undergoes a change of control. A termination in many instances gives rise to other rights of the government customer, including, in some cases, the right to purchase some of GCUK’s assets used in servicing those contracts. Some change of control provisions may be triggered when any lender (other than a bank lender in the normal course of business) or a noteholder or group of noteholders would have the right to control GCUK or the majority of GCUK’s assets upon any event, including upon bankruptcy. If GCUK’s noteholders have the right to control GCUK or the majority of GCUK’s assets upon such event, it could be deemed to be a change of control of GCUK. Similarly, if ST Telemedia’s ownership interest in Global Crossing falls below certain levels, it could be deemed to be an indirect change of control of GCUK. If any of GCUK’s significant government contracts were terminated as a result of a change of control, we could experience a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, most of GCUK’s government contracts do not include significant minimum usage guarantees. Thus, the applicable customers could simply choose not to use GCUK’s services and move to another telecommunications provider. If the applicable customers of any of GCUK’s significant government contracts were to significantly reduce the services that they purchase under these contracts, we could experience a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. One of GCUK’s principal customer relationships is with the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office (“FCO”), to whom GCUK provides an international telecommunications network known as the FTN. GCUK’s contract to provide the FTN expired in May 2010. GCUK has entered into transition arrangements in respect of the FCO’s migration to a network to be provided by a competitor as the replacement for the FTN. We estimate our 2011 revenue to be adversely impacted by between $10 million to $15 million. In addition, we continue to pursue other ordinary course commercial opportunities with the FCO. Risks Related to Competition and Our Industry The prices that we charge for our services have been decreasing, and we expect that such decreases will continue over time. We expect overall price erosion in our industry to continue at varying rates based on our service portfolio and reflective of marketplace demand and competition relative to existing capabilities and availability. Accordingly, our historical revenues are not indicative of future revenues based on comparable traffic volumes. If the prices for our services decrease for whatever reason and we are unable to increase profitable sales volumes through additional services or otherwise or correspondingly reduce operational costs, our operating results would be adversely affected. Similarly, future price decreases could be greater than we are anticipating. 36 Table of Contents Technological advances and regulatory changes are eroding traditional barriers between formerly distinct telecommunications markets, which could increase the competition we face and put downward pressure on prices. New and relatively new technologies, such as VoIP, and regulatory changes are blurring the distinctions between traditional and emerging telecommunications markets. As a result, a competitor in any of our business areas is potentially a competitor in our other business areas. We face competition in each of our markets from the incumbent carrier in that market and from more recent market entrants. In addition, we could face competition from other companies, such as other competitive carriers, cable television companies, microwave carriers, wireless telephone system operators and private networks built by large end-users or municipalities. The introduction of new technologies may reduce the cost of services similar to those that we plan to provide and create significant new competitors with superior cost structures. If we are not able to compete effectively with any of these industry participants, or if this competition places excessive downward pressure on prices, our operating results would be adversely affected. In the U.K., the Government launched a plan in December 2010 aiming to ensure that every community will have access to “superfast broadband” services by 2015. The regulator, OFCOM, is currently considering the regulation of access to passive infrastructure such as ducts and poles and the terms under which interconnection of networks at the IP layer should be regulated to best achieve the Government’s policy objective. Each of OFCOM’s initiatives and others may impact our business but, at this time, it is not possible to predict the future effect on market conditions or investment returns. Individual and collective regulatory decisions could have negative effects on our U.K. business, which could materially and adversely affect our consolidated business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our competitors have superior resources, which could place us at a cost and price disadvantage. Many of our existing and potential competitors have significant competitive advantages, including greater market presence, name recognition and financial, technological and personnel resources, superior engineering and marketing capabilities, more ubiquitous network reach, and significantly larger installed customer bases. As a result, many of our competitors can raise capital at a lower cost than we can, and they may be able to adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities (including regulatory changes) more readily, and devote greater resources to the development, marketing and sale of products and services than we can. Also, our competitors’ greater brand name recognition may require us to price our services at lower levels in order to win business. Our competitors’ financial advantages may give them the ability to reduce their prices for an extended period of time if they so choose. Many of these advantages are expected to increase with the trend toward consolidation by large industry participants. Continued industry consolidation could further strengthen our competitors and adversely affect our prospects. Failure to develop and introduce new services could affect our ability to compete in the industry. We continuously develop, test and introduce new communications services that are delivered over our communications network. These new services are intended to allow us to address new segments of the communications marketplace and to compete for additional customers. In certain instances, the introduction of new services requires the successful development of new technology. To the extent that upgrades of existing technology are required for the introduction of new services, the success of these upgrades may be dependent on reaching mutually acceptable terms with vendors and on vendors meeting their obligations in a timely manner. In addition, new service offerings may not be widely accepted by our customers. If our new service offerings are not widely accepted, we may terminate those service offerings and we may be required to impair any assets or technology used to develop or offer those services. If we are not able to successfully complete the development and introduction of new services in a timely manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 37 Table of Contents Our selection of technology could prove to be incorrect, ineffective or unacceptably costly, which would limit our ability to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs, emerging competition and frequent new product and service introductions. The future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to adapt to these factors in a timely and cost-effective manner. If we do not replace or upgrade technology and equipment that becomes obsolete, or if the technology choices we make prove to be incorrect, ineffective or unacceptably costly, we will be unable to compete effectively because we will not be able to meet the expectations of our customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to regulation in each of the countries in which we operate and require us to obtain and maintain a number of governmental licenses and permits. If we fail to comply with those regulatory requirements or to obtain and maintain those licenses and permits, including payment of related fees, if any, we may not be able to conduct our business. Moreover, those regulatory requirements could change in a manner that significantly increases our costs or otherwise adversely affects our operations. In the ordinary course of constructing our networks and providing our services we are required to obtain and maintain a variety of telecommunications and other licenses and authorizations in the countries in which we operate, as well as rights-of-way from utilities, railroads, incumbent carriers and other persons. We also must comply with a variety of regulatory obligations. Due to the political and economic risks associated with the countries in which we operate, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our licenses or that they will be renewed upon their expiration. Our failure to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, authorizations and rights-of-way, or to comply with the obligations imposed upon license holders including the payment of fees, in one or more countries, may result in sanctions or additional costs, including the revocation of authority to provide services in one or more countries. Our operations around the world are subject to regulation at the regional level (e.g., European Union), the national level (e.g. FCC) and, in many cases, at the state, provincial, and local levels. The regulation of telecommunications networks and services around the world varies widely. In some countries, the range of services that we are legally permitted to provide may be limited. In other countries, existing telecommunications legislation is in the process of development, is unclear or inconsistent, or is applied in an unequal or discriminatory fashion, or inadequate judicial, regulatory or other forums are available to address these inadequacies or disputes. Regulations or rules on network neutrality, license fees, environmental, health and safety, privacy and other regulatory changes, in general or particular to our industry, may increase costs and restrict operations. Our inability or failure to comply with the telecommunications and other laws and regulations of one or more of the countries in which we operate could result in the temporary or permanent suspension of operations in one or more countries. We also may be prohibited from entering certain countries at all or from providing all of our services in one or more countries. In addition, many of the countries in which we operate are conducting regulatory or other proceedings that will affect the implementation of their telecommunications legislation. We cannot be certain of the outcome of these proceedings. These proceedings may affect the manner in which we are permitted to provide our services in these countries as well as the level of fees and taxes payable to the government, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may adversely affect the financial markets and our business and operations. Significant terrorist attacks against the U.S., the U.K. or other countries in which we operate are possible. It is possible that our physical facilities or network control systems could be the target of such attacks or that such attacks could impact other telecommunications companies or infrastructure or the Internet in a manner that disrupts our operations. Terrorist attacks (or threats of attack) also could lead to volatility or illiquidity in world 38 Table of Contents financial markets and could otherwise adversely affect the economy. These events could adversely affect our business and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms. In addition, it is becoming increasingly difficult and expensive to obtain adequate insurance for losses due to terrorist attacks. Uninsured losses as a result of such attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to our Common Stock We have a very substantial overhang of common stock and a majority shareholder that owns a substantial portion of common stock and securities convertible into our common stock. Future sales of our common stock by our majority shareholder could significantly increase the market supply of such shares and future acquisitions by our majority shareholder will decrease the liquidity of our common stock, each of which may negatively affect the market price of our shares and impact our ability to raise capital. As of February 1, 2011, there were 60,672,946 shares of our common stock outstanding, 18,000,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon the conversion of our outstanding convertible preferred stock. We also have a significant number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding stock options and vesting of unvested restricted stock units (see Item 5, “Market for Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters—Equity Compensation Plan Information”). As of February 1, 2011, STT Crossing, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ST Telemedia, beneficially owned over 60.2% of our capital stock. Although the shares beneficially owned by STT Crossing are not freely transferable under the Securities Act, ST Telemedia has the contractual right to require us to register sales of such restricted stock at any time. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock into the market, the availability of shares of common stock for future sale, or any acquisition of common shares by ST Telemedia and its affiliates will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued upon the exercise of stock options or conversion of any convertible securities), the purchase of a substantial amount of common shares by our affiliates, or the perception that such sales or acquisitions could occur, may materially and adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and impact our ability to raise capital. Federal law generally prohibits more than 25% of GCL’s capital stock to be owned by foreign persons. Ownership of GCL’s common stock is governed in part by the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. Other than ownership by ST Telemedia and its affiliates, which cannot exceed 66.25% without prior FCC approval, foreign ownership of GCL’s capital stock (i.e., total equity interests held by non-U.S. persons) generally cannot exceed 25% without prior FCC approval. Although we monitor foreign ownership in our capital stock, we cannot necessarily detect or control it and could be subject to governmental penalties if trading in our capital stock resulted in foreign ownership in excess of 25% without prior FCC approval. ST Telemedia is our majority stockholder. As of February 1, 2011, a subsidiary of ST Telemedia owns over 60.2% of GCL’s outstanding capital stock. As a result, ST Telemedia has the power to elect the majority of GCL’s directors. Under applicable law, GCL’s articles of association and bye-laws and the certificate of designations for GCL’s preferred stock, certain actions cannot be taken without the approval of holders of a majority of our voting stock including, without limitation, mergers, certain acquisitions and dispositions, issuances of additional equity securities (with certain enumerated exceptions), incurrences of indebtedness above specified amounts, the making of capital expenditures in excess of specified amounts, and amendments to our articles of association and bye-laws. GCL’s bye-laws include significant additional corporate governance rights of ST Telemedia. These rights effectively dilute the rights of other shareholders. 39 Table of Contents A sale by ST Telemedia of a significant portion of its shareholdings in us could trigger contractual provisions tied to a change in control of our company. For example, a change in control could result in the termination of significant contracts with U.K. government customers, the requirement that we offer to purchase the 12% Senior Secured Notes, the 9% Senior Notes and the GCUK Notes at a price equal to 101% of their outstanding principal amounts plus accrued and unpaid interest, and the acceleration of the vesting of stock options and other incentive compensation awards granted to our directors and employees. Other Risks We are exposed to legal proceedings and contingent liabilities, including those related to Impsat, that could result in material losses that we have not reserved against. We are a party to various legal proceedings and are subject to certain important contingent liabilities described more fully in Note 19, “Commitments, Contingencies and Other,” to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K. If one or more of these legal proceedings or contingent liabilities were to be resolved in a manner adverse to us, we could suffer losses that are material to our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have not established reserves for many of these contingent liabilities and those for which reserves have been established could be adversely resolved at levels exceeding the reserved amounts. Certain of these contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in addition to the effect of any potential monetary judgment or sanction against us. Furthermore, any legal proceedings, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Assets and entities that we acquired in the Impsat and Genesis Networks transactions, or may acquire in future acquisitions, may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have no recourse, or only limited recourse to the entity from which the business was acquired (or its stakeholders). Our real estate restructuring reserve represents a material liability, the calculation of which involves significant estimation. As of December 31, 2010, our real estate restructuring reserve related to 2003 and prior restructuring plans aggregated $73 million of continuing building lease obligations and broker commissions, offset by anticipated receipts of $48 million from existing subleases and $16 million from subleases projected to be entered into in the future. Although we believe these estimates to be reasonable, actual sublease receipts could turn out to be materially less than we have estimated, in which case our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 