Risk Factors, “Many of our most important government customers have the right to terminate their contracts with us if a change of control occurs or to reduce the services they purchase from us.” Our Network Our network consists of a series of assets and rights that allow us to operate service platforms enabling the delivery of various protocol-based data and voice services in major business centers throughout the world. We monitor and provide surveillance utilizing a suite of operational support systems to provision and maintain this network worldwide. At the base of our network are subsea and terrestrial fiber-optic cables that connect and cross North America, South America, Europe and a portion of the Asia/Pacific region, which we either own or hold under long-term indefeasible rights of use (“IRUs”) from other carriers. These fiber-optic assets and related network transmission, switching and routing equipment (the “GC Fiber Network”) provide seamless, broadband connectivity to 30 countries through a combination of subsea cables, national and international networks and metropolitan networks. 8 Table of Contents In addition to the GC Fiber Network, we lease rights (such as wavelengths) on other carriers’ fiber-optic cables on a non-IRU basis. In certain cases, we own and operate the network transmission, switching and routing equipment that provides us with the ability to monitor and manage traffic over these leased facilities. We refer to the portions of our leased network over which we have this degree of control, together with the GC Fiber Network, as the “Core Network.” The Core Network has approximately 800 PoPs in approximately 400 cities in 45 countries worldwide (“Regional PoPs”). These Regional PoPs house dense wave division multiplexing (“DWDM”) equipment that combines multiple colored wavelengths (or channels) on a single fiber and transports them as multiple signals across the network. In addition to the DWDM equipment, the Regional PoPs generally house add/drop multiplexer equipment that combines lower speed private line, data, Ethernet and voice traffic. The North American network portion of the GC Fiber Network comprises approximately 18,000 route miles of fiber in the U.S. and Canada, most of which consists of IRUs in fibers purchased from other carriers. It has approximately 170 Regional PoPs, 20 integrated service platform sites, three subsea cable landing stations and five primary international voice gateway sites. The North American network carries voice, data and private line services over our IP, synchronous optical network (“SONET”), and ATM backbones, all traversing 2.5 and 10 Gbps DWDM systems. IP, SONET and ATM are methods of sending audio, video and computer data at the same time over one high-speed digital/optical line. The European network portion of the GC Fiber Network (excluding the U.K.) consists of more than 14,000 route miles of fiber in the western region of the continent, most of which are contained in cable that we own. This network has approximately 70 Regional PoPs, six cable landing stations, and two international voice and three international data gateway sites. The European network carries voice, data and private line services over our IP, SDH (which is a transmission format similar to SONET) and ATM backbones, all traversing 2.5 and 10 Gbps DWDM transmission systems. The GCUK portion of the GC Fiber Network comprises approximately 9,750 route miles of fiber and comes within 1.5 miles of more than two-thirds of Britain’s business infrastructure. This network has approximately 390 Regional PoPs and carries voice, data and private line services over IP and ATM/Frame Relay backbones, all traversing DWDM and SDH transmission systems. The U.K. network also encompasses nine major metro markets and 55 smaller towns and cities providing seamless services to the rest of the Global Crossing network. Less than 25% of the GCUK portion of the GC Fiber Network is held under leases which come up for renewal prior to 2011. The subsea portion of the GC Fiber Network consists of six fiber-optic cable systems owned by us: Atlantic Crossing-1 (“AC-1”), Atlantic Crossing-2 (“AC-2”), Mid-Atlantic Crossing (“MAC”), South American Crossing (“SAC”), Pan American Crossing (“PAC”) and an approximately 340 route mile system connecting the U.K. and Ireland. SAC is a 12,000 route mile sub-sea system that includes a 1,500 mile terrestrial route connecting Argentina and Chile. SAC connects major markets throughout Latin America and is one of only two sub-sea systems currently in operation that circumnavigates the majority of South America. At approximately 4,600 route miles, MAC provides a strategic gateway between the Eastern Seaboard of the U.S. and our Latin America assets, a route that is experiencing acute demand growth and increasing capacity scarcity. PAC is integrated with a 2,300 mile terrestrial ring route (including associated backhaul) within Mexico, and we completed the extension of our PAC system to Costa Rica in 2008. In the aggregate, these systems span approximately 39,000 route miles and have approximately 30 landing points on three continents: North America, South America and Europe. These are all two or four fiber strand pair cables equipped with 10 Gbps DWDM transmission systems. AC-2 consists of two fiber strand pairs in a cable containing four fiber strand pairs that was co-built with Level 3 Communications, Inc. These systems include 14 Regional PoPs in the Latin America and Caribbean regions. The GC Impsat Segment’s portion of the GC Fiber Network comprises a multiple strand 5,200 mile long-haul fiber network that connects more than 250 cities. The GC Impsat Segment also operates a metro network that covers more than 575 miles in 14 metro markets. The deployed facilities include 15 metropolitan area 9 Table of Contents networks in the largest cities of the region, long haul networks across Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Colombia, and leased submarine capacity to link South America to the United States. Together, the GC Impsat Segment’s long-haul and metro networks connect more than 450 customer locations. The GC Impsat Segment’s network carries voice, data and private line services over IP, SDH and ATM backbones, all traversing 2.5 and 10 Gbps DWDM transmission systems. Our network assets in the Asia/Pacific region and those connecting the U.S. to this region include both IRUs and leased circuits on multiple subsea systems. We operate Regional PoPs in Hong Kong, Tokyo, Singapore and Sydney. Each of these PoPs supports Internet access, IP VPN, ATM and Frame Relay services, with Hong Kong also supporting VoIP services. Our Core Network includes IRUs and leases of trans-Pacific capacity on the PC-1 fiber-optic cable system, which is owned by Pacific Crossing Limited, a former subsidiary of the Company (“PCL”). Our IP network consists of a service layer running on the Core Network and utilizes a single Autonomous System Number (“ASN”). We have 98 distinct IP hubs, 29 of which contain a VoIP presence and 28 of which have public or private peering interconnects. The single ASN implies a greater degree of integration than that which exists in a multiple ASN system. Having a global ASN allows us to deploy certain technologies, such as Multi-Protocol Label Switching (“MPLS”), more quickly and on a global basis. It also provides our international customers with a more global appearance in the global Internet routing table. Our IP network utilizes a MPLS Juniper core with a mixture of Cisco, Juniper and Foundry devices at the edge of the network. The network is considered a Tier 1 backbone and is quality-of-service enabled, which allows different types of data to be assigned different priorities, such that, for example, voice can always have priority over IP VPN and Internet traffic. The network carries approximately 1,454 Gbps of total IP traffic, of which approximately 21 Gbps is IP VPN and 34 Gbps is voice traffic, averaging approximately one billion minutes of VoIP per month, or more than one-third of the total voice minutes. Our VoIP platform is fully compatible with our TDM network. We operate our Core Network from four primary network operations centers. The Global Network Operations Center in London manages our subsea cable systems and our European and U.K. networks. The North America Network Operations Center, located in Southfield, Michigan, manages the global voice network and the North American transport network. The Global Data Services Network Operating Center, located in Phoenix, Arizona, manages the global IP and Frame Relay/ATM networks. The GC Impsat Segment’s network operations center located in Buenos Aires manages all of that segment’s networks. In addition, we have a small network operating center in Newark, New Jersey that provides redundant IP and ATM network management capability. Together with those locations connected directly by the Core Network, through network to network interface agreements with other service providers, we deliver services to more than 690 cities in more than 60 countries and six continents around the world. Network Security Agreement On September 23, 2003, the U.S. Government granted approval under Section 721 of the Defense Production Act of the investment in GCL by Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd (“ST Telemedia”) pursuant to the GC Debtors’ plan of reorganization. In order to obtain this approval, we entered into an agreement (the “Network Security Agreement”) with certain agencies of the U.S. Government to address the U.S. Government’s national security and law enforcement concerns. The Network Security Agreement is intended to ensure that our operations do not impair the U.S. Government’s ability (1) to carry out lawfully authorized electronic surveillance of communications that originate and/or terminate in the U.S.; (2) to prevent and detect foreign-based espionage and electronic surveillance of U.S. communications; and (3) to satisfy U.S. critical infrastructure protection requirements. Failure to comply with our obligations under the Network Security Agreement could result in the revocation of our telecommunications licenses by the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”). 10 Table of Contents While our operations were generally consistent with the requirements of the Network Security Agreement prior to its execution, we have undertaken a number of operational improvements in order to ensure full implementation of, and compliance with, the Network Security Agreement. These improvements relate to information storage and management, traffic routing and management, physical, logical and network security arrangements, and personnel screening and training. The Network Security Agreement affects our corporate governance as well. The GCL Board of Directors maintains a Security Committee comprised solely of directors who are U.S. citizens and who already possess or are eligible to possess a U.S. security clearance. These “Security Directors” must satisfy the independent director requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, regardless of whether any of GCL’s securities are listed on such exchange. At least half of the members of the GCL board nominated by ST Telemedia must be Security Directors. See Item 10, “Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant,” below. A Security Director must be present at every meeting of the board of directors of GCL and of any of our U.S. subsidiaries unless such meeting in no way addresses or affects our obligations under the Network Security Agreement. In connection with the acquisition of Impsat, the Network Security Agreement was amended on February 1, 2007 to clarify that the U.S. operations of Impsat are subject to the terms of the agreement. Such amendment also expanded the scope of the Network Security Agreement to include data hosting, a service that Impsat’s U.S. operations had been engaged in to a limited extent prior to the acquisition. Our compliance with the Network Security Agreement is subject to annual audits by a neutral third-party auditor. We have completed four technical audits and did not report any areas of material non-compliance with the Network Security Agreement. Competition The telecommunications industry is intensely competitive and has undergone significant changes in recent years. Beginning in the late 1990s, a number of new competitors entered the market and commenced network construction activities, resulting in a significant expansion of worldwide network capacity. In 2001, it became clear that, at least in the short-term, actual demand was failing to keep pace with available supply, resulting in intense price pressure and, in many cases, an unsustainably low ratio of revenues to fixed costs. Market valuations of debt and equity securities of telecommunications companies, particularly new providers, decreased precipitously as the financial condition of many carriers deteriorated. During the ensuing five years, a number of these companies, including us, completed reorganizations, under bankruptcy and insolvency laws, with significant improvements to their financial condition or as newly formed entities that have acquired the assets of others at substantial discounts relative to their original cost. At the same time, the regulatory environment has changed and continues to change rapidly. Although the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the “1996 Act”) and actions by the FCC and state regulatory authorities have had the general effect of promoting competition in the provision of communications services in the U.S., these effects, together with new technologies, such as VoIP, and the importance of data services, have blurred the distinctions among traditional communications markets and have reduced barriers to entry in various lines of business. Efforts to liberalize markets around the world have produced similar results. In Europe, the new regulatory framework adopted by the European Commission attempts to treat all communications markets the same regardless of the technology used to serve the market. This “technologically neutral” approach to regulation has opened the market to new, non-traditional competitors. In Asia and Latin America, national regulatory authorities are considering policies that would exempt VoIP services from many of the traditional forms of regulation. Many of our existing and potential competitors have significant competitive advantages, including greater market presence, name recognition and financial, technological and personnel resources, superior engineering and marketing capabilities, more ubiquitous network reach, and significantly larger installed customer bases. 11 Table of Contents Many of these advantages have increased through consolidations by large industry participants, despite certain regulatory changes or conditions implemented in response to such consolidation in order to mitigate the impact on non-dominant carriers such as ourselves. On the other hand, as the competitive landscape continues to change with industry consolidation, we expect to experience greater demand from customers seeking network diversity, redundancy and a supplier that can meet their requirements worldwide. Our existing customer base, transport and hosting capabilities, and extensive network of suppliers globally, coupled with our systems, processes and strong customer service, position us as a viable provider of global services. The following summarizes the competition we face in all of our operating segments by type of competitor. Incumbent Carriers In each market that we serve, we face, and expect to continue to face, significant competition from the incumbent carriers, which currently dominate the local telecommunications markets. In the U.S., these are primarily Verizon, Qwest Communications and AT&T Inc. We face competition both outside and, in some cases, inside the U.S. from foreign incumbents, including companies such as British Telecom (“BT”), France Telecom, Telecom Italia, Telefónica, Telstra, Telmex and Deutsche Telekom. We compete with the incumbent carriers on the basis of product offerings, price, quality, customer service, capacity and reliability of network facilities, technology, route diversity and ease of ordering. Because our fiber-optic systems were installed relatively recently, compared with some of the networks of the incumbent carriers, our network’s architecture and technology may provide us with cost, capacity, and service quality advantages over some existing incumbent carrier networks. However, the incumbent carriers may have long-standing relationships with their customers and provide those customers with various transmission and switching services that we, in many cases, do not currently offer. In their own primary markets, the incumbents have the additional advantages of network concentration, control over local exchange assets, significant existing customer bases and, in the case of many foreign incumbents in their home markets, regulatory protection from competition. Other Voice Service Competitors In the U.S., the local incumbents dominate the market for local voice services and are among the strongest competitors in the long distance voice services market. In addition, we face, and expect to continue to face, competition for local and long distance voice telecommunications services from dozens of other companies that compete in the long distance marketplace in the U.S. Outside the U.S., the local incumbents dominate the markets for local and long distance voice services. Other Data Service Competitors In addition to the incumbents, we face, and expect to continue to face, competition for Internet access and other data services from telecommunications companies such as Cable and Wireless plc, Colt Telecom Group plc, Orange Business Services (formerly Equant N.V., which is now a unit of France Telecom), Infonet (a unit of BT), XO Communications and Level 3 and from online service providers, DSL service providers, ISPs and Web hosting providers. Other Conferencing Competitors In addition to competitors that provide voice and data services generally, our conferencing business competes with non-carriers that specialize in providing audio, video and Web conferencing services, such as InterCall, Inc. (a division of West Corporation) and Premiere Conferencing. 12 Table of Contents Regulatory Overview The construction and operation of our facilities and our provision of telecommunications services subject us to regulation in many countries throughout the world. Such regulation requires us to obtain a variety of permits, licenses, and authorizations in the ordinary course of business. In addition to telecommunications licenses and authorizations, we may be required to obtain environmental, construction, zoning and other permits, licenses, and authorizations, as well as rights of way (or their equivalents) necessary for our fiber-optic cable lines to pass through property owned by others. The construction and operation of our facilities and our provision of telecommunications services may subject us to regulation at the national, state, provincial, and local levels. While we believe that we have received all required authorizations to offer our services in the countries in which we operate, the conditions governing our service offerings remain subject to future legislation or regulation that could materially affect our business and operations. Below is a summary of the regulatory environment in the principal countries in which we operate, grouped by region. Our GCUK Segment and GC Impsat Segment are subject to the regulatory regimes in the U.K. and Latin America, respectively. The ROW Segment is subject to regulation primarily in North America, mainland Europe and Asia. In addition, the ROW Segment is subject to regulation in the U.K. and Latin America to the extent of its limited operations in those jurisdictions. North American Regulation Regulation in the U.S. In the U.S., our facilities and services are subject to regulation at both the federal and state level. The Communications Act of 1934, as amended, is the primary legislation governing our provision of interstate and international services. State communications and/or public utility statutes govern our intrastate operations. U.S. Federal Regulation The FCC exercises jurisdiction over our interstate and international services and, to some extent, the construction and operation of our facilities. We have authority from the FCC for the installation, acquisition and operation of our U.S. network and for the provision of international facilities-based services. Regulation of the Cost of Access The FCC and the states regulate the rates that incumbent local exchange carriers (“ILECs”) and CLECs (together with ILECs, are referred to herein as “LECs”) charge us for access to local exchanges, which is our single largest expense. Such regulations also apply to us in those states where we operate as a CLEC. Access charges that LECs impose upon us consist of both usage-sensitive switched access charges and flat-rated transport and special access charges. With respect to their access services, the FCC regulates ILECs as dominant carriers. We also may enter into carrier-to-carrier contracts with other, principally long-distance, carriers to transport and terminate our traffic. These latter arrangements are typically not subject to tariff regulation. ILEC Switched Access Charges The LECs assess usage-sensitive switched access charges for the use of their switched facilities to originate and terminate switched traffic. In 2000, the FCC established a regime to govern the provision of switched access services by the ILECs over a five-year period (the “CALLS Plan”). Under the CALLS Plan, usage-sensitive rates were decreased over time in favor of increases in end-user charges and a transitional preferred interexchange carrier charge. The LECs’ preferred interexchange carrier charges have decreased over time and most of the largest ILECs have ceased assessing this charge, although smaller ILECs and some CLECs continue to assess it. The CALLS Plan expired in 2005 and the FCC is considering proposals to govern access charges prospectively (see “—Intercarrier Compensation Reform”, below). 13 Table of Contents ILEC Special Access Charges The FCC currently regulates ILEC flat-rate transport and special access charges under the terms of its Special Access Pricing Flexibility Order, adopted in 1999. Under the Special Access Pricing Flexibility Order, ILECs are afforded two different levels of pricing flexibility depending upon the extent of deployment of alternative facilities within particular Metropolitan Statistical Areas (“MSAs”). The ILECs have been granted Type I (or the more limited form of pricing flexibility) in most MSAs in the country and have been granted Type II pricing flexibility in a lesser number of MSAs. Prior to the 2006 FCC-approved merger of AT&T and BellSouth, AT&T petitioned the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit to compel the FCC to consider a proposal to tighten its regulation of ILEC special access services. Although the Court declined to grant the petition, in January 2005 the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to consider how it should regulate ILEC special access services prospectively and whether it should tighten its regulation of special access services. This proceeding is still ongoing and we cannot predict its outcome. CLEC Access Charges Unlike the ILECs, the FCC regulates the CLECs as non-dominant carriers. The FCC permits a CLEC to file tariffs for its interstate access services so long as the CLEC’s rates do not exceed the rates of the ILEC that provides service in the territory that the CLEC services. However, a CLEC may charge the full benchmark rate even where it only provides a portion of the access service involved, i.e., in the case of jointly-provided access services. The FCC also permits CLECs to aggregate the traffic of other carriers, e.g., toll-free calls originating from wireless subscribers, although, in this circumstance, the CLEC is only permitted to charge for those portions of the access service it actually provides. Wireless Access Charges The FCC has adopted a mandatory detariffing regime for access services that wireless carriers wish to provide. Wireless carriers may not file tariffs for their putative access services and must, instead, enter into voluntary contracts in order to assess access charges upon potential access customers. Regulation of VoIP Traffic The FCC has addressed the subject of the jurisdictional nature of access charges and certain duties applicable to VoIP traffic in response to a number of petitions for declaratory ruling (or comparable petitions). The FCC has also issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comment on how it should regulate VoIP traffic prospectively. In February 2004, the FCC concluded that Pulver.com’s “Free World Dialup” service, which does not make use of the PSTN, is an unregulated information service. In April 2004, the FCC concluded that AT&T’s “phone-to-phone IP” service, which makes use of the PSTN and inserts an IP segment into the call path but as to which there is no net protocol conversion, is not an information service but is rather a telecommunications service, to which access charges are applicable, without regard to whether one or more service providers are involved. In November 2004, the FCC granted a petition filed by Vonage Holdings and declared that VoIP traffic that qualifies as an “enhanced” or “information” service (as specifically described in the Vonage petition) was jurisdictionally interstate and that state regulation of such traffic is preempted by federal law (the “Vonage Order”). The exact scope of the FCC’s decision is unclear, although at a minimum, it appears to cover traffic on which a net protocol conversion occurs, measured on an end-to-end basis. The Vonage Order was upheld on appeal. 14 Table of Contents In June 2005, the FCC concluded that VoIP service providers must support enhanced 911 emergency services or cease marketing VoIP services in areas where they cannot be supported. In September 2005, the FCC also concluded that VoIP service providers must comply with the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”) and configure their network and services to support law enforcement activity in the area of wiretaps and call records. The FCC ruling applies to all VoIP services that can both receive calls from and terminate calls to the public switched telephone network. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upheld the FCC’s actions in both cases. We will incur costs to be compliant with the rulings, but the exact nature and scope of the costs will remain unclear until the FCC issues further guidance regarding standards and compliance. In June 2006, the FCC issued an order holding that interconnected VoIP providers and for an interim two quarter period, their underlying carriers, must contribute to the federal universal service fund (the “FUSF”). The FCC has also recently held that its customer proprietary network information (“CPNI”) rules apply to VoIP carriers. In addition, the FCC has now extended to VoIP providers obligations to provide local number portability, make their services accessible to persons with disabilities, and report certain data relating to broadband. Local Reciprocal Compensation Local telephone companies that originate traffic that is terminated on the networks of other local carriers typically compensate the other local carriers for terminating that traffic. The FCC has established the general framework governing the level of such compensation, although the specific rates are established by the states. These rates vary from “bill-and-keep” to rates that approximate those for switched access. As is the case with access charges, the local reciprocal compensation rates are being examined in the FCC’s Intercarrier Compensation proceeding (see “—Intercarrier Compensation Reform” below). Intrastate Access Charges Intrastate access charges that LECs assess upon us (or that our CLECs are permitted to charge) are regulated by the states. Although certain LECs have elected to have intrastate access rates mirror interstate access rates, intrastate access rates are typically higher (often, significantly so) than interstate access rates. Intrastate access charges are also being examined in the FCC’s Intercarrier Compensation proceeding. Intrastate access charges are typically significantly higher than interstate access charges or local reciprocal charges. We have been (and are) involved in a number of disputes with LECs regarding the jurisdictional nature of access traffic. Intercarrier Compensation Reform As described above, the current regime governing intercarrier compensation consists of a patchwork of different and inconsistent regulation depending upon such factors as the provider, jurisdiction and nature of traffic. To address this inconsistent pattern of regulation, in 2001 the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to consider how to unify the regulation of intercarrier compensation. The FCC received numerous comments on the subject. On March 3, 2005 and again on July 25, 2006, the FCC requested further comment, including both comprehensive proposals and other measures to reform the current intercarrier compensation schemes. On May 5, 2008, during oral argument concerning a mandamus petition filed by Core Communications, Inc. against the FCC, the FCC advised the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit of the FCC Chairman’s intent to attempt to achieve broad-based intercarrier compensation reform within the next six months. On November 5, 2008, the FCC issued a narrow decision addressing only the issue on remand concerning compensation for traffic destined for Internet service providers. FCC efforts to address the broader issues of intercarrier compensation reform, however, did not succeed and it is not clear when or if the FCC will take the broader issue up again. 15 Table of Contents Universal Service Both the FCC and approximately 23 states administer “universal service” funds to provide for affordable local telephone service in rural and high-cost areas and to fund other social programs, such as Internet access to schools and libraries. In 2008, we expensed approximately $39 million related to payments to such funds. There are numerous regulatory and legislative efforts to reform universal service funding requirements and we cannot predict the outcome of these efforts. The Universal Service Administrative Company concluded its audit of Global Crossing Bandwidth, Inc.’s USF payment for calendar year 2004 and concluded that our subsidiary owes an additional $5.6 million. We have appealed the audit findings to the FCC and cannot predict the outcome of this appeal. On April 9, 2008, the FCC issued a Notice of Apparent Liability (“NAL”) proposing a forfeiture of approximately $10.5 million based on certain of our subsidiaries’ apparent failures to make timely and complete contributions to the federal Universal Service Fund and Telecommunications Relay Service Fund. Since that time, we have been engaged in discussions with FCC staff regarding a potential consent decree that would result in cancellation of the NAL, adoption of a voluntary compliance plan, and payment of a voluntary contribution to the United States Treasury. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings—Universal Service Notice of Apparent Liability” for more information regarding this matter. Local Competition The 1996 Act substantially revised the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, in large part to address the subject of local competition. The 1996 Act delegated to the FCC and to the states significant discretion to implement the local competition provisions of the statute and imposed interconnection obligations on LECs, including that they provide unbundled network elements. The regime governing the framework for local competition has changed since the 1996 Act was enacted. The FCC’s February 2003 Triennial Review Order, which revised the unbundling rules, was vacated and remanded in part by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in March 2004. In response, in December 2004 the FCC adopted its Triennial Review Remand Order which significantly restricts the types of facilities that ILECs must unbundle and provide to their local competitors and the circumstances under which those facilities must be unbundled and provided. The prices of the local facilities that we obtain from ILECs will increase as resale or commercial arrangements are substituted for the unbundled network element—platform services that ILECs no longer need to make available to competitors and as special access is substituted for the local loop and transport elements that are no longer subject to mandatory unbundling. On June 16, 2006, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upheld the Triennial Review Remand Order. We cannot predict the outcome of any subsequent FCC proceedings. U.S. State Regulation State regulatory commissions retain jurisdiction over our facilities and services to the extent they are used to provide intrastate communications. We are subject to direct state regulation in most, if not all, states in which we operate. Many states require certification before a company can provide intrastate communications services. We are certified in all states where we have operations and certification is required. Most states require us to file tariffs or price lists setting forth the terms, conditions and prices for services that are classified as intrastate. In some states, our tariff can list a range of prices for particular services. In other states, prices can be set on an individual customer basis. Several states where we do business, however, do not require us to file tariffs. We are not subject to price cap or to rate of return regulation in any state in which we currently provide service. 16 Table of Contents U.S. Local Government Regulation In certain locations, we must obtain local franchises, licenses or other operating rights and street opening and construction permits to install, expand and operate our fiber-optic systems in the public right-of-way. In some of the areas where we provide network services, our subsidiaries pay license or franchise fees based on a percentage of gross revenues or on a per linear foot basis. Regulation in Canada Long distance telecommunications services in Canada are regulated by the Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission (the “CRTC”). Resellers now have interconnection rights and may provide international services to the U.S. by reselling the services provided by the regional telephone companies and by the former monopoly international carrier, Teleglobe Canada. Under current law, the provision of Canadian domestic and international transmission facilities based services remains restricted to carriers majority owned by Canadians, although non-Canadian carriers such as ourselves may own international subsea cables landing in Canada. Competition is permitted in other segments of the Canadian telecommunications market, including the local telecommunications services market, although transmission facilities based CLECs are also subject to the above-described majority Canadian ownership requirements. CLECs may interconnect their networks with those of the ILECs and have access to certain ILEC services on an unbundled basis and, in certain cases, subject to mandatory pricing. In addition, transmission facilities based carriers (but not resellers) are entitled to collocate equipment in ILEC central offices pursuant to terms and conditions of tariffs and intercarrier agreements. The CRTC recently adopted a new policy to deregulate wholesale services over the next five years. It is unclear at this time what, if any, impact this will have on our operations. Regulation in Mexico The Mexican telecommunications industry is primarily regulated by the Ministry of Communications and Transportation (“SCT”) and the Federal Telecommunications Commission (“Cofetel”), an agency within the SCT. Several laws and regulations govern the provision of telecommunications services in Mexico, including the Law of General Means of Communication, the Federal Telecommunications Law (and its 2006 amendment), and the Telecommunications Regulations. Market liberalization began in Mexico with the 1990 privatization of the incumbent telecommunications operator, now known as Teléfonos de México, SAB de CV (“Telmex”). The Mexican market for fixed line domestic and international long distance services opened to competition beginning in 1996, although Telmex remains the leading provider of fixed local and long distance telephone services in Mexico. On January 23, 2008, the Federal Competition Commission initiated an investigation to examine the existence of market power in four segments of the telecommunications market dominated by Telmex. Under the Federal Telecommunications Law and the Telecommunications Regulations, a provider of public telecommunications services must operate under a concession granted by the SCT, and the provision of certain other services likewise requires the issuance of a permit or other approval by the SCT. Our operating entity in Mexico has obtained concessions, permits and authorizations from the Mexican authorities to support its services. European Regulation In connection with the construction and operation of our European network, we obtained telecommunications licenses in all countries where authorization was required for us to construct and operate facilities or provide network services, including voice telephony. Our activities in Europe are subject to regulation by the European Union (“EU”) and national regulatory authorities. The level of regulation and the regulatory obligations and rights that attach to us as an authorized 17 Table of Contents operator in each country vary. In all Member States of the EU, we, as a competitive entrant, are currently considered to lack significant market power in the provision of bandwidth and call origination services, and consequently we are generally subjected to less intrusive regulation than providers that are deemed to possess such power, who are generally incumbents in the countries concerned. In April 2002, the then 15 EU Member States agreed to introduce a harmonized set of telecommunications regulations by July 25, 2003, in accordance with a framework as set out in Directive 2002/21/EC and a package of related Directives. Under the Framework Directive (2002/21/EC), the EU has adopted a revised policy for dealing with the definition and regulation of significant market power. Regulatory remedies are being introduced in due course following a series of national reviews of telecommunications markets defined in accordance with Article 7 of the Framework Directive and Recommendations 2007/879/EC and C(2008)5925. Where a national regulator identifies market dominance that is considered susceptible to ex ante remedies then it is required to impose conditions on the dominant party/ies in order to ensure fair competition. At this time, a number of markets have been reviewed by regulators and ex ante conditions imposed which, in general, facilitate market entry and/or reduce the cost of access to incumbents’ networks. However, a number of jurisdictions have yet to complete their reviews, hence it is not possible to accurately predict what the various remedies may ultimately entail, and their consequential impact on our business. Also included in the package of Directives are measures under the Authorisation Directive (2002/20/EC) (the “Authorisation Directive”) to remove the necessity for telecommunications network operators and service providers to obtain individual licenses and/or authorizations, save for use of scarce resources such as numbering addresses and radio spectrum. In those countries where the national telecommunications laws have been amended in accordance with the obligations under the Authorisation Directive, our licenses have been revoked in favor of a series of statutory rights to own, build and operate networks and to provide services, including voice. The size of the EU increased on May 1, 2004 with the accession of ten additional countries and on January 1, 2007 with the accession of a further two countries. In principle, the EU Regulatory Framework and the package of related Directives apply in such countries with effect from their accession date. Accession negotiations between the EU and several additional candidate countries are presently understood to be underway, signaling a possible further enlargement of the EU at some time in the future. At the present time, not all of the current 27 EU Member States have adopted or correctly adopted all the changes to their national laws to implement the EU’s telecommunications-related Directives. On January 31, 2008, the European Commission published a memorandum indicating that, in total, since the EU telecoms rules entered into force, the Commission has opened proceedings under Article 226 of the EC Treaty for some 95 cases of failure to correctly implement the rules. Since that date, six further cases have been opened by the Commission. These infringement proceedings concern all 27 Member States. Many of the proceedings opened have now been closed while a number of cases are pending before the European Court of Justice. In June 2006, the Commission published new guidelines concerning the way in which Articles 81 and 82 of the EU Treaty (dealing with the anti-trust concept of abuse of dominance) should be interpreted by regulators. On November 13, 2007, the European Commission published proposals for a revision to the current regulatory framework applying to the sector. The proposals consist of the following: • a draft directive amending the Universal Service Directive and the Directive on Privacy in the electronic communications sector (the “citizens rights” directive); • a draft directive amending the Framework Directive, the Access Directive, and the Authorization Directive (the “better regulation” directive); and • a draft regulation establishing a European Electronic Communications Market Authority. 18 Table of Contents These proposals are at an advanced stage, and are being considered by the European Parliament and Council of Ministers. The Commission’s proposals have been subject to change since their publication and various stakeholders, including us, have made representations during the process, both at the EU and national levels. These new regulatory measures will not become effective until such time as may be ultimately agreed by the EU. In the United Kingdom, The Office of Communications (“OFCOM”) has indicated that its policy focus is intended to support the growth of greater competition, innovation and investment certainty. A Strategic Review of the telecoms sector was completed in September 2005 and as a result of this initiative, the incumbent BT has established a separate “access services division” named “Openreach,” which controls and operates the physical network assets making up BT’s local access and backhaul networks. BT has undertaken to supply a range of wholesale products to all communications providers (including its own downstream operations) on the same timescales, terms and conditions (including price) and by the same systems and processes and, although this process has not yet been fully completed, some significant progress has been made towards this end. BT’s compliance with its obligations arising from the 2005 Strategic Review are regularly measured by both OFCOM and BT’s internal Equivalence of Access Board (“EAB”). On December 19 2008, OFCOM published the most recent in a series of 18 detailed revisions to the specific undertakings that were entered into by BT in 2005 to give effect to BT’s functional separation and we have engaged with OFCOM throughout this process OFCOM has also recognized the need to create a new regulated interconnection model as the U.K telecommunications market undergoes a move away from the traditional switched-circuit fixed line networks towards next-generation networks and services based on IP. Work on the development of these new models is ongoing and OFCOM has indicated in its draft Annual Plan for 2009/10 that it intends to develop its policy in this area during the coming year. The effect on us of such an action cannot be accurately predicted. Asian Regulation The status of liberalization of the telecommunications regulatory regimes of the Asian countries in which we operate or intend to operate varies. Some countries allow full competition in the telecommunications sector, while others limit competition for most services. Similarly, some countries in Asia maintain foreign ownership restrictions which limit the amount of foreign direct investment and require foreign companies to seek local joint venture partners. Most of the countries in the region have committed to liberalizing their telecommunications regimes and opening their telecommunications markets to foreign investment as part of the World Trade Organization Agreement on Basic Telecommunications Services, which came into force in February 1998. Additionally, the adoption of the Free Trade Agreement between the U.S. and Singapore in January 2003 established a new standard of liberalization based on bilateral negotiations with the U.S. We cannot predict what effect, if any, this agreement will have on other countries in the region or whether the U.S. will pursue similar agreements with those countries. We also cannot be certain whether this liberalizing trend will continue or accurately predict the pace and scope of liberalization. It is possible that one or more of the countries in which we operate or intend to operate will slow or halt the liberalization of its telecommunications markets. The effect on us of such an action cannot be accurately predicted. The telecommunications regulatory regimes of many Asian countries are in the process of development. Many issues, such as regulation of incumbent providers, interconnection, unbundling of local loops, resale of telecommunications services, offering of voice services and pricing have not been addressed fully or at all. We cannot accurately predict whether or how these issues will be resolved and their impact on our operations in Asia. Latin American Regulation Our MAC, PAC and SAC fiber-optic cable systems connect to Latin America. In connection with the construction of these systems, we have obtained cable landing licenses and/or telecommunications licenses in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela and the U.S. We expect to obtain 19 Table of Contents additional telecommunications authorizations in Latin America in the ordinary course of business, should they be required as a consequence of further network growth and expansion of the regional service portfolio. The status of liberalization of the telecommunications markets of Latin America varies. All of the countries in which we currently operate are members of the World Trade Organization and most have committed to liberalizing their telecommunications markets and lifting foreign ownership restrictions. Some countries now permit competition for all telecommunications facilities and services, while others allow competition for some facilities and services, but restrict competition for other services. Some countries in which we operate currently impose limits on foreign ownership of telecommunications carriers. The telecommunications regulatory regimes of many Latin American countries are in the process of development. Many issues, such as regulation of incumbent providers, interconnection, unbundling of local loops, resale of telecommunications services, and pricing have not been addressed fully or at all. We cannot accurately predict whether or how these issues will be resolved and their impact on our operations in Latin America. Below is a summary of certain of the regulations currently applicable to our Latin American operations, by country. The regulations apply equally to all of Global Crossing’s operating entities within the region. We are in the process of consolidating our “legacy” operating entities in the Latin American region (i.e., those that pre-dated the Impsat acquisition), which are included in our ROW Segment, with the Impsat entities comprising the GC Impsat Segment. Argentina The Argentine telecommunications sector is subject to comprehensive regulation by the Comisión Nacional de Comunicaciones (“National Communications Commission”) and the Secretaría de Comunicaciones (“Secretary of Communications”). The Argentine telecommunications market was opened to competition on November 9, 2000. Following market liberalization, the government has issued a series of regulations to effectuate the transition to competition in telecommunications, including Decree No. 764/00, which establishes rules for the granting of licenses for telecommunications services, interconnection, and the management and control of the radioelectric spectrum. The Decree also established new rules and regulations to promote access to telecommunications services for customers located in high-cost access or maintenance areas or with physical limitations or special social needs. These rules and regulations, effective January 1, 2001, establish that the provision of these services be financed by all telecommunications providers (including us) through a Universal Service Fund, backed by the payment of 1% of each provider’s total revenues for telecommunications services. During the last 5 years, telecommunications companies in Argentina have been subject to increased taxes and fees from both provincial and municipal authorities. While we have challenged the constitutionality of some of these claims, there is no certainty that we will prevail on such challenges. Furthermore, the cost of defending against these claims could be high. Colombia The telecommunications industry in Colombia is subject to regulation by the Colombian Ministry of Communications. Since 1991, the Ministry of Communications has pursued a policy of liberalization and has encouraged joint ventures between public and private telecommunications companies to provide new and improved telecommunications services. 20 Table of Contents Brazil Telecommunications services in Brazil are regulated by the Ministry of Communications, pursuant to Law No. 9,472 of July 16, 1997 (the “General Telecommunications Law”). This law authorized the creation of the Agencia Nacional de Telecomunicações (the “National Telecommunications Agency,” known as “ANATEL”), an independent agency subordinated to the Ministry of Communications that regulates and supervises all aspects of telecommunications services, including the granting of licenses under the General Telecommunications Law. ANATEL enforces the legislative determinations of the Ministry of Communications. ANATEL has generally pursued a policy of market liberalization and supported a competitive telecommunications environment. Ecuador The telecommunications industry in Ecuador is regulated by the Consejo Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (the “National Telecommunications Council”) and the Secretaria Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (the “National Telecommunications Secretary,” known as “SENATEL”) and is under the control and supervision of the Superintendencia de Telecomunicaciones (“Superintendant of Telecommunications”). Peru The telecommunications industry in Peru is regulated by the Supervisory Authority for Private Investment in Telecommunications (“OSIPTEL”) and the Ministry of Transportation and Communications (“MTC”). OSIPTEL is an independent regulatory body attached to the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers. Under Peruvian law, the provision of public telecommunications services requires a concession. The functions related to the issuance of concessions and market access registration and the assignment of the radio spectrum for public telecommunications services are managed by the MTC’s General Directorate of Telecommunications. Since market liberalization became effective in August 1998, there has been no limitation on the issue of concessions, except for services subject to natural limitations on grounds of scarce resources, as in the case of the radio spectrum. Venezuela The Venezuelan telecommunications industry is regulated by the Comisión Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (“CONATEL”), which is ascribed to and under the purview of the Ministry of Infrastructure. Venezuela opened its telecommunications market to competition on November 28, 2000. In 2007, the Venezuelan government nationalized the incumbent telecommunications operator, Compañia Anónima Nacional Teléfonos de Venezuela (“CANTV”). To date, the government has not indicated its intent to expand nationalization within the telecommunications sector. The legacy Global Crossing operating entity in Venezuela has been amalgamated with IMPSAT Venezuela, the operating entity within the GC Impsat Segment. As required by the Venezuelan Telecommunications Law of 2000, IMPSAT Venezuela has timely filed for the administrative title transformation of all of its concessions and licenses. The administrative title transformation is in process and remains pending due to delays attributable to CONATEL. Such delays affect most market operators and has thus far had no impact on IMPSAT Venezuela’s operations. Although three licenses held by IMPSAT Venezuela have expired, CONATEL has authorized it to continue operations while the licenses are transformed. Chile The telecommunications industry in Chile is regulated by the Undersecretariate of Telecommunications, an institution subordinated to the Ministry of Transportation and Telecommunications. 21 Table of Contents In 1978, a new National Policy on Telecommunications was issued which, in its most relevant aspects, called for the development of telecommunications services to be conducted by private institutions through concessions, authorizations, permits and licenses granted by the government. The policy, nonetheless, endorsed a series of regulations aimed at establishing increased technical control over such investments and conferring certain discretionary powers on the government. The policy was formalized through the General Law on Telecommunications approved in 1982, in which free, non-discriminatory access was granted to private firms in the development of the nation’s telecommunications services. This law established responsibilities with respect to telecommunication services, compulsory interconnection between public service licensees and tools for setting telecommunication service tariffs where existing market conditions were deemed insufficient to guarantee a free tariff system. Chile amended its General Law on Telecommunications in 1985 to provide that concessions and permits may be granted without limit with respect to the quantity and type of service and geographic location. The law guarantees interconnections among telecommunications service concessionaires. Chile defines value added services as supplementary services. It is not necessary to have a telecommunications service license to offer supplementary services, although those who provide additional services must comply with the technical standards established by the Department of Telecommunications and obtain an authorization. Panama The telecommunications industry in Panama is regulated by Ente Regulador de los Servicios Públicos, an independent regulatory body. General Law 26 and General Law 31 established the regulatory framework for telecommunications regulation. Liberalization of the market has been on-going, and the incumbent’s official monopoly ended in 2004. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results (Cautionary Statements Under Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) Forward-Looking Statements This annual report on Form 10-K contains certain “forward-looking statements,” as such term is defined in Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These statements set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We have attempted to identify such statements by using words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will,” “could” and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future events or future operating or financial performance or strategies. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: • our services, including the development and deployment of data products and services based on IP and other technologies and strategies to expand our targeted customer base and broaden our sales channels and the opening and expansion of our data center and collocation services; • the operation of our network, including with respect to the development of IP-based services and data center and collocation services; • our liquidity and financial resources, including anticipated capital expenditures, funding of capital expenditures, anticipated levels of indebtedness, and the ability to raise capital through financing activities, including capital leases and similar financings; • trends related to and management’s expectations regarding results of operations, required capital expenditures, integration of acquired businesses, revenues from existing and new lines of business and sales channels, Adjusted Cash EBITDA (as defined in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”), order volumes and cash flows, including but not limited to those statements set forth in Item 7; and • sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties related to our businesses. These are factors that we believe, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by Section 21E of the Exchange Act. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Our forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from current beliefs and expectations. In addition to the risk factors identified under the captions below, the operation and results of our business are subject to risks and uncertainties identified elsewhere in this 23 Table of Contents annual report on Form 10-K as well as general risks and uncertainties such as those relating to general economic conditions and demand for telecommunications services. Risks Related to Liquidity and Financial Resources We face a number of risks related to current global economic conditions and the severe tightening in the global credit markets. Recently, the global economy and capital and credit markets have been experiencing exceptional turmoil and upheaval. Many major economies entered significant recessions in 2008 which continue into 2009. Ongoing concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, volatile energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability, cost and terms credit, consumer and business confidence, substantially increased unemployment and the crisis in the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for both established and emerging economies, including those in which we operate. In the second half of 2008, added concerns fueled by government interventions in financial systems led to increased market uncertainty and instability in both U.S. and international capital and credit markets. These conditions have contributed to economic uncertainty of unprecedented levels. The availability, cost and terms of credit have also been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid markets and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in many cases cease to provide, credit to businesses and consumers. These factors have led to a substantial and continuing decrease in spending by businesses and consumers, and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure spending. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies and prolonged declines in business and consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers, including our ability to refinance maturing debt instruments and to access the capital markets and obtain capital lease financing to meet liquidity needs. This financial crisis may have an impact on our business and financial condition in the following ways as well as others that we currently cannot predict. • Potential risk in refinancing outstanding debts: Although none of our major debt instruments matures until 2011, if the current lack of credit in the global capital markets were to continue, our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness when due could be severely constrained. Any such refinancing could require significantly more expensive interest rates and covenants that restrict our operations to a significantly greater extent. • Negative impacts from increased financial pressures on customers and resellers: Uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions and credit markets may cause consumers, business and governments to defer purchases in response to tighter credit, decreased availability of cash and credit and declining business and consumer confidence, and may affect the solvency of our customers and resellers. Accordingly, future demand for our products and services could differ from our current expectations. Similarly, our customers may experience liquidity issues of their own that adversely affect our ability to collect amounts due from them in a timely fashion, or at all. In addition, if the global economy and credit markets continue to deteriorate and our future sales decline, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely impacted. • Negative impacts from increased financial pressures on our ability to maintain and further enhance our network: We plan to arrange financing with vendors and third parties for a significant portion of the capital expenditures that we plan for 2009 for the maintenance and upgrade of capacity and services our telecommunication systems. The lack of credit in the global capital markets may constrain our ability to obtain such financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. To the extent we are not able to obtain appropriate financing, we may not be able to implement certain of our growth investments budgeted for 2009 and thereby not realize additional higher-margin revenues to support our business. 24 Table of Contents We incurred substantial operating losses in 2008 and will continue to experience negative cash flows in the short term. For each period since inception, we have incurred substantial operating losses. Although we expect our operating results to improve over time, there is no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. In the short term we expect cash provided by operating activities to exceed purchases of property and equipment. This expectation is based in part on arranging financing for such property and equipment from vendors and others in amounts comparable to those arranged in 2008. Our ability to arrange such financings is subject to negotiating acceptable terms from equipment vendors and financing parties. This could prove more difficult given current adverse conditions in the credit markets. If we are unable to arrange such financings, we may not be able to make all necessary capital and other expenditures to run and grow our business, including the expenditures that will be necessary to implement our operational imperatives. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our ability to generate positive cash flow over the long term is predicated on significant revenue growth in our target enterprise, carrier data and indirect sales channel, including economies of scale expected from such growth, and the success of ongoing cost reduction initiatives. We can provide no assurances that we will be successful in these regards. If our cash flows do not improve, we would need to arrange financing facilities in order to continue as a going concern. We may be unable to arrange financing facilities on acceptable terms or at all. Current adverse conditions in global capital and credit markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms or at all. We may not be able to achieve anticipated economies of scale. We expect that economies of scale will allow us to grow revenues while incurring incremental costs that are proportionately lower than those applicable to our existing business. If the increased costs required to support our revenue growth turn out to be greater than anticipated, we may be unable to improve our profitability and/or cash flows even if revenue growth goals are achieved. The current downturn in the world economy could temper our growth, although the value we offer prospective customers could attract business in a cost-saving environment. Improvements in our cost structure in the short term become more difficult as the amount of potential savings decreases due to the success of past savings initiatives. Cost savings initiatives put a strain on our existing employees and make it more challenging to foster an engaged and enthusiastic workforce. Customer service, which is a critical component of our value proposition, could suffer if employee engagement were to deteriorate. The sale of IRUs and similar prepayments for services are an important source of cash flows for us. The sale of IRUs and similar prepayments for services are an important source of cash flows for us, representing tens of million of dollars of cash in most quarters. If customers’ buying patterns were to change such that those traditionally buying IRUs were to switch to monthly payment plans, our liquidity would be adversely affected. The current downturn in the world economy and tightening of global credit markets could cause customers to change their buying patterns away from prepaid services and IRUs in order to conserve cash. In addition, the large dollar amounts and long sales cycles typically associated with IRU sales increase the volatility of our quarter-to-quarter cash flow results. Access vendors could force us to accelerate payments to them, which would adversely impact our working capital and liquidity. Cost of access represents our single largest expense and gives rise to material current liabilities. In the past, certain telecommunications carriers from which we purchase access services demanded that we pay for access 25 Table of Contents services on a timelier basis, which resulted in increased demands on our liquidity. If such demands were to continue to a greater degree than anticipated, or if access vendors were to insist on significant deposits to secure our access payment obligations, we could be prevented from meeting our cash flow projections and our long-term liquidity requirements. The current downturn in the world economy and tightening of global credit markets could cause access vendors to insist upon timelier payment or the provision of security deposits. The covenants in our debt instruments limit our financial and operational flexibility. GCL and numerous of its subsidiaries have material indebtedness outstanding under the following debt instruments (collectively, the “Principal Debt Instruments”): • GCL’s Credit and Guaranty Agreement dated as of May 9, 2007 under which Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. acts as administrative and collateral agent for a group of lenders who made five-year term loans aggregating $350 million in May and June of 2007 (the “Term Loan Agreement”); • GCL’s $144 million aggregate original principal amount of 5.0% convertible senior notes due 2011 (the “5% Convertible Notes”); • GCUK’s $200 million and 157 million pounds sterling aggregate principal amount (approximately $512 million combined) of senior secured notes due 2014 (the “GCUK Notes”); and • The $225 million aggregate original principal amount of GC Impsat Notes due 2017. The Principal Debt Instruments generally contain covenants and events of default that are customary for high-yield debt and senior secured credit facilities, including limitations on: • incurring or guaranteeing additional indebtedness; • dividend and other payments to holders of equity and subordinated debt; • investments or other restricted payments; • asset sales, consolidations, and mergers; • creating or assuming liens; and • transactions with affiliates. These covenants impose significant restrictions on the ability of entities in any one of our operating segments from making intercompany funds transfers to entities in any other segment. In addition, the Term Loan Agreement includes financial maintenance covenants requiring our ROW Segment to maintain a minimum combined cash balance at all times and requiring us to maintain a maximum ratio of consolidated debt to a designated measure of consolidated earnings. The Term Loan Agreement also includes a covenant requiring us to prepay the term loan in full at 102% of the principal amount (101% if after June 1, 2009) in the event of a “Change of Control” (as defined in the Term Loan Agreement). Additionally, the certificate of designations governing our 2% Cumulative Preferred Shares (the “GCL Preferred Stock”) requires the holder’s approval for certain major corporate actions of GCL and/or its subsidiaries. See Item 5, “Market for Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters—Description of Global Crossing Equity Securities.” Most of our assets have been pledged to secure the indebtedness under certain of our Principal Debt Instruments, as well as certain lease facilities secured by the assets being leased (the “Capital Lease Facilities”). A failure to comply with the covenants contained in our Principal Debt Instruments or the Capital Lease Facilities could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in an acceleration of all such debts, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, certain of our capital lease agreements contain non-financial covenants which require 26 Table of Contents specific tracking and reporting procedures for the physical location of the leased assets. The failure to meet these covenants allows the lessor to accelerate payments under the lease. We have in the past failed to meet these covenants. At December 31, 2008, these non-financial covenants have not been completely satisfied for certain debt and lease agreements representing $2 million of indebtedness. Such indebtedness was classified as current liabilities at December 31, 2008. If the indebtedness under any of our Principal Debt Instruments or Capital Lease Facilities were to be accelerated, we would have to raise funds from alternative sources, which may not be available on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. Moreover, a default by any of our subsidiaries under any capital lease obligation or debt obligation totaling more than $2.5 million, as well as the bankruptcy or insolvency of any of our subsidiaries, could trigger cross-default provisions under certain of our debt instruments. For a further discussion of these issues and our indebtedness, please see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Indebtedness.” Our international corporate structure limits the availability of our consolidated cash resources for intercompany funding purposes and reduces our financial restructuring flexibility. As a holding company, all of our revenues are generated by our subsidiaries and substantially all of our assets are owned by our subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent upon dividends and inter-company transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other payment obligations. Our subsidiaries are incorporated and operate in various jurisdictions throughout the world. Some of our subsidiaries have cash on hand that exceeds their immediate requirements but that cannot be distributed or loaned to us or our other subsidiaries to fund our or their operations due to contractual restrictions (such as those described in the immediately preceding risk factor) or legal constraints related to the lack of retained earnings, the solvency of such entities or other local law restrictions (e.g., restrictions related to foreign exchange controls or transfer approvals). These restrictions, which apply to most of our subsidiaries given their history of operating losses, could cause us or certain of our subsidiaries to become and remain illiquid while other subsidiaries have sufficient liquidity to meet their liquidity needs. Also see “—We are exposed to significant currency exchange rate risks and our net loss may suffer due to currency translations,” below, for a discussion of important exchange rate and expatriation risks involving our Venezuelan and other subsidiaries. We cannot predict our future tax liabilities. If we become subject to increased levels of taxation or if tax contingencies are resolved adversely, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Due to the international nature of our operations, we are subject to multiple sets of complex and varying tax laws and rules. We cannot predict the amount of future tax liabilities to which we may become subject. Any increase in the amount of taxation incurred as a result of our operations or due to legislative or regulatory changes could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we believe that our current tax provisions are reasonable and appropriate, we cannot be assured that these items will be settled for the amounts accrued or that additional exposures will not be identified in the future. We have material tax-related contingent liabilities that are difficult to predict or quantify. See “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 and Note 22, “Commitments, Contingencies and Other” to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Operations Our revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Our revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. The primary factors, among other things, that may affect our results of operations include the following: • changes in pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • general economic conditions as well as those specific to our industry; • demand for our higher margin services; • costs of acquisitions, including the integration of such acquisitions; and • changes in regulations and regulatory rulings. A delay in generating revenue or the timing of recognizing revenue and expenses could cause significant variations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. It is possible that in some future quarters our results may be below analysts and investors expectations. Our rights to the use of the fiber that make up our network may be affected by the financial health of our fiber providers. The majority of our North American network and some of the other transmission facilities comprising our global network are held by us through long-term leases or IRU agreements with various companies that provide us access to fiber owned by them. A bankruptcy or financial collapse of one of these fiber providers could result in a loss of our rights under such leases and agreements with the provider, which in turn could have a negative impact on the integrity of our network and ultimately on our results of operations. To our knowledge, the rights of the holder of such rights in strands of fiber in the event of bankruptcy have not been specifically addressed by the judiciary at the state or federal level in the U.S. or in most of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and, therefore, our rights with respect to dark fiber agreements under such circumstances are unclear. We may not be able to continue to connect our network to incumbent carriers’ networks or maintain Internet peering arrangements on favorable terms. We must be party to interconnection agreements with incumbent carriers and certain independent carriers in order to connect our customers to the PSTN. If we are unable to renegotiate or maintain interconnection agreements in all of our markets on favorable terms, it could adversely affect our ability to provide services in the affected markets. In Europe, although certain rights to interconnect with other networks are subject to legal and regulatory protection, new IP-based networking technologies are becoming more generally adopted within the industry and new commercial and charging models are being developed for interworking between these networks. The extent to which such new models may affect our business is currently uncertain. Peering agreements with Internet service providers allow us to access the Internet and exchange transit for free with these providers. Depending on the relative size of the carriers involved, these exchanges may be made without settlement charge. Recently, many Internet service providers that previously offered peering have reduced or eliminated peering relationships or are establishing new, more restrictive criteria for peering and an increasing number of these service providers are seeking to impose charges for transit. Increases in costs associated with Internet and exchange transit could have a material adverse effect on our margins for our products that require Internet access. We may not be able to renegotiate or maintain peering arrangements on favorable terms, which would impair our growth and performance. 28 Table of Contents The Network Security Agreement imposes significant requirements on us. A violation of the agreement could have severe consequences. The Network Security Agreement imposes significant requirements on us related to information storage and management; traffic routing and management; physical, logical, and network security arrangements; personnel screening and training; corporate governance practices; and other matters. While we expect to comply fully with our obligations under the Network Security Agreement, it is impossible to eliminate completely the risk of a violation of the agreement. The consequences of a violation of the Network Security Agreement could be severe, potentially including the revocation of our FCC licenses in the U.S., which would result in the cessation of our U.S. operations and would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. It is expensive and difficult to switch new customers to our network, and lack of cooperation of incumbent carriers can slow the new customer connection process. It is expensive and difficult for us to switch a new customer to our network because: • we usually charge the potential customer certain one-time installation fees, and, although the fees may be less than the cost to install a new customer, they may act as a deterrent to becoming our customer; and • we require cooperation from the incumbent carrier in instances where there is no direct connection between the customer and our network, which can complicate and add to the time that it takes to provision a new customer’s service. Many of our principal competitors, the domestic and international incumbent carriers, are already established providers of local telephone services to all or virtually all telephone subscribers within their respective service areas. Their physical connections from their premises to those of their customers are expensive and difficult to duplicate. To complete the new customer provisioning process, we rely on the incumbent carrier to process certain information. The incumbent carriers have a financial interest in retaining their customers, which could reduce their willingness to cooperate with our new customer provisioning requests, thereby adversely impacting our ability to compete and grow revenues. Further consolidation of incumbent carriers with other telecommunications service providers may make these problems more acute. The operation, administration, maintenance and repair of our systems require significant expenses and are subject to risks that could lead to disruptions in our services and the failure of our systems to operate as intended for their full design life. Each of our systems is subject to the risks inherent in large-scale, complex fiber-optic telecommunications systems. The operation, administration, maintenance and repair of our systems require the coordination and integration of sophisticated and highly specialized hardware and software technologies and equipment located throughout the world and require significant operating and capital expenses. Our systems may not continue to function as expected in a cost-effective manner. For example, as our network elements become obsolete or reach their design life capacity, our operating expenses could significantly increase depending on the nature and extent of repairs or replacements. The failure of the hardware or software to function as required could render a cable system unable to perform at design specifications. Interruptions in service or performance problems, for whatever reason, could undermine confidence in our services and cause us to lose customers or make it more difficult to attract new ones. In particular, a failure of our operations support systems could adversely affect our ability to process orders and provision sales, and to bill for services efficiently and accurately, all of which could cause us to suffer customer dissatisfaction, loss of business, loss of revenue or the inability to add customers on a timely basis, any of which would adversely affect our revenues. In addition, because many of our services are critical to our customers’ businesses, a significant 29 Table of Contents interruption in service could result in lost profits or other loss to customers. Although we attempt to disclaim liability for these losses in our service agreements, a court might not enforce a limitation on liability under certain conditions, which could expose us to financial loss. In addition, we often provide customers with guaranteed service level commitments. If we are unable to meet these guaranteed service level commitments for whatever reason, we may be obligated to provide our customers with credits, generally in the form of free service for a short period of time, which could negatively affect our operating results. Recent capital expenditure levels may not be sustainable. While capital expenditures have remained relatively stable at levels significantly below those prevailing prior to our bankruptcy reorganization, such levels may not be sustainable in the future, particularly as our business continues to grow. Our ability to fund future capital expenditures may be limited by our ability to generate sufficient cash flow, including raising any necessary financings, which could prove to be difficult if the adverse conditions in the credit markets continue. Intellectual property and proprietary rights of others could prevent us from using necessary technology. While we do not believe that there exists any technology patented by others, or other intellectual property owned by others, that is necessary for us to provide our services and that is not now subject to a license allowing us to use it, from time to time we receive claims from third parties in this regard and there can be no assurances as to our ability to defend against those claims successfully. If such intellectual property is owned by others and not licensed by us, we would have to negotiate a license for the use of that intellectual property. We may not be able to negotiate such a license at a price that is acceptable or at all. This could force us to cease offering products and services incorporating such intellectual property, thereby adversely affecting operating results. We have substantial international operations and face political, legal, tax, regulatory and other risks from our operations in foreign jurisdictions. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from international operations and have substantial physical assets in several jurisdictions along our routes, including countries in Latin America, Asia and Europe. In addition, we lease capacity and obtain services from carriers in those and other regions. As a result our business is subject to particular risks from operating in some of these areas, including: • uncertain and rapidly changing political, regulatory and economic conditions, including the possibility of civil unrest, vandalism affecting cable assets, terrorism, armed conflict or the seizure or nationalizing of private property; • unexpected changes in regulatory environments and trade barriers; • interruptions to essential energy inputs; • exchange and/or transfer restrictions; • direct and indirect price controls; • cancellation of contract rights; • delays or denial of governmental approvals; • exposure to new or different accounting, legal, tax and regulatory standards; • burdensome tax, customs, duties or regulatory assessments based on new or differing interpretations of law or regulations; and • difficulties in staffing and managing operations consistently through our several operating areas. 30 Table of Contents These risks have increased significantly as a result of our acquisition of the Latin American operations of Impsat. In addition, managing operations in multiple jurisdictions may place further strain on our ability to manage growth. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), and our failure to comply with the laws and regulations thereunder could result in penalties which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and/or other benefits. Although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure that the Company, its employees and agents comply with the FCPA, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will work effectively all of the time or protect us against liability under the FCPA for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries with respect to our business or any businesses that we acquire. We operate in a number of jurisdictions that pose a high risk of potential FCPA violations. In May 2007, we acquired Impsat, which was also subject to the FCPA prior to the acquisition. As described in “Additional Information Regarding Impsat” in Item 9A, the facts developed in our review of certain payments made by Impsat employees to government officials and foreign government proceedings concerning Impsat personnel show that: first, although Impsat had policies in place prior to the May 9, 2007 acquisition relating to FCPA compliance and contracting with third-party agents, those policies were not implemented; second, Impsat’s documentation relating to third-party agents and certain government contracts was not sufficient; third, the corporate environment at Impsat did not reflect a sufficient focus by senior management on promotion of, and compliance by the company with, these policies. As previously disclosed, we conducted a review of certain agents, government contracts, and potential unauthorized payments in Latin American countries. That review is now substantially complete. We also brought these matters to the attention of government authorities in the U.S., including the Securities and Exchange Commission, which has commenced a preliminary inquiry into the matter. We are cooperating with that inquiry which may result in legal action. At this point we are unable to predict the duration, scope or result of that inquiry. Failure to comply with the FCPA, other anti-corruption laws and other laws governing the conduct of business with government entities (including local laws) could lead to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures (including further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies, and controls and potential personnel changes and/or disciplinary actions), any of which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Any investigation of any potential violations of the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws by U.S. or foreign authorities also could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to significant currency exchange rate risks and our net loss may suffer due to currency translations. Certain of our current and prospective customers derive their revenue in currencies other than U.S. dollars but are invoiced by us in U.S. dollars. The obligations of customers with revenue in foreign currencies may be subject to unpredictable and indeterminate increases in the event that such currencies depreciate in value relative to the U.S. dollar. Furthermore, such customers may become subject to exchange control regulations restricting the conversion of their revenue currencies into U.S. dollars. In either event, the affected customers may not be able to pay us in U.S. dollars. In addition, where we issue invoices for our services in currencies other than U.S. dollars, our operating results may suffer due to currency translations in the event that such currencies depreciate relative to the U.S. dollar and we cannot or do not elect to enter into currency hedging arrangements in respect of those payment obligations. Declines in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our ability to market our services to customers whose revenues are denominated in those currencies. Commencing in September 2008, the U.S. Dollar has appreciated considerably against certain foreign currencies in which we conduct a significant portion of our business, including the British Pound Sterling, the Euro and the Brazilian Real. This appreciation adversely impacts consolidated revenue. Since we tend to incur 31 Table of Contents costs in the same currency in which we realize revenue, the impact on operating income and operating cash flow is largely mitigated. However, if the U.S. Dollar trades at the levels in effect at the end of the fiscal year or continues to appreciate, future revenues, operating income and operating cash flows will be materially affected. In addition, the appreciation of the U.S. Dollar relative to foreign currencies reduces the U.S. Dollar value of cash balances held in those currencies. Certain Latin American economies have experienced shortages in foreign currency reserves and have adopted restrictions on the ability to expatriate local earnings and convert local currencies into U.S. dollars. Any such shortages or restrictions may limit or impede our ability to transfer or to convert such currencies into U.S. dollars and to expatriate such funds for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on our indebtedness. These restrictions have a significantly greater impact on us and on our ability to service our debt as a result of the Impsat acquisition. In addition, currency devaluations in one country may have adverse effects in another country. For example, in 2001 and 2002, Argentina imposed exchange controls and transfer restrictions substantially limiting the ability of companies to make payments abroad. While these restrictions have been substantially eased, Argentina may tighten exchange controls or transfer restrictions in the future to prevent capital flight, counter a significant depreciation of the peso or address other unforeseen circumstances. In Venezuela, the official bolivares-U.S. dollar exchange rate established by the Venezuelan Central Bank and the Venezuelan Ministry of Finance attributes to the bolivar a value that is significantly greater than the value prevailing on the parallel market. The official rate is the rate used for recording the assets, liabilities and transactions for our Venezuelan subsidiary. Moreover, the conversion of bolivares into foreign currencies is limited by the current exchange control regime. Accordingly, the acquisition of foreign currency by Venezuelan companies to honor foreign debt, pay dividends or otherwise expatriate capital is subject to registration and subject to a process of application and approval by the Comisión de Administración de Divisas and to the availability of foreign currency within the guidelines set forth by the National Executive Power for the allocation of foreign currency. Such approvals have become less forthcoming over time, resulting in a significant buildup of excess cash in our Venezuelan subsidiaries and a significant increase in our exchange rate and exchange control risks. Many of our most important government customers have the right to terminate their contracts with us if a change of control occurs or to reduce the services they purchase from us. Various agencies of the U.K. Government together represented approximately 47% of the GCUK Segment’s revenues in 2008. Many of GCUK’s government contracts contain broad change of control provisions that permit the customer to terminate the contract if GCUK undergoes a change of control. A termination in many instances gives rise to other rights of the government customer, including, in some cases, the right to purchase some of GCUK’s assets used in servicing those contracts. Some change of control provisions may be triggered when any lender (other than a bank lender in the normal course of business) or a noteholder or group of noteholders would have the right to control GCUK or the majority of GCUK’s assets upon any event, including upon bankruptcy. If GCUK’s noteholders have the right to control GCUK or the majority of GCUK’s assets upon such event, it could be deemed to be a change of control of GCUK. Similarly, if ST Telemedia’s ownership interest in Global Crossing falls below certain levels, it could be deemed to be an indirect change of control of GCUK. In addition, most of GCUK’s government contracts do not include significant minimum usage guarantees. Thus, the applicable customers could simply choose not to use GCUK’s services and move to another telecommunications provider. If any of GCUK’s significant government contracts were terminated as a result of a change of control or otherwise, or if the applicable customers were to significantly reduce the services that they purchase under these contracts, we could experience a material and adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition. 32 Table of Contents Risks Related to Competition and Our Industry The prices that we charge for our services have been decreasing, and we expect that such decreases will continue over time. We expect overall price erosion in our industry to continue at varying rates based on our service portfolio and reflective of marketplace demand and competition relative to existing capabilities and availability. Accordingly, our historical revenues are not indicative of future revenues based on comparable traffic volumes. If the prices for our services decrease for whatever reason and we are unable to increase profitable sales volumes through additional services or otherwise or correspondingly reduce operational costs, our operating results would be adversely affected. Similarly, future price decreases could be greater than we are anticipating. Technological advances and regulatory changes are eroding traditional barriers between formerly distinct telecommunications markets, which could increase the competition we face and put downward pressure on prices. New technologies, such as VoIP, and regulatory changes are blurring the distinctions between traditional and emerging telecommunications markets. As a result, a competitor in any of our business areas could potentially compete in our other business areas. We face competition in each of our markets from the incumbent carrier in that market and from more recent market entrants. In addition, we could face competition from other companies, such as other competitive carriers, cable television companies, microwave carriers, wireless telephone system operators and private networks built by large end-users or municipalities. The introduction of new technologies may reduce the cost of services similar to those that we plan to provide and create significant new competitors with superior cost structures. If we are not able to compete effectively with any of these industry participants, or if this competition places excessive downward pressure on prices, our operating results would be adversely affected. In the U.K., OFCOM is encouraging new operators to build their own infrastructures to compete with BT. At the same time, BT is constructing a new, IP based network which it refers to as a “21st Century” network. At present, it is not clear how operators will connect with this network. There are currently no proposals as to how and at what level BT will charge for access to the network. Regulation has historically provided for the expansion of competition in the marketplace and the subsequent lowering of tariffs charged across the industry. However, there is no way to know with certainty what regulatory actions OFCOM and other governmental and regulatory agencies may take in the future. Individually and collectively, these matters could have negative effects on our U.K. business, which could materially and adversely affect our consolidated business, operations and financial condition. Many of our competitors have superior resources, which could place us at a cost and price disadvantage. Many of our existing and potential competitors have significant competitive advantages, including greater market presence, name recognition and financial, technological and personnel resources, superior engineering and marketing capabilities, more ubiquitous network reach, and significantly larger installed customer bases. As a result, many of our competitors can raise capital at a lower cost than we can, and they may be able to adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities (including regulatory changes) more readily, and devote greater resources to the development, marketing and sale of products and services than we can. Also, our competitors’ greater brand name recognition may require us to price our services at lower levels in order to win business. Our competitors’ financial advantages may give them the ability to reduce their prices for an extended period of time if they so choose. Many of these advantages are expected to increase with the trend toward consolidation by large industry participants. 33 Table of Contents Our selection of technology could prove to be incorrect, ineffective or unacceptably costly, which would limit our ability to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs, emerging competition and frequent new product and service introductions. The future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to adapt to these factors in a timely and cost-effective manner. If we do not replace or upgrade technology and equipment that becomes obsolete, or if the technology choices we make prove to be incorrect, ineffective or unacceptably costly, we will be unable to compete effectively because we will not be able to meet the expectations of our customers, which would cause our results to suffer. Our operations are subject to regulation in each of the countries in which we operate and require us to obtain and maintain a number of governmental licenses and permits. If we fail to comply with those regulatory requirements or obtain and maintain those licenses and permits, including payment of related fees, if any, we may not be able to conduct our business. Moreover, those regulatory requirements could change in a manner that significantly increases our costs or otherwise adversely affects our operations. In the ordinary course of constructing our networks and providing our services we are required to obtain and maintain a variety of telecommunications and other licenses and authorizations in the countries in which we operate, as well as rights-of-way from utilities, railroads, incumbent carriers and other persons. We also must comply with a variety of regulatory obligations. Our failure to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, authorizations and rights-of-way, or to comply with the obligations imposed upon license holders including the payment of fees, in one or more countries, may result in sanctions or additional costs, including the revocation of authority to provide services in one or more countries. Our operations around the world are subject to regulation at the regional level (e.g., European Union), the national level (e.g., the FCC) and, in many cases, at the state, provincial, and local levels. The regulation of telecommunications networks and services around the world varies widely. In some countries, the range of services that we are legally permitted to provide may be limited. In other countries, existing telecommunications legislation is in the process of development, is unclear or inconsistent, or is applied in an unequal or discriminatory fashion, or inadequate judicial, regulatory or other forums are available to address these inadequacies or disputes. Our inability or failure to comply with the telecommunications laws and regulations of one or more of the countries in which we operate could result in the temporary or permanent suspension of operations in one or more countries. We also may be prohibited from entering certain countries at all or from providing all of our services in one or more countries. In addition, many of the countries in which we operate are conducting regulatory or other proceedings that will affect the implementation of their telecommunications legislation. We cannot be certain of the outcome of these proceedings. These proceedings may affect the manner in which we are permitted to provide our services in these countries as well as the level of fees and taxes payable to the government, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may adversely affect the financial markets and our business and operations. Significant terrorist attacks against the U.S., the U.K. or other countries in which we operate are possible. It is possible that our physical facilities or network control systems could be the target of such attacks or that such attacks could impact other telecommunications companies or infrastructure or the Internet in a manner that disrupts our operations. Terrorist attacks (or threats of attack) also could lead to volatility or illiquidity in world financial markets and could otherwise adversely affect the economy. These events could adversely affect our business and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms. In addition, it is becoming increasingly difficult and expensive to obtain adequate insurance for losses due to terrorist attacks. Uninsured losses as a result of such attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 34 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock We have a very substantial overhang of common stock and a majority shareholder that owns a substantial portion of common stock and securities convertible into our common stock. Future sales of our common stock could cause substantial dilution and future acquisitions by our majority shareholder will decrease the liquidity of our common stock, each of which may negatively affect the market price of our shares and impact our ability to raise capital. As of February 17, 2009, there were 56,722,420 shares of our common stock outstanding, 18,000,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon the conversion of our outstanding convertible preferred stock and 6,255,440 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of our 5% Convertible Notes. We also have a significant number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding stock options and vesting of unvested restricted stock units (see Item 5, “Market for Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters—Equity Compensation Plan Information”). As of February 17, 2009, STT Crossing, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ST Telemedia, beneficially owned over 63% of our capital stock. Although the shares beneficially owned by STT Crossing are not freely transferable under the Securities Act, ST Telemedia has the contractual right to require us to register sales of such restricted stock at any time. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock into the market, the availability of shares of common stock for future sale, or any acquisition of common shares by ST Telemedia and its affiliates will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued upon the exercise of stock options or conversion of any convertible securities), the purchase of a substantial amount of common shares by our affiliates, or the perception that such sales or acquisitions could occur, may materially and adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and impact our ability to raise capital. A large number of freely tradable shares of our common stock will be paid to employees in 2009 in connection with incentive compensation arrangements, and sales of such shares could significantly affect the market value of our common stock, particularly in the short term. We expect to pay an aggregate of approximately 5.16 million freely tradable shares of our common stock to our employees in 2009 in connection with incentive compensation arrangements, a portion of which will be withheld to cover tax withholding obligations. Of these shares, 4.73 million shares are being paid in connection with our 2008 bonus program, of which 1.38 million shares are expected to be paid on March 18, 2009, 161,000 shares are expected to be paid on March 30, 2009, and 3.19 million shares are expected to be paid on April 8, 2009, in each case a portion of which will be withheld to cover tax withholding obligations (approximately 3.1 million shares will be paid after tax withholding obligations). The remainder of the shares are being paid to employees as restricted stock units previously granted to them vest in 2009. The average daily trading volume of our shares from January 2, 2009 to February 17, 2009 was approximately 158,000 shares. Sales of a significant portion of the incentive compensation shares would be difficult for the market to absorb and could significantly depress our stock price, especially in the short term. Although we have elected to fund the tax withholding for payments relating to our 2008 bonus program by withholding shares and paying the tax with Company cash, we may not do so for share payments relating to the vesting of remaining restricted stock units in 2009. As a result, approximately one-third of the shares being paid in connection with such vesting events may be sold in the open market promptly upon payout in order to satisfy tax withholding obligations. This could create downward pressure on our stock price in the short term at the time of such sales. Federal law generally prohibits more than 25% of our capital stock to be owned by foreign persons. Ownership of our common stock is governed in part by the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. Other than ownership by ST Telemedia and its affiliates, which cannot exceed 66.25% without prior FCC approval, foreign ownership of our capital stock (i.e., total equity interests held by non-U.S. persons) generally 35 Table of Contents cannot exceed 25% without prior FCC approval. Although we monitor foreign ownership in our capital stock, we cannot necessarily detect or control it and could be subject to governmental penalties if trading in our capital stock resulted in foreign ownership in excess of 25% without prior FCC approval. ST Telemedia is our majority stockholder. A subsidiary of ST Telemedia owns over 63% of GCL’s outstanding capital stock. As a result, ST Telemedia has the power to elect the majority of GCL’s directors. Under applicable law, GCL’s articles of association and bye-laws and the certificate of designations for GCL’s preferred stock, certain actions cannot be taken without the approval of holders of a majority of our voting stock including, without limitation, mergers, certain acquisitions and dispositions, issuances of additional equity securities (with certain enumerated exceptions), incurrences of indebtedness above specified amounts, the making of capital expenditures in excess of specified amounts, and amendments to our articles of association and bye-laws. GCL’s bye-laws include significant additional corporate governance rights of ST Telemedia. These rights effectively dilute the rights of other shareholders. A sale by ST Telemedia of a significant portion of its shareholdings in us could trigger contractual provisions tied to a change in control of our company. For example, a change in control could result in the termination of significant contracts with U.K. government customers, the requirement that we offer to purchase the GCUK Notes at a price equal to 101% of their outstanding principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest and the 5% Convertible Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes plus accrued and unpaid interest, and the acceleration of the vesting of stock options and other incentive compensation awards granted to our directors and employees. Economic and political conditions in Latin America pose numerous risks to our operations. As a result of the completion of our acquisition of Impsat, our business operations are significantly more dependent on the Latin American region. As events in the Latin American region have demonstrated, negative economic or political developments in one country in the region can lead to or exacerbate economic or political instability elsewhere in the region. Furthermore, events in recent years in other developing markets have placed pressures on the stability of the currencies of a number of countries in Latin America, including Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Venezuela. Latin American countries have historically experienced uneven periods of economic growth, as well as recession, periods of high inflation and economic instability. Certain countries have experienced severe economic crises, which may still have future effects. As a result, governments may not have the financial resources necessary to implement reforms and foster growth. While certain areas in the Latin American region have experienced economic growth, this recovery remains fragile. Pressures on local currencies are likely to have an adverse effect on our customers. Volatility in regional currencies and capital markets could also have an adverse effect on our ability and that of our customers to gain access to international capital markets for necessary financing, refinancing and expatriation of earnings. In addition, any changes to the political and economic conditions in certain Latin American countries could materially and adversely impact our future business, operations, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in January 2007, the Venezuelan National Assembly issued an Enabling Law allowing the President of Venezuela to carry out the nationalization of certain businesses in the electricity and energy sectors, as well as Venezuela’s largest telecommunications company, Compañía Anónima Nacional Teléfonos de Venezuela (“CANTV”). CANTV was nationalized in the same year. A statement from the Venezuelan minister of telecommunications and director of the Comisión Nacional de Telecomunicaciones, the country’s telecommunications regulatory authority, has indicated that the nationalization of CANTV does not imply the nationalization of the telecommunications sector as a whole. However, there can be no assurance that such nationalization plans will not also extend to other businesses in the telecommunications sector, including our business. The government has also announced plans to modify the telecommunications law, and we cannot predict the impact of such amendments to our business. In addition, a referendum held on February 15, 2009 approved an amendment to the nation’s constitution, removing presidential term limits. 36 Table of Contents Inflation and certain government measures to curb inflation in some Latin American countries may have adverse effects on their economies, our business and our operations. Some Latin American countries have historically experienced high rates of inflation. Inflation and some measures implemented to curb inflation have had significant negative effects on the economies of these countries. Governmental actions taken in an effort to curb inflation, coupled with speculation about possible future actions, have contributed to economic uncertainty at times in most Latin American countries. These countries may experience high levels of inflation in the future that could lead to further government intervention in the economy, including the introduction of government policies that could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if any of these countries experience high rates of inflation, we may not be able to adjust the price of our services sufficiently to offset the effects of inflation on our cost structures. A high inflation environment would also have negative effects on the level of economic activity and employment and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Other Risks We are exposed to significant contingent liabilities, including those related to Impsat, that could result in material losses that we have not reserved against. Included in “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 and Note 22, “Commitments, Contingencies and Other” to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K, are descriptions of certain important contingent liabilities. If one or more of these contingent liabilities were to be resolved in a manner adverse to us, we could suffer losses that are material to our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have not established reserves for many of these contingent liabilities. Moreover, as described in “Legal Proceedings” and in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements, certain of these contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in addition to the effect of any potential monetary judgment or sanction against us. Assets and entities that we have acquired from Impsat may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have no recourse, or only limited recourse. In general, the representations and warranties provided by Impsat under its purchase agreement do not survive the closing of the transaction. As a result, we will not be able to recover any amounts with respect to losses due to breaches by Impsat of its representations and warranties. The total amount of costs and expenses that may be incurred with respect to liabilities associated with the acquisition may exceed our expectations, plus we may experience other unanticipated adverse effects, all of which may adversely affect our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. Our real estate restructuring reserve represents a material liability, the calculation of which involves significant estimation. As of December 31, 2008, our real estate restructuring reserve aggregated $107 million of continuing building lease obligations and broker commissions, offset by anticipated receipts of $43 million from existing subleases and $50 million from subleases projected to be entered into in the future. Although we believe these estimates to be reasonable, actual sublease receipts could turn out to be materially different than we have estimated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 37 Table of Contents 