ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors, as well as, factors described elsewhere in the Form 10-K, or in other filings by Avalon with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could adversely affect Avalon’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Other factors not presently known to us or that we presently believe are not material could also affect our business operations and financial results. Voting Control by Management The holders of the Avalon Class B Common Stock (which has ten votes per share), consisting principally of the management of Avalon, have approximately 66 percent of the aggregate voting power of the outstanding Avalon Common Stock. Thus, the holders of the Avalon Class A Common Stock (which has one vote per share) will not, either alone or acting collectively, be able to elect a majority of the members of Avalon’s Board of Directors (the “Avalon Board”) or control many corporate actions. However, the holders of the Avalon Class A Common Stock, voting as a separate class, have the right to elect the number of directors equal to at least 25 percent of the total Board of Directors of Avalon until the outstanding Avalon Class B Common Stock constitutes less than 50 percent of the total voting power of the outstanding Avalon Common Stock, after which time the holders of the Avalon Class A and Class B Common Stock will vote as a single class for the election of directors and all matters presented for a vote to the shareholders. The holders of a majority of all outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, voting as separate classes, must also approve amendments to the Articles of Incorporation that adversely affect the shares of their class. Each share of Class B Common Stock is convertible, at any time, at the option of the shareholder, into one share of Class A Common Stock. Shares of Class B Common Stock are also automatically converted into shares of Class A Common Stock on the transfer of such shares to any person other than Avalon, another holder of Class B Common Stock or a Permitted Transferee, as defined in Avalon’s Articles of Incorporation. Certain Anti-Takeover Provisions of Articles of Incorporation, Code of Regulations and Ohio Law The Articles of Incorporation and Code of Regulations of Avalon, as well as, Ohio statutory law, contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging an acquisition of control of Avalon not approved by the Avalon Board. Such provisions may also have the effect of discouraging third parties from making proposals involving an acquisition or change of control of Avalon, even though such proposals, if made, might be considered desirable by a majority of the Avalon stockholders. Such provisions could also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to cause the replacement 4 Table of Contents of the current management of Avalon without the concurrence of the Avalon Board. These provisions have been designed to enable Avalon to develop its business and foster its long-term growth without disruptions caused by the threat of a takeover not deemed by the Avalon Board to be in the best interest of Avalon and its stockholders. Dividend Policy The dividend policy of Avalon is determined by the Avalon Board. Avalon presently intends to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of its business and, therefore, does not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Avalon’s market for shares may be subject to greater volatility Market fluctuations, as well as economic conditions, may adversely affect the market price of the Avalon Class A Common Stock. Given the relatively small market capitalization of Avalon, the market for its Class A Common Stock may be subject to greater volatility than would be the case for a large company. In addition, the selling and buying of shares on a daily basis may be limited because of the relatively small capitalization of Avalon. A majority of Avalon’s business is not subject to long-term contracts A significant portion of Avalon’s business is generated from waste brokerage and management services provided to customers and is not subject to long-term contracts. In light of current economic, regulatory and competitive conditions, there can be no assurance that Avalon’s current customers will continue to transact business with Avalon at historical levels. Failure by Avalon to retain its current customers or to replace lost business could adversely impact the future financial performance of Avalon. Avalon’s captive landfill management business is dependent upon a single customer as its sole source of revenue. If the captive landfill management business is unable to retain this customer, Avalon’s future financial performance could be adversely impacted. The golf operations primary source of revenues is derived from the members of the Avalon Golf and Country Club. Members are obligated to pay dues for a one year period. As such, the golf operations are primarily dependent on the sale and renewal of memberships in the Avalon Golf and Country Club, on a year to year basis. Long-lived asset impairment Certain events or changes in circumstances may indicate that the recoverability of the carrying value of long-lived assets should be assessed. Such events or changes may include a significant decrease in market value, a significant change in the business climate in a particular market, or a current-period operating or cash flow loss combined with historical losses or projected future losses. If an event occurs or changes in circumstances are present, Avalon estimates the future cash flows expected to result from the use of the applicable groups of long-lived assets and their eventual disposition. If the sum of the expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) is less than the carrying value, Avalon would recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying value of the groups of long-lived assets exceeds their fair value. Avalon would determine the fair value by using quoted market prices, if available, for such assets; or if quoted market prices are not available, Avalon would discount the expected estimated future cash flows. The ability to accurately predict future cash flows may impact the determination of fair value. Avalon’s assessments of cash flows represent management’s best estimate at the time of the impairment review. Avalon estimates the future cash flows expected to result from the use and, if applicable, the eventual disposition of the assets. The key variables that management must estimate include, among other factors, sales, costs, inflation and capital spending. Significant management judgment is involved in estimating these variables, and they include inherent uncertainties. If different cash flows had been estimated in the current period, the value of the long-lived assets could have been materially impacted. Furthermore, Avalon’s accounting estimates may change from period to period as conditions in markets change, and this could materially impact financial results in future periods. 5 Table of Contents Seasonality Avalon’s operations are somewhat seasonal in nature since a significant portion of those operations are primarily conducted in selected northeastern and midwestern states. Additionally, Avalon’s golf courses are located in northeast Ohio and western Pennsylvania and are significantly dependent upon weather conditions during the golf season. As a result, Avalon’s financial performance could be adversely affected by adverse weather conditions. Environmental Liabilities Avalon may be subject to liability for environmental contamination caused by pollutants, the transportation, treatment or disposal of which was arranged for by Avalon or one of its predecessors. Although Avalon has compliance guidelines for its waste brokerage and management services business, Avalon could still incur a substantial liability for environmental damage not covered by or in excess of its insurance policy limits and, as such, its financial condition could be adversely affected. Competitive pressures The hazardous and nonhazardous waste disposal brokerage and management business is highly competitive and fragmented. Avalon’s waste disposal brokerage and management business competes with other brokerage companies, as well as, with companies which own treatment and disposal facilities. In addition to price, knowledge and service are key factors when competing for waste disposal brokerage and management business. Avalon’s waste disposal brokerage and management business obtains and retains customers by providing services and identifying cost-efficient disposal options unique to a customer’s needs. Consolidation within the solid waste industry has resulted in reducing the number of companies offering disposal options available to waste generators and may cause disposal pricing to increase. Avalon may need to absorb all or a portion of these cost increases depending upon competitive conditions at the time. Golf Memberships and Liquor Licenses The Avalon Golf and Country Club has golf courses and clubhouses at each of its three facilities. The Squaw Creek and Sharon facilities each have a swimming pool, a fitness center and dining and banquet facilities. The Squaw Creek facility also has tennis courts. The Avalon Golf and Country Club competes with many public courses and country clubs in the area. Although the golf courses continue to be available to the general public, the primary source of revenues is derived from the members of the Avalon Golf and Country Club. Avalon believes that the combination of these three facilities will result in additional memberships in the Avalon Golf and Country Club. Due to the state of the economy, the ability to retain current members and attract new members is becoming more difficult. Although Avalon was able to retain and slightly increase the number of members of the Avalon Golf and Country Club in 2009, as of December 31, 2009, Avalon has not attained its membership goals. There can be no assurance as to when such goals will be attained and when the golf and related operations will ultimately become profitable. Avalon is continually using different marketing strategies to attract new members, such as local television advertising and various membership promotions. A significant decline in members could adversely affect the future financial performance of Avalon. All three of Avalon’s golf course operations currently hold liquor licenses for their respective facilities. If, for some reason, any one of these facilities were to lose their liquor license, the financial performance of the golf and related operations would be adversely affected. Growth Strategy The waste industry is a local and highly competitive business, requiring substantial labor and capital resources. The participants compete for accounts primarily on the basis of price and quality of service, and compete for disposal and processing business on the basis of tipping fees, geographic location and quality of operations. The waste industry has been consolidating and continues to consolidate as a result of a number of factors, including the increasing costs and complexity associated with waste management operations, lower volumes, and regulatory compliance. Many small independent operators and 6 Table of Contents municipalities lack the capital resources, management, operating skills and technical expertise necessary to operate effectively in such an environment. Avalon believes that this pressure will continue to fuel the consolidation within the waste industry and has positioned itself well to capitalize on these opportunities in the future, either through acquisitions or strategic partnerships. Our growth strategy will focus on increasing revenue, gaining market share and enhancing shareholder value through internal growth and acquisitions. We will manage our growth strategy as follows: Internal Growth: Our internal growth strategy focuses on retaining existing customers and obtaining new business through our well-managed sales and marketing activities. • Pricing Activities. We seek to secure price increases necessary to offset increased costs, to improve our operating margins and to obtain adequate returns on our investments in assets. • Long-Term Contracts. We seek to obtain long-term contracts with all of our customers. By obtaining such long-term agreements, we will have the opportunity to grow our contracted revenue base at the same rate as the underlying revenue growth of these customers. We believe that this positions us to eliminate further revenue deterioration and experience internal growth rates that are generally higher than our industry’s overall growth rate. Additionally, we believe that by securing a base of long-term recurring revenue, we are better able to protect our market position from competition and our business may be less susceptible to downturns in economic conditions. • Sales and Marketing Activities. We seek to manage our sales and marketing activities to enable us to capitalize on our position in many of the markets in which we operate. We provide a tailored program to all of our customers in response to their needs by centralizing services to effectively manage their needs, such as minimizing their procurement costs. We currently have a number of professional sales and marketing employees in the field who are compensated using a commission structure that is focused on generating high levels of quality revenue. For the most part, these employees directly solicit business from existing and prospective customers. We emphasize our rate and cost structures when we train new and existing sales personnel. • Development Activities. We will seek to identify opportunities to further position us as an integrated service provider in markets where we provide services. Where appropriate, we may seek to obtain permits that would provide vertically integrated waste services or expand the service offerings or leverage our existing volumes with current vendors to provide for long term, cost competitive strategic positioning within our existing markets. Development projects, while generally less capital intensive than acquiring such projects, typically require extensive permitting efforts that can take years to complete with no assurance of success. We may undertake development projects when we believe there is a reasonable probability of success and where reasonably priced acquisition opportunities are not available. Acquisition Growth: We will look to acquire businesses that complement our existing business platform. Our acquisition growth strategy will focus primarily on privately held companies and the waste operations of municipal and other local governmental authorities. We believe that our ability to acquire privately held companies is enhanced by increasing competition in the waste industry, increasing capital requirements as a result of changes in waste regulatory requirements, and the limited number of exit strategies for these privately held companies’ owners. We also seek to acquire operations and facilities from municipalities that are privatizing, as they seek to increase available capital and reduce risk. In addition, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire operations and facilities that are being divested by other publicly owned waste companies. In sum, our acquisition growth strategy will focus primarily on the following: • acquiring privately held businesses that position us for growth in existing markets, • acquiring well-managed companies and, when appropriate, retaining local management, and 7 Table of Contents • acquiring operations and facilities from municipalities that are privatizing and/or from publicly owned companies that are divesting assets. Our primary focus will be to acquire facilities that operate in markets that we are already servicing in order to fully integrate our operations. We believe these activities allow us to increase our revenue and market share, lower our cost of operations as a percentage of revenue, and maximize cost efficiencies and economies of scale. Several private country clubs in the northeast Ohio area are experiencing economic difficulties. Avalon believes some of these clubs may represent an attractive investment opportunity and is giving consideration to the possibility of acquiring one or more additional golf courses. While Avalon has not entered into any pending agreements for acquisitions, it may do so at any time and will continue to consider acquisitions that make economic sense. Such potential acquisitions could be financed by existing working capital, utilizing its line of credit, secured or unsecured debt, issuance of common stock, or issuance of a security with characteristics of both debt and equity, any of which could impact liquidity in the future. Government regulations The federal government and numerous state and local governmental bodies are continuing to consider legislation or regulations to either restrict or impede the disposal and/or transportation of waste. A portion of Avalon’s waste management services revenues is derived from the brokerage of the disposal and/or transportation of out-of-state waste. Any law or regulation restricting or impeding the transportation of waste or the acceptance of out-of-state waste for disposal could have a negative effect on Avalon. Avalon’s waste brokerage and management services may also be affected by the trend toward laws requiring the development of waste reduction and recycling or other programs. Changes in laws, regulations and accounting standards Our implementation of new accounting rules and interpretations or compliance with changes in existing accounting rules could adversely affect our balance sheet or results of operations or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations in future periods. Accounting estimates and judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates and subsequent adjustments could have a material adverse effect on operating results for the period or periods in which the change is identified. Inflation Avalon has not entered into any long-term fixed price contracts that could have a material adverse impact upon its financial performance in periods of inflation. In general, management believes that rising costs resulting from price inflation could be passed on to customers; however, Avalon may need to absorb all or a portion of these cost increases depending upon competitive conditions at the time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There were no unresolved comments from the Staff of the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission at December 31, 2009. 