ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results (Cautionary Statements Under Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) Forward-Looking Statements This annual report on Form 10-K contains certain “forward-looking statements,” as such term is defined in Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These statements set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We have attempted to identify such statements by using words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will,” “could” and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future events or future operating or financial performance or strategies. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: • our services, including the development and deployment of data products and services based on IP and other technologies and strategies to expand our targeted customer base and broaden our sales channels; • the operation of our network, including with respect to the development of IP-based services; • our liquidity and financial resources, including anticipated capital expenditures, funding of capital expenditures, anticipated levels of indebtedness, and the ability to raise capital through financing activities; • trends related to and management’s expectations regarding results of operations, required capital expenditures, integration of acquired businesses, revenues from existing and new lines of business and sales channels, and cash flows, including but not limited to those statements set forth in Item 7 below in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations;” and • sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or 19 Table of Contents uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties related to our businesses. These are factors that we believe, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by Section 21E of the Exchange Act. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. In addition to the risk factors identified under the captions below, the operation and results of our business are subject to risks and uncertainties identified elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K as well as general risks and uncertainties such as those relating to general economic conditions and demand for telecommunications services. Risks Related to Liquidity and Financial Resources We incurred substantial operating losses in 2006 and will not generate funds from operations sufficient to meet all of our cash requirements in the short term. For each period since inception, we have incurred substantial operating losses. For 2006, we posted a net operating loss of approximately $212 million and had net cash used in operating and investing activities of $220 million of which $79 million related to the acquisition of Fibernet, net of cash acquired. Although in 2007 we expect to generate positive cash flow from operations, achieving this depends upon significant adjusted gross margin improvements and additional prepayments received for IRU sales, either of which may not be realized. We expect our cash and cash equivalents to decline in the first half of 2007 due to a significant increase in capital expenditures and debt servicing requirements (predominately interest expense) relative to recent years. We plan to partially mitigate the effect on our cash flows of this increase in capital expenditures by financing a significant amount of our equipment purchases. Our ability to arrange such financings is subject to negotiating acceptable terms from equipment vendors and financing parties and to obtaining the consent of ST Telemedia pursuant to the terms of the indenture for the Mandatory Convertible Notes. In addition, we expect to use approximately $170 million of cash on hand in connection with the anticipated closing of the Impsat acquisition in the second quarter of 2007, which will significantly reduce our liquidity. Based on our business plan, we expect that our unrestricted cash on hand, together with cash flow from operations and anticipated equipment financings, will provide us with the necessary liquidity to fund our debt service requirements and investing activities until we start to generate positive cash flow beginning in the third quarter of 2007 and continuing over the long term. For the full year of 2007, we expect to generate negative cash flow, although to a significantly lesser degree than in 2006. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We can provide no assurances regarding the anticipated improvements in cash flows. If our cash flows do not improve, we would need to arrange financing facilities in order to continue as a going concern. We may be unable to arrange financing facilities on acceptable terms or at all. The covenants in our debt instruments and working capital facility restrict our financial and operational flexibility. GCL and numerous of its subsidiaries have issued the following debt instruments (collectively, the “Note Issuances”) over the past three years: • GCL’s $250 million aggregate original principal amount of 4.7% senior secured mandatory convertible notes due 2008 (the “Mandatory Convertible Notes”); 20 Table of Contents • GCL’s $144 million aggregate original principal amount of 5.0% convertible senior notes due 2011 (the “5% Convertible Notes”); • GCUK’s $200 million and 157 million pounds sterling aggregate principal amount (approximately $512 million combined) of senior secured notes due 2014; and • The $225 million aggregate original principal amount 9.875% senior notes due 2017 issued by GC Impsat Holdings I Plc in connection with the proposed acquisition of Impsat. GCL’s North American subsidiaries have also entered into a $55 million working capital facility with Bank of America, N.A. (the “Working Capital Facility”). At December 31, 2006, we have $1 million of borrowings and $9 million remaining available (after deduction of letters of credit issued) under the Working Capital Facility. The indentures governing these Note Issuances and the loan agreement governing the Working Capital Facility generally contain covenants and events of default that are customary for high-yield debt and senior secured credit facilities, respectively. These provisions include limitations on: • incurring or guaranteeing additional indebtedness; • dividend and other payments to holders of equity and subordinated debt; • investments or other restricted payments; • asset sales, consolidations, and mergers; • creating or assuming liens; and • transactions with affiliates. In addition, the Working Capital Facility includes a quarterly maintenance covenant based on GCL attaining certain minimum levels of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Additionally, the certificate of designations governing our 2% Cumulative Preferred Shares (the “GCL Preferred Stock”) requires the holder’s approval for certain major corporate actions of GCL and/or its subsidiaries. See Item 5, “Description of Global Crossing Equity Securities.” Each Note Issuance indenture as well as the Working Capital Facility loan agreement has limited exceptions, baskets and carve-outs to the applicable covenants and events of default. See Item 15, “Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules” below for the list of documents containing these debt covenants. Substantially all of our assets have been pledged to secure the indebtedness under certain of the Note Issuances and the Working Capital Facility, as well as certain lease facilities secured by the assets being leased (the “Capital Lease Facilities”). A failure to comply with the covenants contained in any of the Note Issuance indentures or the Working Capital Facility or the Capital Lease Facilities loan agreements could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in an acceleration of all such debts, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If the indebtedness under any of the Note Issuances or Working Capital Facility or the Capital Lease Facilities were to be accelerated, we would have to raise funds from alternative sources, which may not be available on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. Moreover, a default by any of our subsidiaries under any capital lease obligation or debt obligation totaling more than $2.5 million, as well as the bankruptcy or insolvency of any of our subsidiaries, could trigger cross-default provisions under our other debt instruments. For a further discussion of these issues, please see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 21 Table of Contents Our international corporate structure limits the availability of our consolidated cash resources for intercompany funding purposes and reduces our financial restructuring flexibility. As a holding company, all of our revenues are generated by our subsidiaries and substantially all of our assets are owned by our subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent upon dividends and inter-company transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other payment obligations. Our subsidiaries are incorporated and operate in various jurisdictions throughout the world. Some of our subsidiaries have cash on hand that exceeds their immediate requirements but that cannot be distributed or loaned to us or our other subsidiaries to fund our or their operations due to contractual restrictions or legal constraints related to the lack of retained earnings, the solvency of such entities or other local law restrictions (e.g., restrictions related to foreign exchange controls or transfer approvals). These restrictions could cause us or certain of our other subsidiaries to become and remain illiquid while other subsidiaries have sufficient liquidity to meet their liquidity needs. We cannot predict our future tax liabilities. If we become subject to increased levels of taxation, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Due to the international nature of our operations, we are subject to multiple sets of complex and varying tax laws and rules. We cannot predict the amount of future tax liabilities to which we may become subject. Any increase in the amount of taxation incurred as a result of our operations or due to legislative or regulatory changes could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we believe that our current tax provisions are reasonable and appropriate, we cannot be assured that these items will be settled for the amounts accrued or that additional exposures will not be identified in the future. If the Impsat transaction closes, we may be subject to significant liabilities due to a tax on antennas imposed by the City of Buenos Aires, Argentina and other municipalities. In September 2003, the City of Buenos Aires, Argentina (the “City of Buenos Aries”) notified several telecommunication companies, including Impsat, that it will start collecting a tax on all antennas within the city, as provided by the City Fiscal Code. Through December 31, 2006, Impsat received invoices totaling approximately $34.8 million, but has not accrued amounts relating to this matter. Impsat formally objected to the legality of the tax and to certain factual assumptions used in calculating the tax, and has rejected each of the notices in an administrative proceeding filed with the tax authorities of the City of Buenos Aires. If required to pay this tax at the current rate and based on invoices received from the City of Buenos Aires through December 31, 2006, Impsat estimates that it would be subject to an additional tax of approximately $8.6 million per year. In December 2006, Impsat filed an objection with respect to the tax on antennas assessed for the final quarter of 2006. In its objection, Impsat reaffirmed its position that such a tax is both illegal and based on false assumptions. Impsat’s objection is pending resolution before the City’s tax authorities. In addition, Impsat has received claims of a similar nature from the Municipality of Quilmes in Argentina in the amount of approximately $12.5 million, plus defaulted interest. There can be no assurance that Impsat will not be forced to pay the City of Buenos Aires, or the Municipality of Quilmes, an amount representing the full (or a portion of the) invoiced amount of the tax (plus interest and penalties), or that it will not receive similar invoices from other municipalities in Argentina. Additionally, we cannot assure you that any of Impsat’s assets will not be attached in connection with either of these claims or that Impsat will not be required to post a bond representing the full (or a portion of the) invoiced amount during any legal proceeding challenging these claims. Risks Related to Our Operations Our rights to the use of the dark fiber that make up our network may be affected by the financial health of our fiber providers. The majority of our North American network and some of the other transmission facilities comprising our global network are held by us through long-term leases or IRU agreements with various companies that provide us access to fiber owned by them. A bankruptcy or financial collapse of one of these fiber providers could result in a loss of our rights under such leases and agreements with the provider, which in turn could have a negative impact on the integrity of our network and ultimately on our results of operations. To our knowledge, the rights 22 Table of Contents of the holder of such rights in strands of fiber in the event of bankruptcy have not been specifically addressed by the judiciary at the state or federal level in the U.S. or in most of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and, therefore, our rights with respect to dark fiber agreements under such circumstances are unclear. We may not be able to continue to connect our network to incumbent carriers’ networks or maintain Internet peering arrangements on favorable terms. We must be party to interconnection agreements with incumbent carriers and certain independent carriers in order to connect our customers to the PSTN. If we are unable to renegotiate or maintain interconnection agreements in all of our markets on favorable terms, it could adversely affect our ability to provide services in the affected markets. In Europe, although certain rights to interconnect with other networks are subject to legal and regulatory protection, new IP-based networking technologies are becoming more generally adopted within the industry and new commercial and charging models are being developed for interworking between these networks. The extent to which such new models may affect our business is currently uncertain. Peering agreements with Internet service providers allow us to access the Internet and exchange transit for free with these providers. Depending on the relative size of the carriers involved, these exchanges may be made without settlement charge. Recently, many Internet service providers that previously offered peering have reduced or eliminated peering relationships or are establishing new, more restrictive criteria for peering and an increasing number of these service providers are seeking to impose charges for transit. Increases in costs associated with Internet and exchange transit could have a material adverse effect on our margins for our products that require Internet access. We may not be able to renegotiate or maintain peering arrangements on favorable terms, which would impair our growth and performance. The Network Security Agreement imposes significant requirements on us. A violation of the agreement could have severe consequences. The Network Security Agreement imposes significant requirements on us related to information storage and management; traffic routing and management; physical, logical, and network security arrangements; personnel screening and training; corporate governance practices; and other matters. While we expect to comply fully with our obligations under the Network Security Agreement, it is impossible to eliminate completely the risk of a violation of the agreement. The consequences of a violation of the Network Security Agreement could be severe, potentially including the revocation of our FCC licenses in the U.S., which would result in the cessation of our U.S. operations and would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Upon completion of the Impsat acquisition, we will need to bring their U.S. operations into compliance with the Network Security Agreement. It is expensive and difficult to switch new customers to our network, and lack of cooperation of incumbent carriers can slow the new customer connection process. It is expensive and difficult for us to switch a new customer to our network because: • we usually charge the potential customer certain one-time installation fees, and, although the fees are generally less than the cost to install a new customer, they may act as a deterrent to becoming our customer; and • we require cooperation from the incumbent carrier in instances where there is no direct connection between the customer and our network, which can complicate and add to the time that it takes to provision a new customer’s service. Many of our principal competitors, the domestic and international incumbent carriers, are already established providers of local telephone services to all or virtually all telephone subscribers within their respective service areas. Their physical connections from their premises to those of their customers are expensive and difficult to duplicate. To complete the new customer provisioning process, we rely on the incumbent carrier to process certain information. The incumbent carriers have a financial interest in retaining their customers, 23 Table of Contents which could reduce their willingness to cooperate with our new customer provisioning requests, thereby adversely impacting our ability to compete and grow revenues. Further consolidation of incumbent carriers with other telecommunications service providers may make these problems more acute. The operation, administration, maintenance and repair of our systems are subject to risks that could lead to disruptions in our services and the failure of our systems to operate as intended for their full design life. Each of our systems is subject to the risks inherent in large-scale, complex fiber-optic telecommunications systems. The operation, administration, maintenance and repair of our systems require the coordination and integration of sophisticated and highly specialized hardware and software technologies and equipment located throughout the world. Our systems may not continue to function as expected in a cost-effective manner. The failure of the hardware or software to function as required could render a cable system unable to perform at design specifications. Each of our subsea systems has a design life of generally 25 years, while each of our terrestrial systems has a design life of at least 20 years. The economic lives of these systems, however, may be shorter than their design lives, and we cannot provide any assurances as to the actual useful life of any of these systems. A number of factors will ultimately affect the useful life of each of our systems, including, among other things, quality of construction, unexpected damage or deterioration and technological or economic obsolescence. Interruptions in service or performance problems, for whatever reason, could undermine confidence in our services and cause us to lose customers or make it more difficult to attract new ones. In addition, because many of our services are critical to our customers’ businesses, a significant interruption in service could result in lost profits or other loss to customers. Although we attempt to disclaim liability for these losses in our service agreements, a court might not enforce a limitation on liability under certain conditions, which could expose us to financial loss. In addition, we often provide customers with guaranteed service level commitments. If we are unable to meet these guaranteed service level commitments for whatever reason, we may be obligated to provide our customers with credits, generally in the form of free service for a short period of time, which could negatively affect our operating results. The failure of our operations support systems to perform as we expect could impair our ability to retain customers and obtain new customers, or provision their services, or result in increased capital expenditures. Our operations support systems are an important factor in our success. Critical information systems used in daily operations perform sales and order entry, provisioning, billing and accounts receivable functions, and cost of service verification and payment functions, particularly with respect to facilities leased from incumbent carriers. If any of these systems fail or do not perform as expected, it would adversely affect our ability to process orders and provision sales, and to bill for services efficiently and accurately, all of which could cause us to suffer customer dissatisfaction, loss of business, loss of revenue or the inability to add customers on a timely basis, any of which would adversely affect our revenues. In addition, system failure or performance issues could have an adverse impact on our ability to effectively audit and dispute invoicing and provisioning data provided by service providers from whom we lease facilities. Furthermore, processing higher volumes of data or additionally automating system features could result in system breakdowns and delays and additional unanticipated expense to remedy the defect or to replace the defective system with an alternative system. Intellectual property and proprietary rights of others could prevent us from using necessary technology. While we do not believe that there exists any technology patented by others, or other intellectual property owned by others, that is necessary for us to provide our services and that is not now subject to a license allowing us to use it, from time to time we receive claims from third parties in this regard and there can be no assurances as to our ability to defend against those claims successfully. If such intellectual property is owned by others and not licensed by us, we would have to negotiate a license for the use of that property. We may not be able to negotiate such a license at a price that is acceptable or at all. This could force us to cease offering products and services incorporating such property, thereby adversely affecting operating results. 24 Table of Contents We may not be successful in integrating the Fibernet or Impsat businesses into ours or may not be able to realize the benefits we anticipate from either the Fibernet or Impsat acquisitions, which could affect our financial results and the value of our common stock following consummation of the transactions. We are in the early stages of the process of integrating Fibernet with our business and will begin the integration of Impsat with our business immediately after the closing of the acquisition. The process of coordinating and integrating these organizations into our business so that the consolidated business operates as efficiently as possible, has required and will require significant corporate resources, and such efficiencies will be limited to some degree by our capital structure requirements for the Note Issuances, Working Capital Facility and Capital Lease Facilities. In addition, this process could cause the interruption to, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of any of our or Fibernet’s or Impsat’s businesses, including customer service, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The management of the integration of the businesses, systems and culture of ourselves, Fibernet and Impsat will require the continued development of our financial and management controls, including the integration of information systems and structure, the integration of product offerings and customer base, the retention of current personnel and the training of new personnel, all of which could disrupt the timeliness of financial information, place a strain on our management resources and require significant expenditure. Any significant diversion of management’s attention or any major difficulties encountered in the integration of the businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we have budgeted anticipated integration costs, there can be no assurance that additional costs will not be incurred. While we have identified potential cost and capital expenditure savings which we believe to be achievable as a result of the Fibernet and Impsat acquisitions, and we believe that the underlying assumptions upon which we have based our estimates are reasonable, the timing of and degree to which we are able to realize such savings, which remain subject to numerous significant risks and uncertainties, could nonetheless vary significantly. There can be no assurance that such potential savings, or other possible benefits such as revenue synergies will be realized in the near future, if at all. Significant costs may be incurred to realize these benefits. Our failure to realize anticipated benefits could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have substantial international operations and face political, legal, tax, regulatory and other risks from our operations in foreign jurisdictions. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from international operations and have substantial physical assets in several jurisdictions along our routes, including countries in Latin America, Asia and Europe. In addition, we lease capacity and obtain services from carriers in those and other regions. As a result our business is subject to particular risks from operating in some of these areas, including: • uncertain and rapidly changing political, regulatory and economic conditions, including the possibility of civil unrest, vandalism affecting cable assets, terrorism, armed conflict or the seizure or nationalizing of private property; • unexpected changes in regulatory environments and trade barriers; • exposure to new or different accounting, legal, tax and regulatory standards; • burdensome tax, customs, duties or regulatory assessments based on new or differing interpretations of law or regulations; and • difficulties in staffing and managing operations consistently through our several operating areas. In addition, managing operations in multiple jurisdictions, which will increase after the Impsat transaction closes, may place further strain on our ability to manage growth. 25 Table of Contents We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), and our failure to comply with the laws and regulations thereunder could result in penalties which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. Although we make every effort to comply with the FCPA and to ensure that our employees comply with the FCPA, we cannot assure you that such precautions will protect us against liability under the FCPA by our agents, employees and intermediaries for whom we may have exposure under the FCPA with respect to our business or any businesses we may acquire. If we are not in compliance with such laws and regulations, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties, which may cause harm to our reputation and to our brand names and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our customers deal predominantly in foreign currencies, so we may be exposed to exchange rate risks and our net loss may suffer due to currency translations. Many of our current and prospective customers derive their revenue in currencies other than U.S. dollars but are invoiced by us in U.S. dollars. The obligations of customers with substantial revenue in foreign currencies may be subject to unpredictable and indeterminate increases in the event that such currencies depreciate in value relative to the U.S. dollar. Furthermore, such customers may become subject to exchange control regulations restricting the conversion of their revenue currencies into U.S. dollars. In either event, the affected customers may not be able to pay us in U.S. dollars. In addition, where we issue invoices for our services in currencies other than U.S. dollars, our net loss may suffer due to currency translations in the event that such currencies depreciate relative to the U.S. dollar and we do not elect to enter into currency hedging arrangements in respect of those payment obligations. Declines in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our ability to market our services to customers whose revenues are denominated in those currencies. Certain Latin American economies have experienced shortages in foreign currency reserves and have adopted restrictions on the ability to expatriate local earnings and convert local currencies into U.S. dollars. Any such shortages or restrictions may limit or impede our ability to transfer or to convert such currencies into U.S. dollars and to expatriate such funds for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on our indebtedness. These restrictions will have a significantly greater impact on us and on our ability to service the debt under the Impsat Notes once the acquisition is completed. In addition, currency devaluations in one country may have adverse effects in another country. For example, in 2001 and 2002, Argentina imposed exchange controls and transfer restrictions substantially limiting the ability of companies to make payments abroad. While these restrictions have been substantially eased, Argentina may tighten exchange controls or transfer restrictions in the future to prevent capital flight, counter a significant depreciation of the peso or address other unforeseen circumstances. In addition, in Venezuela, the conversion of bolivares into U.S. dollars at the official exchange rate established by the Venezuelan Central Bank and the Venezuelan Ministry of Finance is generally limited to the current exchange control regime. Accordingly, the acquisition of foreign currency by Venezuelan companies to honor foreign debt or to pay dividends is subject to registration and subject to a process of application and approval by the Comisión de Administración de Divisas and to the availability of foreign currency within the guidelines set forth by the National Executive Power for the allocation of foreign currency. Many of our most important government customers have the right to terminate their contracts with us if a change of control occurs or to reduce the services they purchase from us. Many of GCUK’s government contracts contain broad change of control provisions that permit the customer to terminate the contract if GCUK undergoes a change of control. A termination in many instances gives rise to other rights of the government customer, including, in some cases, the right to purchase some of GCUK’s assets used in servicing those contracts. Some change of control provisions may be triggered when any lender (other than a bank lender in the normal course of business) or a noteholder or group of noteholders would have the right to control GCUK or the majority of GCUK’s assets upon any event, including upon bankruptcy. If GCUK’s noteholders have the right to control GCUK or the majority of GCUK’s assets upon such event, it could be deemed to be a change of control of GCUK. In addition, if ST Telemedia’s ownership interest in Global Crossing falls below certain levels, it could be deemed to be an indirect change of control of GCUK. This could include a 26 Table of Contents situation in which (assuming the sale or transfer of its equity interests or their dilution) ST Telemedia sells or transfers all or a portion of the Mandatory Convertible Notes. In addition, most of GCUK’s government contracts do not include significant minimum usage guarantees. Thus, the applicable customers could simply choose not to use GCUK’s services and move to another telecommunications provider. If any of GCUK’s significant government contracts were terminated as a result of a change of control or otherwise, or if the applicable customers were to significantly reduce the services that they purchase under these contracts, we could experience a material and adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Competition and Our Industry The prices that we charge for our services have been decreasing, and we expect that such decreases will continue over time. We expect overall price erosion in our industry to continue at varying rates based on our service portfolio and reflective of marketplace demand and competition relative to existing capabilities and availability. Accordingly, our historical revenues are not indicative of future revenues based on comparable traffic volumes. If the prices for our services decrease for whatever reason and we are unable to increase volumes through additional services or otherwise, our operating results would be adversely affected. Similarly, future price decreases could be greater than we are anticipating. Technological advances and regulatory changes are eroding traditional barriers between formerly distinct telecommunications markets, which could increase the competition we face and put downward pressure on prices. New technologies, such as VoIP, and regulatory changes, particularly those permitting incumbent local telephone companies to provide long distance services, are blurring the distinctions between traditional and emerging telecommunications markets. In addition, the increasing importance of data services has focused the attention of most telecommunications companies on this growing sector. As a result, a competitor in any of our business areas is potentially a competitor in our other business areas, which could impair our prospects, put downward pressure on prices and adversely affect our operating results. We face competition in each of our markets from the incumbent carrier in that market and from more recent market entrants. This competition places downward pressure on prices for local and long distance telephone service and data services, which can adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we could face competition from other companies, such as other competitive carriers, cable television companies, microwave carriers, wireless telephone system operators and private networks built by large end-users or municipalities. If we are not able to compete effectively with these industry participants, our operating results would be adversely affected. In the U.K., OFCOM is encouraging new operators to build their own infrastructures to compete with BT. At the same time, BT is constructing a new, IP based network which it refers to as a “21st Century” network. At present, it is not clear how operators will connect with this network. There are currently no proposals as to how and at what level BT will charge for access to the network. Regulation has historically provided for the expansion of competition in the marketplace and the subsequent lowering of tariffs charged across the industry. However, there is no way to know what regulatory actions OFCOM and other governmental and regulatory agencies may take in the future. Individually and collectively, these matters could have negative effects on our U.K. business, which could materially and adversely affect our consolidated business, operations and financial condition. Many of our competitors have superior resources, which could place us at a cost and price disadvantage. Many of our existing and potential competitors have significant competitive advantages, including greater market presence, name recognition and financial, technological and personnel resources, superior engineering and marketing capabilities, more ubiquitous network reach, and significantly larger installed customer bases. As a result, many of our competitors can raise capital at a lower cost than we can, and they may be able to adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities (including regulatory changes) more readily, and devote greater resources to 27 Table of Contents the development, marketing and sale of products and services than we can. Also, our competitors’ greater brand name recognition may require us to price our services at lower levels in order to win business. Our competitors’ financial advantages may give them the ability to reduce their prices for an extended period of time if they so choose. Many of these advantages are expected to increase with the recent trend toward consolidation by large industry participants. Our selection of technology could prove to be incorrect, ineffective or unacceptably costly, which would limit our ability to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs, emerging competition and frequent new product and service introductions. The future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to adapt to these factors in a timely and cost-effective manner. If we do not replace or upgrade technology and equipment that becomes obsolete, or if the technology choices we make prove to be incorrect, ineffective or unacceptably costly, we will be unable to compete effectively because we will not be able to meet the expectations of our customers, which could cause our results to suffer. The introduction of new technologies may reduce the cost of services similar to those that we plan to provide. As a result, our most significant competitors in the future may be new entrants to the telecommunications industry or existing providers that upgrade equipment with new technologies. These providers may not be burdened by an installed base of outdated equipment and, therefore, may be able to respond more quickly to customer demands. Our operations are subject to regulation in the U.S. and abroad and require us to obtain and maintain a number of governmental licenses and permits. If we fail to comply with those regulatory requirements or obtain and maintain those licenses and permits, we may not be able to conduct our business. Moreover, those regulatory requirements could change in a manner that significantly increases our costs or otherwise adversely affects our operations. In the U.S., our intrastate, interstate, and international telecommunications systems and services are subject to regulation at the federal, state, and local levels. We also have facilities and provide services in numerous countries in Europe, Latin America, and the Asia/Pacific region. Our operations in those countries are subject to regulation at the regional level (e.g., European Union), the national level and, in some cases, at the state, provincial, and local levels. These regulatory requirements subject us to the following risks: • Our interstate and international operations in the U.S. are governed by the Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the 1996 Act. There are several ongoing proceedings at the FCC and in the federal courts regarding the implementation of various aspects of the 1996 Act. We expect that there will be attempts to modify, limit or eliminate the basic framework for competition in the local exchange services market established by the 1996 Act through a combination of federal legislation, new rulemaking proceedings by the FCC and challenges to existing and proposed regulations by the RBOCs. The outcomes of these proceedings may affect the manner in which we are permitted to provide our services in the U.S. and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. • The FCC has to date treated Internet service providers as providers of information services as defined in the 1996 Act. Information service providers are currently exempt from federal and state regulations governing common carriers, arguably including the obligation to pay access charges and contribute to the FUSF. The FCC is currently examining the broader issue of intercarrier compensation. If the FCC were to determine that service related to Internet service providers is subject to FCC regulation, it could significantly increase our cost structure and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. • The intrastate activities of our local telephone service companies are regulated by the states in which they do business. A number of states in which we operate are conducting proceedings related to the 28 Table of Contents provision of services in a competitive telecommunications environment. These proceedings may affect the manner in which we are permitted to provide our services in one or more states and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. • Our operations outside the U.S. are governed by the laws of the countries in which we operate. The regulation of telecommunications networks and services outside the U.S. varies widely. In some countries, the range of services that we are legally permitted to provide may be limited. In other countries, existing telecommunications legislation is in the process of development, is unclear or inconsistent, or is applied in an unequal or discriminatory fashion, or inadequate judicial, regulatory or other forums are available to address these inadequacies or disputes. Our inability or failure to comply with the telecommunications laws and regulations of one or more of the countries in which we operate could result in the temporary or permanent suspension of operations in one or more countries. We also may be prohibited from entering certain countries at all or from providing all of our services in one or more countries. In addition, many of the countries in which we operate are conducting regulatory or other proceedings that will affect the implementation of their telecommunications legislation. We cannot be certain of the outcome of these proceedings. These proceedings may affect the manner in which we are permitted to provide our services in these countries and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. • In the ordinary course of constructing our networks and providing our services we are required to obtain and maintain a variety of telecommunications and other licenses and authorizations in the countries in which we operate, as well as rights-of-way from utilities, railroads, incumbent carriers and other persons. We also must comply with a variety of regulatory obligations. Our failure to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, authorizations and rights-of-way, or to comply with the obligations imposed upon license holders in one or more countries, may result in sanctions or additional costs, including the revocation of authority to provide services in one or more countries. • The regulatory requirements to which we are subject could change in a manner that significantly increases our costs or otherwise adversely affects our operations. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may adversely affect the financial markets and our business and operations. Significant terrorist attacks against the U.S., the U.K. or other countries in which we operate are possible. It is possible that our physical facilities or network control systems could be the target of such attacks, or that such attacks could impact other telecommunications companies or infrastructure or the Internet in a manner that disrupts our operations. Terrorist attacks (or threats of attack) also could lead to volatility or illiquidity in world financial markets and could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or otherwise adversely affect the economy. These events could adversely affect our business and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms. In addition, it is becoming increasingly expensive to obtain adequate insurance for losses incurred as a result of terrorist attacks, in some cases, such insurance may not be available. Uninsured losses as a result of terrorist attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Risks Related to Our Common Stock We have a very substantial overhang of common stock and a majority shareholder that owns a substantial portion of common stock and securities convertible into our common stock. Future sales of our common stock could cause substantial dilution and future acquisitions by our majority shareholder will decrease the liquidity of our common stock, each of which may negatively affect the market price of our shares and impact our ability to raise capital. As March 1, 2007, there were 36,692,804 shares of our common stock outstanding. There were also: • 3,135,438 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding stock options and vesting of unvested restricted stock units; 29 Table of Contents • 16,200,089 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon the conversion of the Mandatory Convertible Notes in December 2008, including accrued interest; • 18,000,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon the conversion of our outstanding convertible preferred stock; and • 6,255,440 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of our 5% Convertible Notes. As of March 1, 2007, STT Crossing, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ST Telemedia, beneficially owned 57% of our common stock on a fully diluted basis (after giving effect to the conversion of the Mandatory Convertible Notes GCL Preferred Stock and 5% Convertible Notes and to the exercise and vesting of all outstanding awards under our stock incentive plan). Although the shares beneficially owned by STT Crossing are not freely transferable under the Securities Act, ST Telemedia has the contractual right to require us to register sales of such restricted stock at any time. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock into the market, the availability of shares of common stock for future sale, or any acquisition of common shares by ST Telemedia and its affiliates will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued upon the exercise of stock options or conversion of any of the Note Issuances or the preferred stock), the purchase of a substantial amount of common shares by our affiliates, or the perception that such sales or acquisitions could occur, may materially and adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and impact our ability to raise capital. The market prices of our common stock may fluctuate. The market prices of our common stock may fluctuate significantly for a number of reasons which include: • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stocks of other companies in our industry; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • changes in general conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events; • revocation of our licenses to conduct business (or unduly burdensome changes in regulatory fees) or nationalization or appropriation of our assets; and • sales of common stock by our controlling shareholder or directors and executive officers. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. Federal law generally prohibits more than 25% of our capital stock to be owned by foreign persons. Ownership of our common stock is governed in part by the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. Other than ownership by ST Telemedia and its affiliates, which cannot exceed 61.5% without prior FCC approval, foreign ownership of our capital stock (i.e., total equity interests held by non-U.S. persons) generally cannot exceed 25% without the prior FCC approval. Although we monitor foreign ownership in our capital stock, we cannot necessarily detect or control it and could be subject to governmental penalties if trading in our capital stock resulted in foreign ownership in excess of 25% without prior FCC approval. ST Telemedia is our majority stockholder. A subsidiary of ST Telemedia owns over 56% of GCL’s outstanding equity securities. As a result, ST Telemedia has the power to elect the majority of GCL’s directors. Under applicable law and GCL’s articles of 30 Table of Contents association and bye-laws and the certificate of designations for GCL’s preferred stock, certain actions cannot be taken without the approval of holders of a majority of our voting stock including, without limitation, mergers, certain acquisitions and dispositions, issuances of additional equity securities (with certain enumerated exceptions), incurrences of indebtedness above specified amounts, the making of capital expenditures in excess of specified amounts, and amendments to our articles of association and bye-laws. GCL’s bye-laws include significant additional corporate governance rights of ST Telemedia. These rights effectively dilute the rights of other shareholders. In addition, a subsidiary of ST Telemedia holds the Convertible Notes and enjoys significant rights as a creditor under the indenture for the Convertible Notes. Moreover, the Convertible Notes are by their terms convertible at any time into common shares of GCL (16.2 million shares assuming conversion after four years), thereby increasing ST Telemedia’s ownership percentage in us. A sale by ST Telemedia of a significant portion of its shareholdings in us could trigger contractual provisions tied to a change in control of the Company. For example, a change in control could result in the termination of significant contracts with U.K. government customers, the requirement that we offer to purchase the Mandatory Convertible Notes and the GCUK Notes at a price equal to 101% of their outstanding principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest and the 5% Convertible Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, and the acceleration of the vesting of stock options and other incentive compensation awards granted to our officers, directors and employees. Economic and political conditions in Latin America pose numerous risks to our operations. Upon our completion of our acquisition of Impsat, our business operations will be significantly more dependent on the Latin American region. As events in the Latin American region have demonstrated, negative economic or political developments in one country in the region can lead to or exacerbate economic or political instability elsewhere in the region. Furthermore, events in recent years in other developing markets have placed pressures on the stability of the currencies of a number of countries in Latin America, including Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Venezuela. While certain areas in the Latin American region have experienced economic growth, this recovery remains fragile. Pressures on local currencies are likely to have an adverse effect on our customers. Volatility in regional currencies and capital markets could also have an adverse effect on our ability and that of our customers to gain access to international capital markets for necessary financing, refinancing and repatriation of earnings. In addition, any changes to the political and economic conditions in Venezuela could materially and adversely impact our future business, operations, financial condition and results of operations. In January 2007, the Venezuelan National Assembly issued an Enabling Law allowing President Hugo Chavez to carry out the nationalization of certain businesses in the electricity and energy sectors, as well as Venezuela’s largest telecommunications company, Compañía Anónima Nacional Teléfonos de Venezuela (“CANTV”). A statement from the Venezuelan minister of telecommunications and current director of the Comisión Nacional de Telecomunicaciones, the country’s telecommunications regulatory authority, has indicated that the nationalization of CANTV does not imply the nationalization of the telecommunications sector as a whole. However, there can be no assurance that such nationalization plans will not also extend to other businesses in the telecommunications sector, including our business. The government has also announced plans to modify the nation’s constitution and telecommunications law, and we cannot predict the impact of such amendments to our business. Other Risks We are exposed to contingent liabilities, including those related to Fibernet and Impsat, that could result in material losses that we have not reserved against. Included in “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 and Note 22, “Commitments, Contingencies and Other” to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K, are descriptions of certain important contingent liabilities, including liabilities relating to tax matters. If one or more of these contingent liabilities were to be resolved in a manner adverse to us, we could suffer losses that are material to our business, 31 Table of Contents results of operations and financial condition. We have not established reserves for many of these contingent liabilities. Moreover, as described in “Legal Proceedings” and in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements, certain of these contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in addition to the effect of any potential monetary judgment or sanction against us. Additionally, Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation Number 48 will require us to analyze tax accruals on a new basis commencing in 2007. This new basis could result in increases in such accruals. See Note 2, “Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Assets and entities that we have acquired from Fibernet and will acquire upon the consummation of the Impsat transaction may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have no recourse, or only limited recourse. In general, the representations and warranties provided by Fibernet and Impsat under their respective purchase agreements do not survive the closing of the transactions. As a result, we will not be able to recover any amounts with respect to losses due to breaches by either Fibernet or Impsat of their representations and warranties. The total amount of costs and expenses that may be incurred with respect to liabilities associated with the acquisitions may exceed our expectations, plus we may experience other unanticipated adverse effects, all of which may adversely affect our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. Our real estate restructuring reserve represents a material liability the calculation of which involves significant estimation. As of December 31, 2006, our real estate restructuring reserve aggregated $372 million of continuing building lease obligations and estimated decommissioning costs and broker commissions, offset by anticipated receipts of $122 million from existing subleases and $164 million from subleases projected to be entered into in the future. Although we believe these estimates to be reasonable, actual sublease receipts could turn out to be materially different than we have estimated. In their 2005 audit, Impsat’s independent registered public accounting firm issued a “going concern” opinion expressing doubt as to Impsat’s continuing financial viability. As a result of Impsat’s liquidity position, amount of debt obligations and operating results, Impsat’s independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP, issued a “going concern” opinion in connection with their audit of Impsat’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005. This opinion expressed substantial doubt as to Impsat’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on our business plan, we believe that the restructuring of Impsat’s indebtedness (including the deferral of maturities) and infusion of funding in connection with our acquisition of Impsat will provide it with the liquidity needed to satisfy its debt service obligations, and to achieve longer term growth and operational goals. However, there can be no assurance in this regard and a failure by Impsat to realize these expectations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 