ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this annual report, you should carefully read and consider the following risk factors. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. We have incurred losses in the past and may not achieve or sustain consistent profitability, which could result in a decline in the value of our common stock. Since inception, we have incurred net losses and experienced negative cash flows from operations in each quarter, except that we had net income and a positive cash flow from operations in the third quarter of 2000 and a positive cash flow from operations in the third quarter of 2001, fourth quarter of 2004 and third quarter of 2005. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $146.2 million. We may not be able to maintain or grow our revenues in the future, and even if we do, the historical percentage growth rate of our revenues may not be sustainable as our revenue base increases. In addition, irrespective of our revenues, we may not achieve or sustain profitability in future periods as a result of our operating expenses. We expect that over time we will have to increase our operating expenses in connection with: • continuing to develop our technology; • expanding into new product markets; • expanding into new geographic markets; • continuing to drive demand of our products; • hiring additional personnel; • upgrading our information and internal control systems; • pursuing additional strategic acquisitions; • meeting enhanced regulatory and corporate governance requirements; and • ongoing litigation. 22 Table of Contents If we are unable to achieve or sustain profitability in future quarters, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our operating results fluctuate and could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Our quarterly and yearly operating results have varied widely in the past and will probably continue to fluctuate. For this reason, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. In addition, our limited operating history makes predicting our future performance difficult. If our operating results for a future quarter or year fail to meet market expectations, this shortfall could result in a decline in our stock price. We base our spending levels for product development, sales and marketing and other operating expenses largely on our expected future revenues. Because our expenses are largely fixed for a particular quarter or year, we may be unable to reduce our spending in time to compensate for any unexpected quarterly or annual shortfall in revenues. If this occurs our operating results could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could result in a decline in our stock price. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in our management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to: • revenue recognition, including sales returns and allowances and promotional rebates; • provision for doubtful accounts; • inventory reserves; • restructuring reserves; and • analysis of impairment of goodwill and other long-lived intangible assets. Examples of estimates we have made include, but are not limited to, those associated with the costs of excess and obsolete inventory, costs of our 2001 and 2002 restructuring, impairment analysis of the intangible assets obtained in our 2002 acquisition of RapidStream Inc., as well as goodwill relating to the acquisitions of BeadleNet LLC, Qiave Technologies Corporation and RapidStream. The estimates may prove to be inaccurate. For example, the costs of excess and obsolete inventory may increase above current estimates if our revenues fall below our sales forecasts. Although we do not anticipate further significant adjustments to our 2001 and 2002 restructuring in addition to the $1 million charge we recorded in the fourth quarter of 2003, the $400,000 charge we recorded in the third quarter of 2004 and the $165,000 charge we recorded in the fourth quarter of 2005, the actual costs related to the restructuring may differ from our estimate if it takes us longer than expected to find suitable tenants for our excess facilities or if there are further changes in the real estate market where excess facilities are located. 23 Table of Contents If potential customers do not accept our Firebox products and related optional products and services, including the LiveSecurity Service, our business will not succeed. We currently expect that future revenues will be primarily generated through sales of our Firebox products and related optional products and services, including the LiveSecurity Service, and we cannot succeed if the market does not accept these products and services. Some of our Firebox products, particularly our key Firebox X family of products and our relatively new Fireware operating system, however, are relatively new and unproven. The Firebox X Peak line of products and the Fireware operating system has only been available since April 2005, the Firebox X Core line of products has only been available since February 2004 and the Firebox X Edge line of products has only been available since August 2004. In addition, we have only recently begun to focus on marketing and selling the related optional products and services, and we may be unsuccessful in marketing, selling and delivering these types of options. The Firebox X family of products, which replaces a product line that represented a majority of our revenues and augments our existing Firebox SOHO security products, also represents a new approach to providing security to the SME market in that the products are designed to be expandable both to incorporate additional features and to provide increased performance, and we may be unsuccessful in marketing and selling this type of product or the upgrades necessary for customers to take advantage of the expandability. If customers purchase less expensive models than they otherwise would because of the ability to later upgrade the product, but then fail to purchase upgrades, our revenues from those products would be negatively affected. In addition, we may have to continue to increase discounts on the old Firebox SOHO product line to maintain an acceptable level of sales, which could also have a material adverse affect on our revenues and results of operations. If sales of our Firebox products do not meet expectations, we may have excess inventory of products or components, and such excess inventory would have a negative effect on our operating results. To receive our LiveSecurity Service and other optional services, enterprises are required to pay an annual subscription fee, either to us or, if they obtain the service through one of our channel customers, to the channel customer. SMEs may be unwilling to pay a subscription fee to keep their Internet security up to date and to receive Internet security-related information or to obtain additional security-related features and services. Because our LiveSecurity Service is an innovative service, and our other subscription services are new and unproven, we may not be able to accurately predict the rate at which our customers will renew their annual subscriptions. In addition, most businesses implementing security services have traditionally managed their own Internet security rather than using the services of third-party service providers. As a result, our products and services and the outsourcing of Internet security to third parties may not achieve significant market acceptance. If we are unable to compete successfully in the highly competitive market for Internet security products and services for any reason, including because current or potential competitors gain competitive advantage through partnering or acquisition, our business will fail. The market for Internet security products is intensely competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. An increase in competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in pricing reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. Currently, the primary competitors in our industry include Check Point Systems, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Fortinet Inc., Juniper Networks, Inc., Nokia Corporation, SonicWALL, Inc. and Symantec Corporation. Other competitors offering security products include hardware and software vendors such as Network Associates, Inc., operating system vendors such as Microsoft Corporation, Novell, Inc. and Sun Microsystems, Inc., and a number of smaller companies. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, many of our smaller competitors that specialize in providing protection from a single type of Internet security threat are often able to deliver these specialized Internet security products to the market more quickly than us. Our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their resources. In addition, current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources, as has happened as a result of Juniper’s acquisition of Netscreen Technologies, Inc. As a result of such acquisitions, our current or potential competitors might be able to adapt more quickly to new 24 Table of Contents technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly. In addition, our competitors may bundle products competitive with ours with other products that they may sell to our current or potential customers. These customers may accept these bundled products rather than separately purchasing our products. While some of our competitors have traditionally targeted either large-enterprise security needs or consumer security needs, these vendors could adapt their existing products to make them more attractive to our markets. If these or other of our competitors were to focus their greater financial, technical and marketing resources on our markets, our business could be harmed. In addition, as our security solutions are adopted by larger enterprises, we expect to see increased competition from our competitors that traditionally target large-enterprise security needs. Increased competition in any of our markets could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. We rely on third-party channel customers to generate most of our revenues, and if they fail to perform, our ability to sell our products and services will be limited. We sell most of our products and services through our distribution network, and we expect our success to continue to depend in large part on the performance of this network. To the extent our channel customers are unsuccessful selling our products, or we are unable to partner with and retain a sufficient number of channel customers in each of the regions in which we sell products, our ability to sell our products and services will be limited. Our channel customers also have the ability to sell products and services that are competitive with ours, to devote more resources to those competitive products or to cease selling our products and services altogether. The loss of one or more of these channel customers, a reduction in their sales or a reduction in our share of their sales of Internet security products, particularly if any such changes result in increased sales of competitive products, could harm our business. In addition, we are still in the process of reorganizing our channel in the Asia Pacific region and, particularly, Japan. If this reorganization causes disruption, we could experience a loss or reduction in sales involving one or more of our channel customers. Channel customers often specialize in selling certain types of products or in selling to specific segments of the market. To be successful, we must therefore have the right channel customers selling our products in the appropriate market segments as well as have a sufficient number of channel partners selling our products. To the extent that we are unable to partner with and retain the right channel customers to sell our products, or we introduce new products that our channel customers are unable to sell effectively, our ability to sell our products and services will be limited. For example, our Firebox X Peak product line recently introduced in April 2005 is targeted at SME customers that are typically larger or more sophisticated in their use of the Internet than those buying our other Firebox X products. If our current channel customers are unable to sell this product line effectively, of if we are unable to join with and retain channel customers that can sell this product line effectively, our ability to sell this product line and related services may be limited. The requirement to recognize revenue on a sell through basis for certain third-party channel customers due to contractual changes could negatively affect our future revenues. We recognize revenue from certain of our channel customers when we sell product to them (the “sell in” method). Where the customer is a distributor with unlimited stock returns and rotation rights, product revenues are not recognized until the distributors sell the products to their customers (the “sell through” method). During the first quarter of 2005, we negotiated changes in contractual obligations with certain channel customers in North America, Australia and New Zealand which provided such customers with unlimited return rights. The changes were triggered by the need to offer promotional programs to give us the flexibility in the respective markets to be more competitive, responsive and effective. As a result of these contract changes, we converted these customers to a sell through method beginning in the first quarter of 2005. When a channel customer is converted from the sell in method to the sell through method of revenue recognition, revenue can no longer be recognized when product is sold to the channel customer, because revenue from products in that channel 25 Table of Contents customer’s inventory was already recognized in prior periods. Therefore, revenue on individual inventory items sold subsequent to the conversion can only be recognized after the converted channel customer has disposed of its inventories predating the conversion. As of December 31, 2004, the converted customers held inventories for which we had already recognized revenues in the amount of $2.3 million. Substantially all of these inventories were sold through by the converted customers during the first quarter of 2005. While the contractual changes and the resulting conversion of these customers from a sell in method to a sell through method of revenue recognition resulted in a reduction of revenues during the first quarter of 2005, the total effect of this reduction cannot be measured reliably due to a change in customer-buying patterns upon conversion to the sell through method. We plan on taking similar measures with customers in EMEA in the second and third quarters of 2006, with the majority of the EMEA conversions planned for the second quarter of 2006, and are evaluating taking similar measures with our customers in our remaining geographic locations. To the extent additional channel customers are converted, there will be a material adverse effect on revenues and results of operations for the quarter in which those conversions take place, with the magnitude depending on the inventory levels with those channel customers at the time of conversion. To recognize revenue on a sell through method from a channel customer, we will need to continue to obtain adequate reporting on inventory levels from that channel customer to determine how much of our product has been sold to the end customers. If we are unable to obtain such reporting, our ability to recognize revenue from such channel customers could be materially adversely affected and our financial results would be harmed. Product returns, retroactive price adjustments and rebates could exceed our allowances, which could adversely affect our operating results. We provide most of our channel customers with product return rights for stock rotation and price protection rights for their inventories, which they may exercise if we lower our prices for those products. We also provide promotional rebates to some of our channel customers. We may experience significant returns, price adjustments and rebate costs for which we may not have adequate allowances, particularly with the introduction of our Firebox X product line, which replaced our Firebox III product line. The short life cycles of our products and the difficulty of predicting future sales increase the risk that new product introductions or price reductions by us or our competitors could result in significant product returns or price adjustments, and we expect to introduce new products in 2006. When we introduced the Firebox II, the Firebox III and then later the Firebox X Core and Firebox X Edge security appliances, we experienced an increase in returns of previous products and product versions. While we review and adjust our provision for returns and allowances in order to properly reflect the potential for promotional rebate costs, increased returns and pricing adjustments associated with the introduction of new products, such as the Firebox X product line, including the recent release of the Firebox X Peak product line and Fireware operating system in the second quarter of 2005, the provision may still be inadequate. An increase in the provision for returns and allowances will result in the reduction of revenues. Customer demand, competitive pressure and rapid changes in technology and industry standards could render our products and services unmarketable or obsolete, and we may be unable to introduce new or improved products and services, or update existing products or services, timely and successfully. To succeed, we must continually change and improve our products, add new products and services, provide updates to products and services and replace existing products and services in response to changes in customer demand, competitive pressure, rapid technological developments and changes in operating systems, Internet access and communications, application and networking software, computer and communications hardware, programming tools, computer language technology and computer hacker techniques. We may be unable to successfully and timely develop and introduce these new, improved or updated products and services or achieve and maintain market acceptance for new, improved or updated products and services we develop and introduce. The development and introduction of new, technologically advanced Internet security products and services, or providing updates to existing products or services, is a complex and uncertain process that requires great 26 Table of Contents innovation, the ability to anticipate technological and market trends, the ability to deliver updates to a large customer base efficiently and in a timely fashion and the ability to obtain required domestic and foreign governmental and regulatory certifications. Because Internet security technology is complex and often contains encryption technology, it can require long development, testing and certification periods. Releasing new or improved products and services, or updates to products or services, prematurely may result in quality problems, and releasing them late may result in loss of customer confidence and market share. In the past, we have experienced delays in the scheduled or expected introduction of new, improved and updated products and services, and in the future we may experience delays, or be unable to introduce an expected new, improved or updated product or service at all. When we do introduce new or enhanced products and services, we may be unable to successfully manage the transition from the older products and services to minimize disruption in customer-ordering patterns, avoid excessive inventories of older products and deliver enough new products and services to meet customer demand. In the past, when we have introduced new or improved products or services, we have experienced issues with the transition, which had an adverse effect on our operating results, and we expect to introduce new products and services in 2006. These have included, but were not limited to, issues such as excess inventories of products that were replaced that we had difficulty selling as customer demand for those product decreased, shortages of new product due to manufacturing and delivery issues that prevented us from delivering enough new product to meet demand and lower-than-expected initial sales of new or improved products as our sales personnel and channels adapted to selling the new or improved products or services. Seasonality and concentration of revenues at the end of the quarter could cause our revenues to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. The growth rate of our domestic and international sales has been and may in the future be lower in the summer months, when businesses often defer purchasing decisions. Also, as a result of customer-buying patterns and the efforts of our sales force to meet or exceed quarterly and year-end quotas, historically we have received a substantial portion of a quarter’s sales orders and earned a substantial portion of a quarter’s revenues during the quarter’s last month and the latter half of the last month. If expected revenues at the end of any quarter are delayed, our revenues for that quarter could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. We may be unable to deliver our products and services if component manufacturers fail to supply component parts with acceptable quantity, quality and cost. We obtain the component parts for our hardware from a variety of manufacturers. Companies in the electronics industry regularly experience lower-than-required component allocations, and the industry is subject to frequent component shortfalls. We have experienced such component shortfalls recently, with memory and flash component manufacturers providing these components on a limited allocation basis only. Although we have found additional or replacement sources for hardware components in the past, it is possible that we might not be able to find additional or replacement sources for our hardware components to address future shortfalls. Even if we find replacement sources, our operations could be disrupted or negatively affected if we have to add or switch to a replacement vendor, if our component supply is interrupted for an extended period or if the costs of the components increase due to shortages, which could result in loss of customer orders and revenue. We may be unable to deliver our products and services if manufacturers fail to supply finished product with acceptable quantity, quality and cost. We rely on third-party contract manufacturers for the assembly of all of our security appliance hardware platforms and for the design of certain of our security appliance hardware platforms. If a third-party manufacturer fails to or inadequately performs its obligations, we may be required to find a replacement, possibly on relatively short notice. Moreover, our contract manufacturers may not be able to react quickly if our forecasts exceed or fall short of our predictions. Even if we are able to find a replacement source for these finished 27 Table of Contents products on a timely basis, our operations could be disrupted if we have to add or switch to a replacement manufacturer, particularly if we were required to replace or redesign a hardware platform, or if our finished goods supply is interrupted for an extended period, which could result in loss of customer orders and revenue. We may be unable to deliver our products and services if we cannot continue to license third-party technology that is important for the functionality of our products or for delivering new products. Our success will depend in part on our continued ability to license technology that is important for the functionality of our products and for the delivery of new products based on third-party technology. A significant interruption in the supply of a third-party technology, including open source software, could delay our development and sales of existing, updated or new products until we can find, license and integrate equivalent technology. This could damage our brand and result in loss of current and potential customers. Although we believe that we could find other sources for the technology we license, alternative technologies may be unavailable on acceptable terms, if at all. We depend on our third-party licensors to deliver reliable, high-quality products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis and respond to evolving technology and changes in industry standards. We also depend on the continued compatibility of our third-party software with future versions of our products. If we do not retain our key employees, if changes to the management team cause disruption or if new management team members fail to perform, our ability to formulate and execute our business strategy will be impaired. Our future success will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our senior management and our key development, technical, finance and accounting, operations, information systems, customer support and sales and marketing personnel, and on our ability to retain them. These employees are not obligated to continue their employment with us and may leave us at any time. In addition, there have been changes to our management and development teams recently, including the addition of a new chief executive officer and interim chief financial officer in 2004, and a new vice president of North American sales, a new vice president of channel marketing and a new chief financial officer in 2005. If these changes have a negative effect on our operations, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Because many potential customers do not fully understand or remain unaware of the need for comprehensive and up-to-date Internet security, may perceive it as costly and difficult to implement, or may not understand the components of comprehensive Internet security well enough to effectively compare competitive offerings, our products and services may not achieve market acceptance. We believe that many potential customers, particularly SMEs, do not fully understand or are not aware of the need for comprehensive and up-to-date Internet security products and services, and also may not fully understand the components of comprehensive Internet security well enough to effectively compare competitive offerings. Any inability to effectively compare competitive offerings may give companies with greater resources or more recognizable brands a competitive advantage over us. We will therefore not succeed unless the market understands the need for comprehensive and up-to-date Internet security and we can convince our potential customers of our ability to provide this security in an integrated, cost-effective and administratively feasible manner. Although we have spent, and will continue to spend, considerable resources educating potential customers about the need for comprehensive and up-to-date Internet security and the benefits of our products and services, our efforts may be unsuccessful. We may be unable to adequately expand and adapt our operational systems to accommodate growth or recent changes in how we deliver our products and services to customers, which could harm our ability to deliver our products and services. Our operational systems have not been tested at the customer volumes that may be required in the future. In addition, our operational systems required for the delivery of products and services through license-key 28 Table of Contents activation were not originally designed for the combination of the number of product and service offerings and customer volumes that may be required in the future, and we will have to update and expand our operational systems to accommodate this activity. We may be unable to update and expand our operational systems in a timely fashion or without disruption to our business, and we may encounter performance difficulties when operating with a substantially greater number of customers or a substantially greater number of products and services offered through license-key activation or a combination of the two. These difficulties could harm our ability to deliver our products and services. An inability to add software and hardware or to develop and upgrade existing technology or operational systems to handle increased traffic or increased number of products and services offered through license-key activation may cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times and poor customer service, including problems filling customer orders. Undetected product errors or defects could result in loss of revenues, delayed market acceptance and claims against us. Our products and services may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first released. Despite extensive testing, some errors are discovered only after a product has been installed and used by customers. Any errors discovered after commercial release could result in loss of revenues or claims against us or our channel customers. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with the alleged or actual failure of our products and services. Because our products and services provide and monitor Internet security and may protect valuable information, we may face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty relating to our products and services. Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate the confidential information or other property of end-users using our products and services or interrupt their operations. If that happens, affected end-users or channel customers may sue us. In addition, we may face liability for breaches caused by faulty installation and implementation of our products by end-users or channel customers. Although we attempt to reduce the risk of losses from claims through contractual warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, these provisions may be unenforceable. Some courts, for example, have found contractual limitations of liability in standard software licenses to be unenforceable because the licensee does not sign the license. Defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and could divert management attention. Although we currently maintain business liability insurance, this coverage may be inadequate or may be unavailable in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. A breach of security could harm public perception of our products and services. We will not succeed unless the marketplace is confident that we provide effective Internet security protection. Even networks protected by our software products may be vulnerable to electronic break-ins and computer viruses. If an actual or perceived breach of Internet security occurs in an end-user’s systems, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to us, the market perception of the efficacy of our products and services could be harmed. This could cause us or our channel customers to lose current and potential customers or cause us to lose potential channel customers. Because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. If we are unable to prevent attacks on our internal network system by computer hackers, public perception of our products and services will be harmed. Because we provide Internet security, we are a significant target of computer hackers. We have experienced attacks by computer hackers in the past and expect attacks to continue. If attacks on our internal network system are successful, public perception of our products and services will be harmed. 29 Table of Contents We may be unable to adequately protect our operational systems from damage, failure or interruption, which could harm our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers. Our operations, customer service, reputation and ability to attract and retain customers depend on the uninterrupted operation of our operational systems. Although we utilize limited off-site backup facilities and take other precautions to prevent damage, failure or interruption of our systems, our precautions may be inadequate. Any damage, failure or interruption of our computer or communications systems could lead to service interruptions, delays, loss of data and inability to accept and fill customer orders and provide customers with our LiveSecurity Service and other optional services. Governmental controls over the export or import of encryption technology could cause us to lose sales. Any additional governmental regulation of imports or exports or failure to obtain required export approval of our encryption technologies in a timely fashion, if at all, could adversely affect our international and domestic sales and operating results. The United States and various other countries have imposed controls, export license requirements and restrictions on the import or export of some technologies, especially encryption technology. In addition, from time to time governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology, such as requiring the escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys. Additional regulation of encryption technology could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications. This, in turn, could result in decreased demand for our products and services. In addition, some foreign competitors are subject to less stringent controls on exporting their encryption technologies. As a result, they may be able to compete more effectively than we can in the U.S. and international Internet security markets. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may misappropriate or infringe on our patents, trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, service marks and similar proprietary rights. For example, our former Vice President of America Sales joined our competitor SonicWALL in 2005 as its Vice President of Channel Sales. We filed a complaint in federal court against this former employee and SonicWALL to prevent the misappropriation of our trade secrets and to enjoin acts of unfair competition by this former employee and SonicWALL. We may, however, be unsuccessful in protecting our trade secrets or, even if successful, any required litigation may be costly and time consuming, which could harm our business. Moreover, we face additional risk when conducting business in countries that have poorly developed or inadequately enforced intellectual property laws. While we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists, we expect piracy to be a continuing concern, particularly in international markets and as a result of the growing use of the Internet. If we fail to obtain and maintain patent protection for our technology, we may be unable to compete effectively. We have 13 issued patents and 12 patents pending, but our patent applications may not result in issued patents. Even if we secure a patent, the patent may not provide meaningful protection. In addition, we rely on unpatented proprietary technology. Because this proprietary technology does not have patent protection, we may be unable to meaningfully protect this technology from unauthorized use or misappropriation by a third party. In addition, our competitors may independently develop similar or superior technologies or duplicate any unpatented technologies that we have developed, which could significantly reduce the value of our proprietary technology or threaten our market position. 30 Table of Contents Intellectual property claims and litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. In the future, we may have to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation, regardless of its success, would probably be costly and require significant time and attention of our key management and technical personnel. Litigation could also force us to: • stop or delay selling, incorporating or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • pay damages; • enter into licensing or royalty agreements, which may be unavailable on acceptable terms; or • redesign products or services that incorporate infringing technology, which may not be technologically or economically feasible. Although we have not been sued for intellectual property infringement, we may face infringement claims from third parties in the future. The software industry has seen frequent litigation over intellectual property rights, and we expect that participants in the Internet security industry will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of products, services and competitors grows and functionality of products and services overlaps. If we do not expand our international operations and successfully overcome the risks inherent in international business activities, the growth of our business will be limited. Our ability to grow will depend in part on the expansion of our international sales and operations, which are expected to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. Sales to customers outside of the United States accounted for approximately 56% of our revenues in 2004 and 61% of our revenues in 2005. The failure of our channel customers to sell our products internationally would limit our ability to increase our revenues. In addition, our international sales are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including: • cost of customizing products for foreign countries; • export and import restrictions, such as those affecting encryption commodities and software, those requiring local content or those regulating the materials or chemicals used in manufacturing our products as well as their disposal, such as the European Union Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or WEEE, and Restriction of Use of Certain Hazardous Substances, or RoHS, directives; • difficulties in acquiring and authenticating customer information; • reduced protection of intellectual property rights and increased liability exposure; and • regional economic and political conditions. Our international sales currently are U.S. dollar-denominated. As a result, any increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies makes our products less competitive in international markets. Because of this, we may be required to denominate our sales in foreign currencies at some point in the future to remain competitive. In attempting to integrate the business and technology of any future acquisition, we could incur significant costs that may not be outweighed by any benefits of the acquisition. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire other companies, products or technologies, and these acquisitions may result in substantial costs. The costs of any future acquisitions may include costs for: • integration of operations, including combining teams and processes in various functional areas; 31 Table of Contents • reorganization or closure of operations and facilities; • integration of new technology into our products; • fees and expenses of professionals involved in completing the integration process; and • potential existing liabilities of any future acquisition target. Successful integration of the operations, technology, products, customers, suppliers and personnel of any future acquisition could place a significant burden on our management and internal resources. The diversion of the attention of our management and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. We may need additional capital and our ability to secure additional funding is uncertain. We believe that our existing available cash, cash equivalents and investments will be sufficient to meet our operating expenses, working capital needs and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our capital requirements will depend on several factors, however, including: • the rate of market acceptance of our products and services; • our ability to expand our customer base; • the growth of our sales and marketing capabilities; and • the cost of any acquisitions we may complete. Our existing capital and future revenues may therefore be insufficient to support the expenses of our operations and the expansion of our business. We may therefore need additional equity or debt capital. We may seek additional funding through: • public or private equity financings, which could result in significant dilution to stockholders; • public or private debt financings; and • capital lease transactions. Financing, however, may be unavailable to us when needed or on acceptable terms. Our stock price is volatile. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to fluctuations for a number of reasons, including: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly or annual operating results; • changes in analysts’ earnings projections or recommendations; • failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings projections; • inability to successfully implement our business strategy; • changes in business conditions affecting our customers, our competitors and us; and • changes in accounting standards that adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. In recent years, moreover, the stock market in general and the market for Internet-related technology companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, often unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Our common stock has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, these fluctuations in price, regardless of our performance. 32 Table of Contents We are the subject of litigation, which may be expensive and may be time consuming for our management team. On April 8, 2005, a holder of our common stock, on behalf of himself and purportedly on behalf of a class of our stockholders, filed an action in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington, or the Court, against us and some of our current and former officers, alleging violations of the federal securities laws arising out of, among other things, our announcement on March 15, 2005 that we were restating some of our financial results for interim periods of 2004. Subsequently, a number of other related purported class action suits also alleging violations of the federal securities laws were filed by holders of our common stock. The various actions have been consolidated by the Court, and are referred to herein as the Action. On October 3, 2005, a consolidated amended complaint was filed in the Action. We filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint. The motion is currently pending before the Washington Court. In addition, two related stockholder derivative suits were subsequently filed against some of our current and former directors and officers have subsequently been filed in the Superior Court of the State of Washington, King County and in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington, respectively, which are referred to as the Derivative Actions. Plaintiffs in the Action and the Derivative Actions seek unspecified compensatory damages. We have filed a motion to dismiss the Derivative Action in the Superior Court and obtained a stay of both of the Derivative Actions until after the resolution of our motion to dismiss the Action. We are obligated to indemnify our officers and directors to the extent permitted by applicable law in connection with the Action, and have insurance for such individuals, to the extent of the limits of the applicable insurance policies and subject to potential reservations of rights. We intend to vigorously defend against the Action and Derivative Actions. We are unable, however, to predict the ultimate outcome of the Action and Derivative Actions. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in defending against the Action and Derivative Actions and, if we are unsuccessful, we may be subject to significant damages that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Even if we are successful, defending against the Action and Derivative Actions is likely to be expensive, time consuming and may divert management’s attention from other business concerns and harm our business. In September, 2005, Michael N. Valentine, one of the defendants in a legal action we had commenced to prevent the misappropriation of our trade secrets and to enjoin the acts of unfair competition by this former employee and his new employer, SonicWALL Inc., a direct competitor, moved the Court for leave to amend his answer to our complaint to add counterclaims for libel, slander and defamation per se against us (the Counterclaims). In November 2005, over our objection, the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas granted Valentine’s motion and Valentine amended his answer to formally include the Counterclaims. We believe the Counterclaims are baseless and intend to vigorously defend against the Counterclaims. We are unable, however, to predict the ultimate outcome of the Counterclaims. At this time, we have not recorded any liability associated with the Counterclaims as the associated cost and outcome are currently not determinable. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in defending against the Counterclaims and, if we are unsuccessful, we may be subject to significant damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Even if we are successful, defending against the Counterclaims may be expensive, time consuming and may divert management’s attention from other business concerns and harm our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 33 Table of Contents 