ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The foregoing discussion and the discussion contained in Item 7 of this Form 10-K contain various “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations or beliefs concerning future events. Such statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “could,” “possible,” “plan,” “project,” “will,” “forecast” and similar words or expressions. Our forward-looking statements generally relate to our growth strategy, financial results, sales efforts, franchise expectations, store openings and related expense, and cash requirements. Although it is not possible to foresee all of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements, such factors include, among others, the risk factors that follow. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and speak only as of the date on which they are made. We believe that all material risk factors have been discussed below. Fluctuations in chicken wing prices could reduce our operating income. The primary food product used by our company-owned and franchised restaurants is chicken wings. We work to counteract the effect of the volatility of chicken wing prices, which can significantly change our cost of sales and cash flow, with the introduction of new menu items, effective marketing promotions, focused efforts on food costs and waste, and menu price increases. We also explore purchasing strategies to reduce the severity of cost increases and fluctuations. We currently purchase our chicken wings at market price. If a satisfactory long-term pricing agreement for chicken wings were to arise, we would consider locking in prices to reduce our price volatility. Chicken wing prices in 2009 averaged 39.3% higher than 2008 as the average price per pound increased to $1.70 in 2009 from $1.22 in 2008. If there is a significant rise in the price of chicken wings, and we are unable to successfully adjust menu prices or menu mix or otherwise make operational adjustments to account for the higher wing prices, our operating results could be adversely affected. For example, chicken wings accounted for approximately 25%, 21%, and 24% of our cost of sales in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, with an annual average price per pound of $1.70, $1.22, and $1.28, respectively. A 10% increase in the chicken wing costs for 2009 would have increased restaurant cost of sales by approximately $3.8 million. If the avian flu were to affect our supply of chicken wings, our operations may be negatively impacted, as prices may rise due to limited supply. Additional information related to chicken wing prices is included in Item 7 under “Results of Operations.” If we are unable to successfully open new restaurants, our revenue growth rate and profits may be reduced. To successfully expand our business, we must open new Buffalo Wild Wings® restaurants on schedule and in a profitable manner. In the past, we and our franchisees have experienced delays in restaurant openings and we may experience similar delays in the future. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could hurt our ability to meet our growth objectives, which may affect our results of operations, the expectations of securities analysts and shareholders and thus our stock price. We cannot guarantee that we or our franchisees will be able to achieve our expansion goals. Further, any restaurants that we, or our franchisees, open may not achieve operating results similar or better than our existing restaurants. If we are unable to generate positive cash flow from a new restaurant, we may be required to recognize an impairment loss with respect to the assets for that restaurant. Our ability to expand successfully will depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • Locating suitable restaurant sites in new and existing markets; • Having adequate restaurant sites due to tightening credit markets; • Negotiating acceptable lease or purchase terms for new restaurants; • Recruiting, training and retaining qualified home office, field and restaurant team members; • Attracting and retaining qualified franchisees; • Cost effective and timely planning, design and build-out of restaurants; • Obtaining building materials and hiring satisfactory construction contractors; • Obtaining and maintaining required local, state and federal governmental approvals and permits related to the construction of the sites and the sale of food and alcoholic beverages; 10 • Creating guest awareness of our restaurants in new markets; • Competition in new and existing markets; and • General economic conditions. We must identify and obtain a sufficient number of suitable new restaurant sites for us to sustain our revenue growth rate. We require that all proposed restaurant sites, whether for company-owned or franchised restaurants, meet our site selection criteria. We may make errors in selecting these criteria or applying these criteria to a particular site, or there may be an insignificant number of new restaurant sites meeting these criteria that would enable us to achieve our planned expansion in future periods. We face significant competition from other restaurant companies and retailers for sites that meet our criteria and the supply of sites may be limited in some markets. Further, we may be precluded from acquiring an otherwise suitable site due to an exclusivity restriction held by another tenant. As a result of these factors, our costs to obtain and lease sites may increase, or we may not be able to obtain certain sites due to unacceptable costs. Our inability to obtain suitable restaurant sites at reasonable costs may reduce our growth rate. Shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues. Possible shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our restaurants caused by inclement weather, terrorist attacks, natural disasters such as floods, drought and hurricanes, pandemics, the inability of our vendors to obtain credit in a tightened credit market, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements, or other conditions beyond our control could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we buy and the operations of our restaurants. Our inability to effectively manage supply chain risk could increase our costs and limit the availability of products critical to our restaurant operations. We may experience higher-than-anticipated costs associated with the opening of new restaurants or with the closing, relocating, and remodeling of existing restaurants, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Our revenues and expenses can be impacted significantly by the number and timing of the opening of new restaurants and the closing, relocating, and remodeling of existing restaurants. We incur substantial pre-opening expenses each time we open a new restaurant and other expenses when we close, relocate, or remodel existing restaurants. The expenses of opening, closing, relocating or remodeling any of our restaurants may be higher than anticipated. An increase in such expenses could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our restaurants may not achieve market acceptance in the new geographic regions we enter. Our expansion plans depend on opening restaurants in new markets where we or our franchisees have little or no operating experience. We may not be successful in operating our restaurants in new markets on a profitable basis. The success of these new restaurants will be affected by the different competitive conditions, consumer tastes, and discretionary spending patterns of the new markets as well as our ability to generate market awareness of the Buffalo Wild Wings® brand. Sales at restaurants opening in new markets may take longer to reach average annual restaurant sales, if at all, thereby affecting their profitability. New restaurants added to our existing markets may take sales from existing restaurants. We and our franchisees intend to open new restaurants in our existing markets, which may reduce sales performance and guest visits for existing restaurants in those markets. In addition, new restaurants added in existing markets may not achieve sales and operating performance at the same level as established restaurants in the market. An impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets could adversely affect our financial condition and consolidated results of operations. 11 Goodwill represents the difference between the purchase price of acquired companies and the related fair values of net assets acquired. We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. We compare the carrying value of a reporting unit, including goodwill, to the fair value of the unit. Carrying value is based on the assets and liabilities associated with the operations of that reporting unit. If the carrying value is less than the fair value, no impairment exists. If the carrying value is higher than the fair value, there is an indication of impairment. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indication of impairment exists. Factors may include, among others: a significant decline in our expected future cash flows; a sustained, significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization; a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; unanticipated competition: the testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit; and slower growth rates. Any adverse change in these factors would have a significant impact on the recoverability of these assets and negatively affect our financial condition and consolidated results of operations. We compute the amount of impairment by comparing the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. We are required to record a non-cash impairment charge if the testing performed indicates that goodwill has been impaired. We evaluate the useful lives of our intangible assets to determine if they are definite- or indefinite-lived. Reaching a determination on useful life requires significant judgments and assumptions regarding the future effects of obsolescence, demand, competition, other economic factors (such as the stability of the industry, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution channels), the level of required maintenance expenditures, and the expected lives of other related groups of assets. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, there could be an adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations. Failure of our internal controls over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that we would prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements or fraud. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. A significant financial reporting failure or material weakness in internal control over financial reporting could cause a loss of investor confidence and decline in the market price of our stock. The current economic crisis could have a material adverse impact on our landlords or other tenants in retail centers in which we or our franchisees are located, which in turn could negatively affect our financial results. If the recession continues or increases in severity, our landlords may be unable to obtain financing or remain in good standing under their existing financing arrangements, resulting in failures to pay required construction contributions or satisfy other lease covenants to us. In addition other tenants at retail centers in which we or our franchisees are located or have executed leases may fail to open or may cease operations. If our landlords fail to satisfy required co-tenancies, such failures may result in us or our franchisees terminating leases or delaying openings in these locations. Also, decreases in total tenant occupancy in retail centers in which we are located may affect guest traffic at our restaurants. All of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We are dependent on franchisees and their success. Currently, approximately 64% of our restaurants are franchised. Franchising royalties and fees represented approximately 9.3%, 10.1%, and 11.2% of our revenues during fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Our performance depends upon (i) our ability to attract and retain qualified franchisees, (ii) the franchisees’ ability to execute our concept and capitalize upon our brand recognition and marketing, and (iii) franchisees’ ability to timely develop restaurants. We may not be able to recruit franchisees who have the business abilities or financial resources necessary to open restaurants on schedule, or who will conduct operations in a manner consistent with our concept and standards. Also, our franchisees may not be able to operate restaurants in a profitable manner. Franchisees may take actions that could harm our business. Franchisees are independent contractors and are not our employees. We provide training and support to franchisees, but the quality of franchised restaurant operations may be diminished if franchisees do not operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, or if they do not hire and train qualified managers and other restaurant personnel. If franchisees do not adequately manage their restaurants, our image and reputation, and the image and reputation of other franchisees, may suffer materially and system-wide sales could significantly decline. In addition, we may also face potential claims and liabilities due to the acts of our franchisees based on agency or vicarious liability theories. 12 We could face liability from our franchisees. A franchisee or government agency may bring legal action against us based on the franchisee/franchisor relationships. Various state and federal laws govern our relationship with our franchisees and our potential sale of a franchise. If we fail to comply with these laws, we could be liable for damages to franchisees and fines or other penalties. Expensive litigation with our franchisees or government agencies may adversely affect both our profits and our important relations with our franchisees. We may be unable to compete effectively in the restaurant industry. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive. We believe we compete primarily with regional and local sports bars, casual dining and quick casual establishments, and to a lesser extent, quick service wing-based take-out concepts. Many of our direct and indirect competitors are well-established national, regional, or local chains with a greater market presence than us. Further, some competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, and other resources than us. In addition, independent owners of local or regional establishments may enter the wing-based restaurant business without significant barriers to entry and such establishments may provide price competition for our restaurants. Competition in the casual dining, quick casual and quick service segments of the restaurant industry is expected to remain intense with respect to price, service, location, concept and the type and quality of food. We also face intense competition for real estate sites, qualified management personnel, and hourly restaurant staff. Our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and our reputation for offering guests an unparalleled total experience. We believe we have built a strong reputation for the quality and breadth of our menu items as part of the total experience that guests enjoy in our restaurants. We believe we must protect and grow the value of our brand to continue to be successful in the future. Any incident that erodes consumer trust in or affinity for our brand could significantly reduce its value. If consumers perceive or experience a reduction in food quality, service, ambiance or in any way believes we failed to deliver a consistently positive experience, our brand value could suffer. Our inability to successfully and sufficiently raise menu prices could result in a decline in profitability. We utilize menu price increases to help offset cost increases, including increased cost for commodities, minimum wages, employee benefits, insurance arrangements, construction, utilities, and other key operating costs. If our selection and amount of menu price increases are not accepted by consumers and reduce guest traffic, or are insufficient to counter increased costs, our financial results could be harmed. A reduction in vendor allowances currently received could affect our costs of goods sold. During fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, vendor allowances were recorded as a reduction in inventoriable costs, and cost of sales was reduced by $6.0 million, $5.2 million, and $4.6 million, respectively. If the amount of vendor allowances is reduced, inventoriable costs may increase, as may the cost of sales. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate due to the timing of special events and other factors, including the recognition of impairment losses. Our quarterly operating results depend, in part, on special events, such as the Super Bowl® and other popular sporting events, and thus are subject to fluctuations based on the dates for such events. Historically, sales in most of our restaurants have been higher during fall and winter months based on the relative popularity of national, regional and local sporting and other events. Further, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly because of other factors, including: • Increases or decreases in same-store sales; • Fluctuations in food costs, particularly chicken wings; • The timing of new restaurant openings, which may impact margins due to the related preopening costs and initially higher restaurant level operating expense ratios; 13 • Labor availability and costs for hourly and management personnel; • Changes in competitive factors; • Disruption in supplies; • General economic conditions, consumer confidence, and fluctuations in discretionary spending; • Claims experience for self-insurance programs; • Increases or decreases in labor or other variable expenses; • The impact from natural disasters; • Fluctuations in interest rates; and • The timing and amount of asset impairment loss and restaurant closing charges. As a result of the factors discussed above, our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate significantly. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year. These fluctuations may cause future operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and shareholders. In that event, the price of our common stock would likely decrease. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified team members to operate and manage our restaurants. Our success and the success of our individual restaurants depends on our ability to attract, motivate, develop and retain a sufficient number of qualified restaurant employees, including restaurant managers, kitchen staff and wait staff. The inability to recruit, develop and retain these individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants or result in high employee turnover in existing restaurants, thus increasing the cost to efficiently operate our restaurants. This could inhibit our expansion plans and business performance and, to the extent that a labor shortage may force us to pay higher wages, harm our profitability. The loss of key executives or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could jeopardize our ability to meet our financial targets. Our success depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees. We must continue to recruit, retain, and motivate management and other employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. The loss of any of our executive officers and senior leaders could jeopardize our ability to meet our financial targets. We may not be able to obtain and maintain licenses and permits necessary to operate our restaurants. The restaurant industry is subject to various federal, state, and local government regulations, including those relating to the sale of food and alcoholic beverages. In addition, we are subject to gaming regulations with respect to our gaming operations within our nine company-owned stores in Las Vegas. The failure to obtain and maintain these licenses, permits and approvals, including food, liquor and gaming licenses, could adversely affect our operating results. Difficulties or failure to obtain the required licenses and approvals could delay or result in our decision to cancel the opening of new restaurants. Local authorities may revoke, suspend, or deny renewal of our food and liquor licenses if they determine that our conduct violates applicable regulations. The sale of alcoholic beverages at our restaurants subjects us to additional regulations and potential liability. Because our restaurants sell alcoholic beverages, we are required to comply with the alcohol licensing requirements of the federal government, states and municipalities where our restaurants are located. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require applications to state authorities and, in certain locations, county and municipal authorities for a license and permit to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises and to provide service for extended hours and on Sundays. Typically, the licenses are renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of the daily operations of the restaurants, including minimum age of guests and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling, storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. If we fail to comply with federal, state or local regulations, our licenses may be revoked and we may be forced to terminate the sale of alcoholic beverages at one or more of our restaurants. 14 In certain states we are subject to “dram shop” statutes, which generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Some dram shop litigation against restaurant companies has resulted in significant judgments, including punitive damages. Changes in employment laws or regulation could harm our performance. Various federal and state labor laws govern our relationship with our employees and affect operating costs. These laws include minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers’ compensation rates, citizenship requirements, and sales taxes. A number of factors could adversely affect our operating results, including additional government-imposed increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence and mandated health benefits, mandated training for employees, increased tax reporting and tax payment requirements for employees who receive tips, a reduction in the number of states that allow tips to be credited toward minimum wage requirements, and increased employee litigation including claims relating to the Fair Labor Standards Act. The Americans with Disabilities Act is a federal law that prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. Although our restaurants are designed to be accessible to the disabled, we could be required to make modifications to our restaurants to provide service to, or make reasonable accommodations for disabled persons. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could harm our performance. Our success depends, in part, upon the continued popularity of Buffalo, New York-style chicken wings, our other menu items, sports bars and casual dining restaurant styles. We also depend on trends toward consumers eating away from home more often. Shifts in these consumer preferences could negatively affect our future profitability. Such shifts could be based on health concerns related to the cholesterol, carbohydrate, or fat content of certain food items, including items featured on our menu. Negative publicity over the health aspects of such food items may adversely affect consumer demand for our menu items and could result in a decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants, which could materially harm our business. Smoking bans imposed by state or local laws could also adversely impact our restaurants’ performance. In addition, our success depends to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. A decline in consumer spending or in economic conditions could reduce guest traffic or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flow. Changes in public health concerns may impact our performance. Changes in public health concerns may affect consumer preferences for our products. For example, if incidents of the avian flu occur in the United States, consumer preferences for poultry products may be negatively impacted, resulting in a decline in demand for our products. Similarly, public health concerns over smoking have seen a rise in smoking bans. Such smoking bans may adversely affect our operations to the extent that such bans are imposed in specific locations, rather than state-wide, or that exceptions to the ban are given to bars or other establishments, giving patrons the ability to choose nearby locations that have no such ban. Further, growing movements to change laws relating to alcohol may result in a decline in alcohol consumption at our stores or increase the number of dram shop claims made against us, either of which may negatively impact operations or result in the loss of liquor licenses. We are carefully monitoring new laws regulating the use of transfats and requiring nutritional fact disclosures. A regional or global health pandemic could severely affect our business. A health pandemic is a disease outbreak that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. If a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its duration and severity, our business could be severely affected. We have positioned our brand as a place where people can gather together. Customers might avoid public gathering places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. A regional or global health pandemic might also adversely impact our business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in its supply chain and by causing staffing shortages in our stores. The impact of a health pandemic might be disproportionately greater than on other companies that depend less on the gathering of people together for the sale or use of their products and services. 15 A decline in visitors to any of the business districts near the locations of our restaurants could negatively affect our restaurant sales. Some of our restaurants are located near high activity areas such as retail centers, big box shopping centers and entertainment centers. We depend on high visitor rates at these businesses to attract guests to our restaurants. If visitors to these centers decline due to economic conditions, closure of big-box retailers, road construction, changes in consumer preferences or shopping patterns, changes in discretionary consumer spending or otherwise, our restaurant sales could decline significantly and adversely affect our results of operations. The acquisition of existing restaurants from our franchisees or other acquisitions may have unanticipated consequences that could harm our business and our financial condition. We may seek to selectively acquire existing restaurants from our franchisees. To do so, we would need to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable acquisition terms and obtain appropriate financing. Any acquisition that we pursue, whether or not successfully completed, may involve risks, including: • material adverse effects on our operating results, particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following the acquisition as the acquired restaurants are integrated into our operations; • risks associated with entering into markets or conducting operations where we have no or limited prior experience; and • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Future acquisitions of existing restaurants from our franchisees or other acquisitions, which may be accomplished through a cash purchase transaction, the issuance of our equity securities or a combination of both, could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our business and financial condition. Unfavorable publicity could harm our business. Multi-unit restaurant businesses such as ours can be adversely affected by publicity resulting from complaints or litigation or general publicity regarding poor food quality, food-borne illness, personal injury, food tampering, adverse health effects of consumption of various food products or high-calorie foods (including obesity), or other concerns. Negative publicity may also result from actual or alleged violations by our restaurants of "dram shop" laws which generally provide an injured party with recourse against an establishment that serves alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated party who then causes injury to himself or to a third party. Regardless of whether the allegations or complaints are valid, unfavorable publicity relating to a limited number of our restaurants, or only to a single restaurant, could adversely affect public perception of the entire brand. Adverse publicity and its effect on overall consumer perceptions of food safety, or our failure to respond effectively to adverse publicity, could have a material adverse effect on our business. There is volatility in our stock price. The market for our stock has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Factors such as announcements of variations in our quarterly financial results and fluctuations in revenue could cause the market price of our stock to fluctuate significantly. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for restaurant companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom have been granted equity compensation. The market price of our stock can be influenced by stockholders' expectations about the ability of our business to grow and to achieve certain profitability targets. If our financial performance in a particular quarter does not meet the expectations of our stockholders, it may adversely affect their views concerning our growth potential and future financial performance. In addition, if the securities analysts who regularly follow our stock lower their ratings of our stock, the market price of our stock is likely to drop significantly. 16 We may be subject to increased labor and insurance costs. Our restaurant operations are subject to federal and state laws governing such matters as minimum wages, working conditions, overtime, and tip credits. As federal and state minimum wage rates increase, we may need to increase not only the wages of our minimum wage employees but also the wages paid to employees at wage rates that are above minimum wage. Labor shortages, increased employee turnover, and health care mandates could also increase our labor costs. This in turn could lead us to increase prices which could impact our sales. Conversely, if competitive pressures or other factors prevent us from offsetting increased labor costs by increases in prices, our profitability may decline. In addition, the current premiums that we pay for our insurance (including workers' compensation, general liability, property, health, and directors' and officers' liability) may increase at any time, thereby further increasing our costs. The dollar amount of claims that we actually experience under our workers' compensation and general liability insurance, for which we carry high per-claim deductibles, may also increase at any time, thereby further increasing our costs. Further, the decreased availability of property and liability insurance has the potential to negatively impact the cost of premiums and the magnitude of uninsured losses. Our current insurance may not provide adequate levels of coverage against claims. We currently maintain insurance customary for businesses of our size and type. However, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not economically reasonable to insure, such as losses due to natural disasters. Such damages could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are dependent on information technology and any material failure of that technology could impair our ability to efficiently operate our business. We rely on information systems across our operations, including, for example, point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, collection of cash, payment of obligations, and various other processes and procedures. Our ability to efficiently manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with maintenance, upgrading or transitioning to replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in customer service and reduce efficiency in our operations. Significant capital investments might be required to remediate any problems. If we are unable to maintain our rights to use key technologies of third parties, our business may be harmed. We rely on certain technology licensed from third parties, and may be required to license additional technology in the future for use in managing our Internet sites and providing related services to users and advertising customers. These third-party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable commercial terms or at all. The inability to enter into and maintain any of these technology licenses could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We may not be able to protect our trademarks, service marks or trade secrets. We place considerable value on our trademarks, service marks and trade secrets. We intend to actively enforce and defend our marks and if violations are identified, to take appropriate action to preserve and protect our goodwill in our marks. We attempt to protect our sauce recipes as trade secrets by, among other things, requiring confidentiality agreements with our sauce suppliers and executive officers. However, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully enforce our rights under our marks or prevent competitors from misappropriating our sauce recipes. We can also not be sure that: (i) our marks are valuable, (ii) using our marks does not, or will not, violate others’ marks, (iii) the registrations of our marks would be upheld if challenged, or (iv) we would not be prevented from using our marks in areas of the country where others might have already established rights to them. Any of these uncertainties could have an adverse effect on us and our expansion strategy. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 17 ITEM 