Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information contained in this report. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer, possibly materially. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Relating to our Business We expect to continue to incur substantial losses, and we may never achieve profitability. We began operations in 1998 and have a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our current business and our prospects. We have incurred substantial and increasing operating losses in each year since inception, and we may never achieve profitability. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $152.1 million, of which $19.5 million related to preferred stock dividends that were forfeited upon the conversion of our redeemable convertible preferred stock on April 8, 2004, the closing date of our initial public offering. We expect to incur substantial net losses for the foreseeable future as we significantly expand our clinical trial activity, increase the number of our development programs, and potentially in-license and acquire technologies. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenue or obtain external financing to pay these costs. Moreover, these losses have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse impact on our working capital, total assets and stockholders’ equity. All of our revenue to date has been derived from license fees, milestone payments and research and development funding under our collaboration agreements with third parties. Substantially all of the potential revenue under these agreements depends on our reaching specified milestones or achieving product sales, neither of which is within our control. We cannot assure you that any external financing we seek will be available on favorable terms, if at all. We have not completed the development of any drugs, and we do not expect that any drugs resulting from our or our collaborators’ research and development efforts will be commercially available for a significant number of years, if at all. We do not know whether or when we will become profitable because of the significant uncertainties with respect to our ability to generate revenue from the sale of products based on our drug candidates. We will need additional financing, which may be difficult to obtain. Our failure to obtain necessary financing would adversely affect our development programs and other operations. Based on our current business plan, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, payments for research and development services and other payments required to be made by our collaboration partners should be sufficient to fund our anticipated levels of operations through the first quarter of 2007. We will, therefore, need to raise additional equity or other financing to finance our future requirements. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing on a timely basis or to enter into agreements with collaboration partners, we will have to reduce or delay our efforts with respect to certain of our drug development candidates and our exploratory research programs. We are funding or contemplating funding the development of several of our drug candidates and programs. Our most significant commitment currently is to MEM 1003, for which we are funding a multi-center Phase 2a AD clinical trial. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: Ø the number of compounds and drug candidates that we advance through the development process; Ø the funding from our collaborations with Roche and Amgen; Ø whether we are able to enter into a collaboration with regard to MEM 1003 and the terms of any such collaboration; Ø the scope and results of our and our collaborators’ clinical trials; Ø the costs involved in utilizing third party contract research organizations for preclinical studies and clinical trials; Ø the timing of, and the costs involved in, obtaining regulatory approvals; Ø the availability of third parties, and the cost, to manufacture compounds for clinical trial supply; Ø the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other patent-related costs, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation; and Ø the cost of commercialization activities, including product marketing, sales and distribution. In addition, if we are not able to obtain adequate equity or other financing to fund the development of our drug candidates and programs, we may have to obtain capital through arrangements with collaborators that require us to relinquish greater rights to our technologies or drug candidates than we might otherwise have done. 23 Failure to raise adequate capital in a timely manner would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our then existing stockholders will experience significant dilution. Our drug candidates and programs are novel and in the early stages of development. As a result, it is difficult to predict accurately if and when we will achieve the development goals we establish for these drug candidates and programs. We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery and development of novel drug candidates based on our understanding of the role played by certain biological targets in memory formation and cognition. Our current drug candidates are at an early stage of development including MEM 1003, our most clinically advanced drug candidate. Our drug candidates will require significant additional development, preclinical studies and clinical trials, regulatory clearances and additional investment by us or our collaborators before they can be commercialized. From time to time, we may establish and announce certain development goals for our drug candidates and programs; however, given the complex nature of the drug discovery and development process, it is difficult to predict accurately if and when we will achieve these goals. For example, while we have announced that we currently anticipate commencing the Phase 2a clinical trial of MEM 3454 in the first half of 2006, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve this development goal on the time schedule that we have planned. Our drug discovery and development methods are unproven and may not lead to commercially viable drugs for any of several reasons. For example, we may fail to identify appropriate targets or compounds, our drug candidates may fail to be safe and effective in preclinical and clinical trials, or we may have inadequate financial or other resources to pursue discovery and development efforts for new drug candidates. In addition, because we have limited resources, we are focusing on targets, compounds and indications that we believe are the most promising. As a result, we may forego or delay pursuit of opportunities with other targets, compounds and indications. The diseases we are targeting are poorly understood, which increases our chances of failure. Our drug development programs target a broad range of CNS conditions, many of which exhibit significant impairment of memory and other cognitive functions. These conditions include neurological diseases associated with aging, such as Alzheimer’s, and also include certain psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and depression. These diseases and their causes are poorly understood. There are no approved drugs that treat these diseases through the mechanisms used by our drug candidates, and there is only a limited scientific understanding of the relationships between these diseases and the neurological pathways targeted by our drug candidates. These uncertainties increase the risk that one or more of our drug development programs may fail. Our preclinical and clinical testing results may not be predictive of future trial results and may not be sufficient to support regulatory approval of future clinical trials. If subsequent study or trial results are unfavorable or insufficient, we may be forced to stop developing drug candidates that we currently believe are important to our future. The results of preclinical studies and early stage clinical trials of our drug candidates are not necessarily predictive of the results of subsequent preclinical studies or later stage clinical trials. Our approach to drug development involves rigorous preclinical testing with a variety of in vitro assays and animal models in order to obtain early indications of safety and efficacy. We have invested in and continue to invest substantial resources in this capability. However, our drug candidates are at an early stage of development and only one drug candidate has progressed into a Phase 2a clinical trial. As a result, we cannot determine whether our preclinical testing methodologies are predictive of clinical safety or efficacy. In addition, early stage clinical trials may not be predictive of future trial results. For example, while the preliminary cognitive data from the multiple ascending dose study of MEM 3454 demonstrated a statistically significant positive effect on one of the primary efficacy variables of that study at a certain dose level, we cannot assure you that future clinical trials of MEM 3454 will demonstrate similar results. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that the data collected from the preclinical studies and clinical trials of our drug candidates will be sufficient to support regulatory approval of our future clinical trials by the FDA or by similar agencies in other countries. As we or our collaborators obtain results from further preclinical or clinical trials, we or our collaborators may elect to discontinue or delay preclinical studies or clinical trials for certain products in order to focus our resources on more promising products. We or our collaborators may also change the indication being pursued for a particular drug candidate or otherwise revise the development plan for that compound. For each of our programs being developed under a collaboration agreement, we develop multiple drug candidates for the same class of compounds and for the same indication. Over the course of preclinical studies, these candidates may not prove to be sufficiently different to warrant pursuing them individually for the same indication, or at all. Moreover, drug candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through preclinical or initial clinical testing. If our clinical trials or those of our collaborators are unsuccessful, or if we experience significant delays in these trials, our ability to commercialize our products will be impaired. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our drug candidates, they must be subjected to extensive clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy in humans. The clinical trials of any drug candidates that we develop must comply with regulation by numerous federal, state and local government authorities in the US, principally the FDA, and by similar agencies in other countries. The requirements that clinical trials must meet include IRB, or ethics committee oversight, informed consent and good clinical practices. Securing FDA approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate’s safety and efficacy. In order for us or our collaborators to conduct human clinical trials in the US for our drug candidates, we or they must obtain and maintain an effective IND. While we have obtained an IND for MEM 1003 in Alzheimer’s disease, we cannot assure you that we or our collaborators will be successful in obtaining an IND for any other drug candidate. In connection with obtaining and maintaining an IND, we or our collaborators may be required to provide the FDA with supplementary information regarding our preclinical testing of these drug candidates and the clinical trials conducted in foreign countries. We cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfactorily address any concerns the FDA may have. If we are unable to satisfy the FDA with respect to a certain drug candidate, we may be prevented from proceeding with the development of that drug candidate in the US. In October 2005 we completed a Phase 1b safety and tolerability study of MEM 1003 in Alzheimer’s patients. In that trial, MEM 1003 was found to be safe and generally well-tolerated. In November 2005, following our submission to the FDA of certain preclinical toxicology data and the results of the Phase 1b safety and tolerability study, we commenced a Phase 2a AD clinical trial for MEM 1003. We cannot assure you that the additional studies and clinical trials that we conduct will support our earlier results for MEM 1003. From time to time during the clinical development of a drug candidate, we will be required to provide the FDA with supplementary preclinical data to support proceeding with later stage clinical trials. If we are unable to satisfy the FDA with the results of the studies we have conducted, are currently conducting or plan to conduct with respect to MEM 1003, we may face delays in completing the Phase 2a AD clinical trial or future clinical trials for MEM 1003 in the US, or we could be prevented from proceeding with MEM 1003 in the US. 24 It takes years to complete the testing of a product, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. For example, our testing may be delayed or halted due to any of the following: Ø any preclinical test or clinical trial may fail to produce safety and efficacy results satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities; Ø preclinical and clinical data could be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; Ø negative or inconclusive results from a preclinical test or clinical study or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause delays in the completion of the preclinical test or clinical study, or could cause a preclinical study or clinical trial to be repeated, additional tests to be conducted or a program to be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to the program are successful; Ø the FDA or foreign regulatory authority could impose conditions on the scope or design of a clinical trial; Ø the FDA or foreign regulatory authority could place a clinical hold on a trial if, among other reasons, it requires further information regarding certain results or events during preclinical tests or clinical trials, or it finds that patients enrolled in the trial are or would be exposed to an unreasonable and significant risk of illness or injury; Ø the FDA or foreign regulatory authority might not approve the manufacturing processes or facilities that we utilize, or the processes or facilities of our collaborators; Ø we may encounter delays in obtaining IRB approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective study site or in revising a clinical trial protocol after the clinical trial has commenced; Ø any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially viable; Ø we or our collaborators may encounter delays based on changes in regulatory agency policies during the period in which we develop a drug or the period required for review of any application for regulatory agency approval; Ø our clinical trials may not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our compounds or result in marketable products; and Ø we or our collaborators may encounter delays in obtaining a sufficient supply of a drug candidate for use in our clinical trials either due to the amount of time required to manufacture a sufficient supply for larger clinical trials or as a result of manufacturing or quality assurance issues. In addition, we or our collaborators may encounter delays based on our inability to enroll or retain a sufficient number of healthy volunteers or patients to complete our clinical trials. This could affect both our ability to complete a clinical trial in the time frame we have planned and its validity or statistical significance. Enrollment depends on many factors, including: the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of volunteers/patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study and whether recruitment from the same patient population is ongoing for clinical trials by other companies. Enrollment has become particularly challenging for clinical trials that involve patients with Alzheimer’s disease. Over the course of the Phase 2a AD clinical trial for MEM 1003 that we commenced in November 2005, we anticipate dosing up to approximately 180 patients with Alzheimer’s disease at multiple centers across the US. However, as with our Phase 1b safety and tolerability study for MEM 1003, we are experiencing slower than anticipated enrollment in the Phase 2a AD clinical trial. As a result, while we still expect to complete this Phase 2a AD clinical trial in the first half of 2007, we will not be able to achieve this goal unless the rate of patient enrollment significantly increases during this time frame. We are currently exploring alternatives for increasing the enrollment rate in the Phase 2a AD clinical trial. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in achieving and maintaining a level of patient enrollment sufficient to complete the Phase 2a AD clinical trial on the time schedule that we have planned. Delays in planned patient enrollment for a clinical study result in increased costs, program delays or both, which could have a harmful effect on our ability to develop products. We cannot assure you that our clinical trials will commence, proceed or be completed on schedule. For example, we currently anticipate commencing the Phase 2a bipolar disorder clinical trial for MEM 1003 during the first half of 2006 and completing this trial by the end of 2006. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in commencing and completing this clinical trial in the time frame that we have planned. Delays in our clinical trials or rejection of data from a clinical trial will result in increased development costs and could have a material adverse effect on the development of our drug candidates. We may not be able to succeed in our business model of seeking to enter into collaborations at early stages of development. We currently do not have a collaboration partner for MEM 1003, our most clinically advanced drug candidate. Our current strategy for developing, manufacturing and commercializing our drug candidates includes securing collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies relatively early in the drug development process and for these collaborators to undertake some or all of the clinical development and commercialization of our drug candidates. Although we have entered into three collaborations to date, each for a program still in the preclinical stage of development, it may be difficult for us to find third parties that are willing to enter into collaborations for our other development programs or programs at an early stage. If we are not able to enter into additional collaborations, we could be required to undertake and fund further development, clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing activities for these programs, at our own expense. If we do enter into other collaborations or arrangements for our other programs, we may not accurately assess the commercial potential or target market for a program and may relinquish valuable rights to that program. We have funded our MEM 1003 program on our own and, as part of that program, are currently funding a multi-center Phase 2a AD clinical trial for MEM 1003, while continuing to explore the potential for a collaboration for this drug candidate. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in entering into a collaboration for MEM 1003 on favorable terms, if at all. If, following the completion of the Phase 2a AD clinical trial, we have been unable to find a collaboration partner for MEM 1003, we may at that time choose to continue the development of MEM 1003 at our own expense. If we do so, our requirements for capital will substantially increase. Such capital might not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Alternatively, we would have to delay, substantially reduce or cease our efforts on certain of our drug candidates and/or our development or exploratory programs. 25 We are dependent upon our collaboration partners to conduct clinical trials and to manufacture, market and sell our products. Based on our strategy of securing collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that would undertake later-stage clinical development and commercialization of our products, we have entered into three collaborations to date, two with Roche and one with Amgen. These collaborations are for compounds representing three of our four development programs. We do not have day-to-day control over the activities of our collaboration partners, and we are unlikely to control the activities of any other collaborators with which we enter into agreements. Roche and Amgen have, and any other collaborators will have, significant discretion in determining the efforts and amount of resources that they dedicate to our collaborations. In addition, either Roche or Amgen or any other future collaboration partner may adhere to criteria for determining whether to proceed with clinical development of a particular compound that leads them to terminate a clinical development program under circumstances where we might have continued such a program. For example, in April 2005, Roche decided not to pursue further clinical development of the two named PDE4 inhibitor drug candidates that were being developed under the 2002 Roche Agreement, MEM 1414 and its back-up candidate, MEM 1917. In August 2005, we reacquired the rights to MEM 1414 and MEM 1917 from Roche and are currently exploring the potential for a new collaboration for these drug candidates. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in securing a new collaboration partner for these drug candidates or that we will continue their development on our own. In addition, we cannot assure you that Roche will choose to pursue the clinical development of any other PDE4 inhibitor compounds that have been identified through our collaboration under the 2002 Roche Agreement. Our ability to generate milestone payments and royalties from our collaborators depends on our collaborators’ ability to establish the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates, obtain regulatory approvals and achieve market acceptance of products developed from our drug candidates. In addition to testing and seeking regulatory approval, we are dependent on our collaborators for the manufacturing of clinical scale quantities of some of our drug candidates and would be dependent on them in the future for commercial scale manufacturing, distribution and direct sales. Our collaborators may not be successful in manufacturing our drug candidates on a commercial scale or in successfully commercializing them. Under our collaboration agreements, our collaboration partners’ termination rights include the ability to terminate the collaboration with us at any time, with or without cause, on relatively short notice. Future collaboration partners, if any, are also likely to have the right to terminate the collaboration on relatively short notice. In addition, under our Amended and Restated 2003 Roche Agreement, Roche has the right to obtain an exclusive license for MEM 3454 following the completion of Phase 2a clinical trials by making payments to us upon our achievement of certain developmental milestones. If Roche does not exercise its option to an exclusive license to MEM 3454 or if after acquiring the license Roche terminates development of MEM 3454 before it is commercialized, we would not receive further milestone payments or be eligible for royalties with respect to MEM 3454. Our 2005 Amgen Agreement provides that upon the occurrence of certain events, including a change of control (which, under certain circumstances, could be triggered by a sale of 20% of our shares), certain rights and obligations under that agreement terminate (subject to reinstatement in certain cases), including our right to participate in the collaboration and Amgen’s obligations to fund our research and development and to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize PDE10 inhibitors. If Roche, Amgen or any future collaborator terminates its collaboration with us or fails to perform or satisfy its obligations to us, the development or commercialization of our drug candidates being developed under those collaborations would be significantly delayed or halted and our ability to realize milestone payments and royalty revenue would be adversely affected. Our collaborations are subject to many risks, which could prevent us from developing and commercializing our drug candidates. We are dependent on our collaboration partners for drug development and commercialization. Our existing collaborations and any future collaboration may not be scientifically or commercially successful. In addition, any collaboration partner may be unwilling or unable to fulfill its obligations to us, including its development and commercialization responsibilities in respect of our drug candidates. Additional risks that we face in connection with our collaborations include the following: Ø our collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products and services that are similar to or competitive with the products that are the subject of the collaboration with us; Ø collaborators may underfund or not commit sufficient resources to the testing, marketing, distribution or other development of our products; Ø our collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or they may utilize our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or potentially invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential liability; Ø our collaborators may encounter conflicts of interest, changes in business strategy or other business issues which could adversely affect their willingness or ability to fulfill their obligations to us (for example, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their priorities following mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries); and Ø disputes may arise between us and our collaborators delaying or terminating the research, development or commercialization of our drug candidates, resulting in significant litigation or arbitration that could be time-consuming and expensive, or causing our collaborators to act in their own self-interest and not in the interest of our stockholders. 26 Collaborations with pharmaceutical companies and other third parties often are terminated or allowed to expire. The termination of any collaboration that we enter into could adversely affect the future prospects of drug candidates being developed under that collaboration and our ability to commercialize those drug candidates. Any termination or expiration of a collaboration would adversely affect us financially and could harm our business reputation. In such event, we might be required to devote additional resources to a development program or a drug candidate, seek a new collaborator, or abandon the development of a drug candidate, or an entire development program, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition to our collaborations, we are dependent on certain license relationships. We have in-licensed technology that is important to our business, and we may enter into additional licenses in the future. For example, we hold a license from Bayer for intellectual property relating to MEM 1003. Our license from Bayer imposes on us development and commercialization obligations, milestone and royalty payment obligations and other obligations. Other licenses to which we are a party contain, and we expect that any future in-licenses will contain, similar provisions. If we fail to comply with these obligations to Bayer or to any other licensor, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we would not be able to commercialize drug candidates or technologies that were covered by the license. Also, the milestone and other payments associated with these licenses could make it less profitable for us to develop drug candidates utilizing these drug candidates and technologies. In the event that our license agreements are terminated, we may not be able to obtain licenses for alternative drug candidates or technologies on terms favorable to us, if at all. If any of our licensors terminates or breaches its agreement with us, such termination or breach could have a material adverse effect on our business. We face intense competition in the development and commercialization of our drug candidates. The development and commercialization of new drugs is highly competitive. There are a number of companies that focus on the CNS disease markets that we are addressing. We face competition from major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide. Additionally, various large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and public agencies are developing and using technologies to address the treatment of cognitive disorders. Many of our competitors possess greater financial, managerial, scientific and technical resources than we do and have significantly more experience in preclinical testing, human clinical trials, product manufacturing, the regulatory approval process and marketing and distribution than we do, all of which put us at a competitive disadvantage. We face and will continue to face competition in the discovery, in-licensing, development and commercialization of our drug candidates, which could severely impact our ability to generate revenue or achieve significant market acceptance of our drug candidates. Furthermore, new developments, including the development of other drugs and technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, such as vaccines, occur in the pharmaceutical industry at a rapid pace. These developments could render our drug candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. We are aware that there are a number of drugs under development by both large pharmaceutical companies and small biotechnology companies for additional treatments of Alzheimer’s, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and depression. We depend on our key scientific and other key personnel and have recently experienced turnover in our key senior management. If we are not able to retain our key scientific and other key personnel or recruit additional scientific and technical personnel, our business will suffer. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our senior management and key scientific and technical personnel, particularly James R. Sulat, our President and Chief Executive Officer and Dr. David A. Lowe, our Chief Scientific Officer. Our employment agreements with these executive officers are terminable by us or the executive without notice. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have an adverse impact on our business and prospects. We do not carry key man life insurance on any of our key personnel. 27 We have experienced turnover in our senior management and we have also added new members to our senior management team. If we continue to experience turnover of senior management, our business, our stock price and investor confidence in us may be adversely affected. In addition, we face competition for research scientists and technical staff from other companies, academic institutions, government entities, nonprofit laboratories and other organizations. To pursue our product development plans, we will need to hire additional management personnel and additional qualified scientific personnel to perform research and development. If we cannot continue to attract and retain, on acceptable terms, the qualified personnel necessary for the continued development of our business, we may not be able to sustain our operations or grow. If third-party contract research organizations do not perform in an acceptable and timely manner, our preclinical testing or clinical trials could be delayed or unsuccessful. We do not have the ability to conduct our preclinical testing or clinical trials independently and have limited experience in conducting clinical trials. In addition to our collaborators, we rely and will continue to rely on preclinical and clinical investigators, third-party contract research organizations and consultants to perform some or all of the functions associated with preclinical testing or clinical trials. From time to time, preclinical and clinical investigators, third-party contract research organizations and consultants have not performed in a manner that we believed was acceptable or timely. In each case we have discussed and resolved these issues with the vendor, and none of these issues have led to a material delay or other material adverse effect on our preclinical testing or clinical trials. However, the failure of any vendor to perform in an acceptable and timely manner in the future, including in accordance with any applicable regulatory requirements or preclinical testing or clinical trial protocol, could cause a delay or other material adverse effect on our preclinical testing, clinical trials and ultimately on the timely advancement of our development programs. If we or our collaborators cannot locate acceptable contractors to run a portion of our or our collaborators’ preclinical testing or clinical trials or enter into favorable agreements with them, or if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, satisfy FDA and other US and foreign legal and regulatory requirements for the conduct of preclinical testing and clinical trials or meet expected deadlines, our preclinical or clinical development programs and those of our collaborators could be delayed and otherwise adversely affected. If we or our collaborators fail to obtain regulatory clearance for our current or future drug candidates, we will be unable to market and sell any products and therefore may never be able to generate product revenue or be profitable. We or our collaborators will be required to obtain from the FDA and to maintain an effective IND to conduct human clinical trials in the US and must obtain and maintain regulatory approval for commercial distribution. This process is expensive, uncertain and takes many years. In order to obtain regulatory clearance to conduct clinical trials in the US and eventually obtain approval in the US, we or our collaborators must provide the FDA with data sufficient to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of each drug candidate. None of our drug candidates is currently approved for sale by the FDA or by any other regulatory agency in the world, and our drug candidates may never be approved for sale or become commercially viable. If we, either alone or with collaborators, are unable to successfully complete clinical trials of any of our current or future drug candidates, or if the results of these trials are not positive or are only modestly positive, we or our collaborators may not be able to obtain marketing approval for any drugs or may obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as we wanted. If this occurs, our business will be materially harmed, our ability to generate revenue will be severely impaired and our stock price may decline. In addition, during the clinical development of our drug candidates, the policies of the FDA may change and additional regulations may be enacted which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our drug candidates. Moreover, increased attention to the containment of health care costs in the US and in foreign markets could result in new government regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action, either in the US or abroad. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products abroad. We intend to have our products marketed outside the US. In order to market our products in the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we or our collaborators must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process entails all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We and our collaborators may fail to obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign 28 regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. We and our collaborators may not be able to file for, and may not receive, necessary regulatory approvals to commercialize our products in any market. If we or our collaborators fail to obtain these approvals, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our potential products may not be commercially viable if we or our collaborators fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for these products by Medicare and other third-party payors or if the pricing for these products is set at unsatisfactory levels by foreign countries. Our commercial success will depend in part on third-party payors such as government health administration authorities, including Medicare, private health insurers and other organizations agreeing to reimburse patients for the costs of our products. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Because most persons suffering from Alzheimer’s disease are elderly, we expect that coverage for any products that we and our collaborators successfully develop to treat Alzheimer’s disease in the US will be provided primarily through the Medicare program. Our business would be materially adversely affected if the Medicare program were to determine that our drugs are “not reasonable and necessary” and deny reimbursement of our or our collaborators’ prospective products. Our business could also be adversely affected if the Medicare program or other reimbursing bodies or payors limit the indications for which our or our collaborators’ prospective products will be reimbursed to a smaller set of indications than we believe is appropriate. In some foreign countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take 6 to 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we or our collaborators may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our products to other available therapies. If reimbursement for our products in foreign countries is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed. If physicians and patients do not accept our product candidates, we may be unable to generate significant revenue. Even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, they still may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, which would limit our ability to generate revenue and would adversely affect our results of operations. Physicians will not recommend products developed by us or our collaborators until clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products as compared to other available treatments. In addition, competitors may be more effective in marketing their drugs. Even if the clinical safety and efficacy of products developed from our drug candidates is established, physicians may elect not to recommend these products for a variety of factors, including the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors. We have no manufacturing capacity and depend on third parties to supply us with the compounds under development, to develop effective formulations and to manufacture our products. We have no manufacturing experience, and we currently lack the resources and capability to develop formulations and manufacture any of our drug candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. We do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of our drug candidates under development, and we do not currently intend to do so in the foreseeable future. As a result, we are dependent on third parties, including our collaboration partners, for the formulation and manufacture of clinical and commercial scale quantities of our drug candidates. If we or our collaborators are unable to secure an adequate supply of our compounds under development, or if the third parties we contract with are unable to develop effective formulations or to timely manufacture our drug candidates for our clinical trials in accordance with our specifications and timely deliver the drug candidates to the appropriate clinical trial sites, we may encounter delays in our clinical trials. Although we believe that there are an adequate number of suppliers for compounds such as ours, we could experience a shortage of suppliers, or an interruption in supply if a supplier relationship were terminated, that could have an adverse effect on our or our collaborators’ ability to supply products. In addition, in the event of a natural disaster, equipment failure, power failure, strike or other difficulty, we may be unable to replace our third-party manufacturers in a timely manner. Manufacturing of our products must meet applicable regulatory standards. We, our collaborators and our third-party manufacturers are required to adhere to federal current GMP requirements. Under these requirements, our drug candidates must be manufactured and our records maintained in a prescribed manner with respect to manufacturing, testing, quality control and other activities. Furthermore, the manufacturing facilities used by us or our collaborators 29 must pass a pre-approval inspection by the FDA and foreign authorities before obtaining marketing approval, and will be subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities. These inspections may result in compliance issues that could prevent or delay marketing approval, result in interruption or shortage of clinical or commercial product or require the expenditure of money or other resources to correct. We cannot control these manufacturing facilities’ compliance with FDA requirements and may be limited to certain contractual remedies and rights of inspection. If these manufacturing facilities fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may not be granted approval for marketing, and we could, among other things, be subject to fines, total or partial suspension of production, withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. We face the risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain insurance. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the development of drugs. If the use of one or more of our or our collaborators’ drugs harms people, we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims brought against us by clinical trial participants, consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. We have product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials up to an aggregate of $10.0 million annually, with a deductible of $25,000 per claim. We believe that this coverage is consistent with industry practice, but we cannot predict all of the possible harms or side effects that may result and, therefore, the amount of insurance coverage we currently hold may not be adequate to cover all liabilities we might incur. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for our drug candidates in development, but we may be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. If we are unable to obtain insurance at an acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we will be exposed to significant liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial position. If we are sued for any injury allegedly caused by our or our collaborators’ products, our liability could exceed our total assets and our ability to pay the liability. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us would decrease our cash and could cause our stock price to fall. Our or our collaborators’ products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. We or they may be subject to penalties if we or they fail to comply with post-approval regulatory requirements or experience unanticipated problems with any approved products. If we or our collaborators obtain marketing approval for a product, that product, along with the associated manufacturing processes, any post-approval clinical data and the advertising and promotional activities for the product will be subject to continual regulatory requirements, review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to other restrictive conditions of approval. Furthermore, any approval may contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, supplier processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in: Ø product recalls; Ø revocation of previously granted approvals; Ø the need to conduct additional clinical trials; and Ø fines and other censures. We or our collaborators may be slow to adapt, or we or they may not be able to adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements or policies. Our business activities require compliance with environmental laws. If we violate these laws, we could be subject to significant fines, liabilities or other adverse consequences. Our research and development programs involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. Accordingly, we are subject to federal, state and local laws governing the use, handling and disposal of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply in all material respects with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In addition, our collaborators may not comply with these laws. In the event of such an accident or failure to comply with environmental laws, we could be held liable for damages that result, and any such liability could exceed our assets and resources. 30 Risks Relating to Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain intellectual property protection for our chemical compounds and research tools, the value of our technology and products will be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our drug candidates, technology and know-how. Our policy is to seek to protect our chemical compounds and technologies by, among other methods, filing US and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. We, our collaborators or our licensors file patent applications directed to all drug candidates in an effort to establish intellectual property positions regarding new chemical entities relating to our drug candidates as well as uses of new chemical entities in the treatment of CNS disorders. The patent positions of companies like ours are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our ability to maintain and solidify our proprietary position for our technology will depend on our success in obtaining effective patent claims and enforcing those claims once granted. We do not know whether any of our patent applications or those patent applications that we license will result in the issuance of any patents. Our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future, or those licensed to us, may be challenged, invalidated, rendered unenforceable or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products for the length of term of patent protection that we may have for our or our collaborators’ products. In addition, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages against competitors with similar compounds or technologies. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us in a manner that does not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any of our products or those developed by our collaborators can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantages of the patent. We rely on trade secrets and other confidential information to maintain our proprietary position. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on protection of trade secrets, know-how and confidential and proprietary information. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we have entered into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. Our agreements with employees also provide that inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances, and individuals with whom we have these agreements may not comply with their terms. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or proprietary information, these agreements, even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other confidential information. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use technology or know-how owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related inventions. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. The disclosure of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors, which could be expensive and time consuming. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover its technology. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Interference proceedings brought by the US Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and be a distraction to our management. We may not be able, alone or with our 31 collaborators and licensors, to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the US. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Under our agreement with Bayer, we have the first right, but not the obligation, to enforce the patent rights covered under the agreement with respect to infringement or interference by any third party. Under our collaborations with Roche, Roche generally has the first right to bring an action with respect to the infringement of patent rights covered under the applicable agreement. In the event that Roche does not exercise this right, we retain the right to bring the infringement action. Under our Amended and Restated 2003 Roche Agreement, prior to Roche exercising its right to obtain a license for MEM 3454, we will have the first right to bring an action with respect to the infringement of patent rights related to MEM 3454. Under our 2005 Amgen Agreement, Amgen has the sole and exclusive right to enforce the patent rights under that agreement. We may not prevail in any litigation or interference proceeding in which we are involved. Even if we do prevail, these proceedings can be very expensive and distract our management. Third parties may own or control patents or proprietary rights that are infringed by our technologies or drug candidates. Our success depends in part on avoiding the infringement of other parties’ patents and proprietary rights as well as avoiding the breach of any licenses relating to our technologies and products. In the US, patent applications filed in recent years are confidential for 18 months, while older applications are not published until the patent issues. As a result, there may be patents of which we are unaware, and avoiding patent infringement may be difficult. We may inadvertently infringe third-party patents or proprietary rights. These third parties could bring claims against us, our collaborators or our licensors that even if resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if resolved against us, could additionally cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, our collaborators or our licensors, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of any infringing product in the country or countries covered by the patent we infringe, unless we can obtain a license from the patent holder. Such a license may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, particularly if the third party is developing or marketing a product competitive with the infringing product. Even if we, our collaborators or our licensors were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. We also may be required to pay substantial damages to the patent holder in the event of an infringement. Under some circumstances in the US, these damages could be triple the actual damages the patent holder incurs. If we have supplied infringing products to third parties for marketing or licensed third parties to manufacture, use or market infringing products, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for any damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses the third parties may sustain themselves as the result of lost sales or damages paid to the patent holder. Any successful infringement action brought against us, our collaborators, or our licensors may also adversely affect marketing of the infringing product in other markets not covered by the infringement action, as well as our marketing of other products based on similar technology. Furthermore, we may suffer adverse consequences from a successful infringement action against us, our collaborators or our licensors even if the action is subsequently reversed on appeal, nullified through another action or resolved by settlement with the patent holder. The damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may be significant. As a result, any infringement action against us, our collaboration partners or our licensors would likely delay the regulatory approval process, harm our competitive position, be very costly and require significant time and attention of our key management and technical personnel. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates have the ability to significantly influence all matters submitted to stockholders for approval. As of March 15, 2006, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially owned shares representing approximately 27.7% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, these executive officers, directors and their affiliates, acting as a group, have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. 32 Our stock price is subject to fluctuation, which may cause an investment in our stock to suffer a decline in value. The trading price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: Ø announcements regarding the results of preclinical tests or clinical studies involving our drug candidates; Ø disputes, modifications, terminations or other developments regarding our collaborations; Ø announcements regarding new collaborations or changes to current collaborations; Ø announcements regarding technological innovations or new products by us, our collaboration partners or our competitors; Ø changes in the market valuations of similar companies; Ø conditions or trends in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; Ø developments relating to patents and other intellectual property rights, including disputes with licensors or other third parties, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our chemical compounds or technologies; Ø FDA or international regulatory actions; Ø additions to or departures of our key personnel; Ø actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; Ø changes in financial estimates by, or expectations of securities analysts; and Ø sales of our common stock. In addition, public companies in general and companies listed on The Nasdaq National Market in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, there has been particular volatility in the market prices of securities of biotechnology and other life sciences companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources. Antitakeover provisions that we have in place could entrench our management team and delay or prevent an acquisition. These provisions could adversely affect the price of our common stock because purchasers cannot acquire a controlling interest. Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, or Certificate of Incorporation, and Amended and Restated Bylaws, or Bylaws, and applicable provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions include: Ø a classified Board of Directors; Ø limitations on the removal of directors; Ø limitations on stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders; Ø the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and Ø the ability of our Board of Directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. 33 The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation. In addition, absent approval of our Board of Directors, our Bylaws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with or acquisition of us. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and preventing a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders. As a result, these provisions may deprive you of the opportunity to sell your shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the market price of our common stock. If there are substantial sales of our common stock, our stock price could decline. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. All of the shares sold in our initial public offering in April 2004 and in our PIPE financing in September 2005 are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws, unless purchased by our “affiliates” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Substantially all other shares of our common stock are saleable under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, you will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The success of your investment in our common stock will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased your shares. 