Item 1A. Risk Factors The following industry and market factors could have an adverse effect (which could be material) on our business, results of operations or financial condition in the future: Our business is significantly dependent on sales to GM and DaimlerChrysler. We are the principal supplier of driveline components to GM for its rear-wheel drive (RWD) light trucks and SUVs manufactured in North America, supplying substantially all of GM’s rear axle and front 4WD/AWD axle requirements for these vehicle platforms. We sell products to GM under LPCs, which have terms equal to the lives of the relevant vehicle programs or their respective derivatives of typically 6 to 12 years. The LPCs establish pricing for products sold to GM and require us to remain competitive with respect to technology, design and quality. Substantially all of our sales to GM are made pursuant to the LPCs. Sales to GM were approximately 76% of our total sales in 2006, 78% in 2005 and 80% in 2003. We will compete for future GM business upon the termination of the LPCs with GM. There can be no assurance that we will remain competitive with respect to technology, design and quality to GM’s reasonable satisfaction. Pricing negotiated with GM in future agreements may be more or less favorable than the LPCs and other currently applicable agreements. A significant reduction in our sales to GM or a significant reduction by GM of its production of RWD light trucks or SUVs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Disputes arising from any current or future agreements with GM could have a material adverse impact on our relations and our results of operations and financial condition. We are also the principal supplier of driveline system products for the Chrysler Group’s heavy-duty Dodge Ram full-size pick up trucks (Dodge Ram program) and their derivatives. In total, sales to DaimlerChrysler accounted for approximately 14% of our sales in 2006, 13% in 2005 and 11% in 2004. A significant reduction in our sales to DaimlerChrysler or a significant reduction by DaimlerChrysler of its production of the Dodge Ram program could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is dependent on the rear-wheel drive light truck and SUV market segments in North America. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from products supporting RWD light truck and SUV platforms in North America. Sales and production of light trucks and SUVs could be affected by many factors, including changes in consumer demand; product mix shifts favoring other types of light vehicles, such as front-wheel drive based crossover vehicles and passenger cars; fuel prices; and government regulation, such as the Corporate Average Fuel Economy regulations (CAFE). A reduction in this market segment could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be adversely affected by work stoppages at GM or DaimlerChrysler. A substantial number of employees of our largest two customers, GM and DaimlerChrysler, and their key suppliers are represented by trade unions, including the United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW). GM and DaimlerChrysler each have agreements with the UAW that expire in September 2007. Because sales to GM and DaimlerChrysler account for approximately 90% of our sales, work stoppages at GM, DaimlerChrysler or any of their key suppliers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. Substantially all of our hourly associates worldwide are members of industrial trade unions employed under the terms of collective bargaining agreements. There can be no assurance that future negotiations with our labor unions will be resolved favorably or that we will not experience a work stoppage that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, there can be no assurance that such future negotiations will not result in labor cost increases or other terms and conditions that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition or our ability to compete for future business. 5 table of contents Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to improve our U.S. cost structure. We may not be able to achieve the level of cost reductions required to sustain global cost competitiveness in our industry segment, particularly in the U.S. A significant portion of our U.S. operations have labor agreements that are not globally cost competitive. Substantially all of our hourly associates in the U.S. are represented by the UAW. Approximately 80% of our union represented associates are covered by a national collective bargaining agreement with the UAW that expires in February 2008. This agreement provides guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout its term and ensures significant income and employment security for our UAW represented associates. This agreement limits our ability to close plants and divest businesses. This agreement may also limit our ability to change local work rules and practices to encourage flexible manufacturing and other efficiency-related improvements. Our ability to compete for future business may be adversely impacted by this agreement with the UAW and we may be unsuccessful in other cost reduction efforts related to material costs, health care, energy and other cost drivers. We may incur additional special charges and asset impairment charges. We incurred special charges and asset impairments totaling $377.9 million in 2006. We may incur additional special charges and asset impairments in the future as a result of our continued efforts to achieve cost reductions through restructuring actions. See Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K, Annual Report, section entitled “Financials - Management’s Discussion and Analysis - Results of Operations” incorporated by reference herein. Our business could be adversely affected by an increase in the price of raw materials. Worldwide commodity market conditions have resulted in ongoing increases in the cost of steel and other metallic materials. Accordingly, the cost of such steel and metallic materials needed for our products may continue to increase. If we are unable to pass these cost increases on to our customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be adversely affected by disruptions in our supply chain. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain key components and materials needed for our products. We rely upon, and expect to continue to rely upon, certain suppliers for critical components and materials that are not readily available in sufficient volume from other sources. These supply chain characteristics make us susceptible to supply shortages, price increases or work stoppages at a supplier. There can be no assurance that the suppliers of these materials will be able or willing to meet our future needs on a timely basis. A significant disruption in the supply of these materials could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our company and our customers may not be able to successfully launch new product programs on a timely basis. Certain of our customers are preparing to launch new product programs for which we will supply newly developed driveline system products and related components. Some of these new product program launches have required, and will continue to require, substantial capital investment by AAM. We may not be able to install and certify the equipment needed to produce products for these new product programs in time for the start of production. There can be no assurance that we will successfully complete the transition of our manufacturing facilities and resources to support these new product programs or any other future product programs. Accordingly, the launch of new product programs may adversely affect production rates or other operational efficiency and profitability measures at our facilities. In addition, our customers may not successfully execute the launch of these product programs, or any additional future product program for which we will supply products, on schedule. Our company may not realize all of the revenue expected from our new and incremental business backlog. The realization of incremental revenues from awarded business is inherently subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the accuracy of customer estimates relating to the number of vehicles to be produced in new and existing product programs and the timing of such production. It is also possible that our customers may choose to delay or cancel a product program for which we have been awarded new business. Our revenues, operating results, and financial position could be adversely affected relative to our current financial plans if we do not realize substantially all the revenue from our new and incremental business backlog. 6 table of contents We are under continuing pressure from our customers to reduce our prices. Annual price reductions are a common practice in the automotive industry. The majority of our products are sold under long-term contracts with prices scheduled at the time the contracts are established. Certain of our contracts require us to reduce our prices in subsequent years and most of our contracts allow us to adjust prices for engineering changes. If we must accommodate a customer’s demand for higher annual price reductions and are unable to offset the impact of any such price reductions through continued technology improvements, cost reductions and other productivity initiatives, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected . Our business faces substantial competition. The automotive industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include the driveline component manufacturing facilities of certain existing original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), as well as many other domestic and foreign companies possessing the capability to produce some or all of the products we supply. Some of our competitors are affiliated with OEMs and others have economic advantages as compared to our business, such as lower labor and benefit costs. Technology, design, quality, delivery and cost are the primary elements of competition in our industry segment. As a result of these competitive pressures and other industry trends, OEMs and suppliers are developing strategies to reduce cost. These strategies include supply base consolidation and global sourcing. Our business may be adversely affected by increased competition from suppliers benefiting from OEM affiliate relationships or financial and other resources that we do not have, including governmental assistance. Our business may also be adversely affected if we do not sustain our ability to meet customer requirements relative to technology, design, quality, delivery and cost. Our company’s global operations are subject to political and other economic risks and uncertainties. International operations are subject to certain risks inherent in conducting business outside the U.S., such as changes in currency exchange rates, tax laws, price and currency exchange controls, import restrictions, nationalization, expropriation and other governmental action. In addition, the U.S. economy may also be adversely affected by political events and domestic or international terrorist events and hostilities. These uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on the continuity of our business and our results of operations and financial condition. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. Our business could be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the automotive industry. Our operations are cyclical because they are directly related to worldwide automotive production, which is itself cyclical and dependent on general economic conditions and other factors, such as interest rates, fuel prices and consumer confidence. Our business may be adversely affected by an economic decline that results in a reduction of automotive production and sales by our largest customers. Our business may also be adversely affected by reduced demand for the product programs we currently support, or if we fail to obtain sales orders for new or redesigned products that replace our current product programs. Our company faces rising costs for pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. We have significant pension and other postretirement benefit obligations to our employees and retirees. Our ability to satisfy these funding requirements will depend on our cash flow from operations and our ability to access credit and the capital markets. The funding requirement of these benefit plans, and the related expense reflected in our financial statements, is affected by several factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, including governmental regulation. Key assumptions used to value these benefit obligations, funding requirements and expense recognition include the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on pension assets and the health care cost trend rate. If the actual trends in these factors are less favorable than our assumptions, it could have an adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. 7 table of contents We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims and litigation. We are exposed to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our products fail to perform as expected, and we may be required to participate in a recall of such products. Our largest customer, GM, has recently extended their warranty protection for new and used vehicles to 5 years or 100,000 miles. Other OEMs have also similarly extended their warranty programs. This trend will put additional pressure on the supply base to improve quality systems. This trend may also result in higher cost recovery claims by OEMs to suppliers whose products incur a higher rate of warranty claims. Historically, we have experienced negligible warranty-related expenditures due to contractual agreements with our customers and ongoing improvements in the quality, reliability and durability of our products. If our customers demand higher warranty-related cost recoveries, or if our products fail to perform as expected, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. We are also involved in various legal proceedings incidental to our business. Although we believe that none of these matters is likely to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of any such legal proceeding or any future legal proceedings. Our business is subject to costs associated with environmental, health and safety regulations. Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharge to waters and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste and other materials. We believe that our operations and facilities have been and are being operated in compliance, in all material respects, with such laws and regulations, many of which provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. The operation of automotive parts manufacturing facilities entails risks in these areas, however, and there can be no assurance that we will not incur material costs or liabilities. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with evolving environmental, health and safety laws, regulations or other pertinent requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Our company’s ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we lose key personnel. Our success depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key associates. In addition, our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. The loss of the services of our executive officers or other key associates, or the failure to attract or retain associates, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business may be adversely affected by a violation of financial covenants Our Revolving Credit Facility contains financial covenants which require us to comply with a leverage ratio and to maintain a minimum level of net worth. A violation of either of these covenants could result in a default under this facility, which would permit the lenders to accelerate the repayment of any borrowings outstanding at that time. A default or acceleration under the Revolving Credit Facility may result in defaults under our other debt agreements and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 8 table of contents Item 