Item 1A. Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 2. Properties 24 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 24 PART II 25 Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 29 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 53 Item 9. Changes In And Disagreements With Accountants On Accounting And Financial Disclosures 53 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 53 Item 9B. Other Information 54 PART III 55 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 55 Item 11. Executive Compensation 55 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 55 Item 13. Certain Relationships, Related Transactions and Director Independence 56 Item 14. Fees Paid to KPMG LLP 56 PART IV 57 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 57 SIGNATURES 59 Table of Contents SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements in this report on Form 10-K under “Business,” “Risk Factors”, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and elsewhere constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding Actuate’s expectations, beliefs or strategies regarding the future. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievement to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among other things, those listed under “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of such statements. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements contained in this Report on Form 10-K after the date hereof or to conform such statements to actual results. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements and should carefully review the risk factors described in other documents Actuate files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including current reports on Form 8-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed by Actuate during 2007. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Actuate Corporation (“We”, “Actuate” or the “Company”) was incorporated in November 1993 in the State of California and reincorporated in the State of Delaware in July 1998. Actuate provides software and services to develop and deploy Rich Internet Applications (“RIA”) that deliver rich interactive content that improve customer loyalty and corporate performance. Applications built on Actuate’s open source-based platform provide all stakeholders inside and outside the firewall, including employees, customers, partners and citizens with information that they can easily access and understand to maximize revenue, cut costs, improve customer satisfaction, streamline operations, create competitive advantage and make better decisions. Our goal is to ensure that all users can use decision-making information their day-to-day activities, opening up completely new avenues for improving corporate performance. Actuate’s telephone number is 650-645-3000. Actuate maintains a Web site at www.actuate.com. The information posted on the Web site is not incorporated into this Annual Report. In January 2006, Actuate acquired Performancesoft, Inc., (“Performancesoft”) a privately held Canadian company that offers Performance Management software and services. Actuate Performance Views, Track and BI have been specifically designed to address real-life Performance Management situations. These Rich Internet Applications with a simple-to-use web interface give users across the enterprise access to relevant Performance Management information to help them in their decision making. The combination of Performancesoft’s leading Performance Management applications and Actuate’s RIA-ready information platform provides capabilities for distributing accountability throughout the enterprise. Our customers are now able to quickly build and deploy rich, intuitive and easy to use Performance Management applications that offer managers at all levels the ability to drill-through from executive level information to real-time operational details, resulting in heightened management effectiveness and breakthrough corporate performance throughout the enterprise. Industry Background The emergence and acceptance of, as well as the dependence on, the Internet have fundamentally changed the way that consumers and businesses communicate, obtain information, purchase goods and transact business. Through the frequent and widespread usage of the Internet and more recently the emergence of RIA, users have developed a new set of expectations for accessing relevant, timely and dynamic information. 1 Table of Contents While these new user expectations have been developing, organizations have been striving to improve corporate performance. A common strategy for improving performance has been to better leverage the information captured by applications that have been implemented to manage business process such as sales, marketing, service, finance, manufacturing, distribution and human resources. Organizations have been seeking to use the captured data to make informed decisions regarding both day-to-day operations and high-level strategies. These efforts have been largely unsuccessful due to the disruptive nature of traditional Business Intelligence tools used to access and analyze this data. Because these tools demand that users invest time and effort in learning new interfaces and acquiring new skills, user adoption has been low, and as a consequence, use of decision-making information throughout the organization has been limited. In order to achieve 100% user adoption of decision-making information, and reap the resulting benefits in corporate performance, organizations are turning to developing and deploying RIA. These applications eliminate the traditional obstacles to user adoption by providing decision-making information through intuitive, Web portal-like interfaces within a context of business processes that satisfy new user expectations for information accessibility and relevance. RIA extend the usage of information outside the firewall to customers and partners. The Actuate Solution Actuate offers a portfolio of products to develop and deploy RIA that deliver rich interactive content. The Actuate product line assures that 100% of users inside and outside the firewall can gain value from all enterprise information assets. A variety of intuitive, personalized and easy to use RIA present data integrated from all relevant sources. Flexible deployment options can support all projects, no matter how small or large. Business Intelligence and Reporting: Actuate provides a complete suite of Business Intelligence and Reporting products that provide interactive web reports, brochure-quality reporting, business analytics, and spreadsheet reporting. These capabilities are delivered within an easy-to-use integrated RIA experience to maximize user adoption. Our Actuate Business Intelligence and Reporting product line provides a platform upon which Global 9000 organizations (companies with annual revenues greater than $1 billion) and packaged application software vendors develop and deploy mission-critical RIA that deliver rich interactive content. Such applications retrieve business information from corporate databases and deliver it as interactive Web pages, Excel spreadsheets, and analytic cubes to customers, partners and employees around the globe. Our products and services are used by our customers to develop and deploy RIA across a range of business functions including financial management, sales management, account management, and customer self-service. Actuate is a comprehensive platform that can be seamlessly integrated into any enterprise IT infrastructure and consists of a highly scalable and reliable server and a robust development environment for building RIA that deliver rich interactive content of any scale. Actuate’s powerful development and deployment architecture allows developers to create content from virtually any data source and present it in virtually any format required by users. Performance Management: The Actuate Performancesoft Suite of products engages the entire organization in improving performance from Metrics Management which provides management visibility into key measures of performance, to Activity Management which helps management the execution of day-to-day activities that drive performance, and Root Cause Analysis which enables user to make informed decisions to take action to address the problem at its root cause. Actuate Performancesoft Views has been designed specifically to address real-life Performance Management situations. With a simple-to-use web interface, users across the enterprise can access relevant Performance Management information to help them make the right decisions. Actuate Performancesoft Track provides executive level insight into the activities that drive organizational performance and delivers true Activity Management by providing color-coded, performance-based status into all initiatives, linked to overall strategy and communicated organization-wide. Actuate Performancesoft BI greatly simplifies the dissemination 2 Table of Contents and analysis of Performance Management information by offering users interactive, intuitive reports that drill directly from any measure in their Views scorecard to the operational detail that explains that measure’s status. The combination of Actuate’s Performance Management applications and its RIA-ready information platform provides capabilities for distributing accountability throughout the enterprise. Our customers are now able to quickly build and deploy rich, intuitive and easy to use Performance Management applications. These applications offer managers at all levels the ability to drill-through from executive level information to real-time operational details, resulting in heightened management effectiveness and breakthrough corporate performance throughout the enterprise. Actuate BIRT and e.Spreadsheet: Actuate BIRT is based on the Eclipse Open Source Business Intelligence Reporting and Tools (“BIRT”) project. It provides indemnification, supports the Actuate 9 Collaborative Reporting Architecture and can leverage all the Actuate deployment options—embedded in applications or deployed in workgroups or enterprise-wide. Actuate e.Spreadsheet products are Excel-based and deliver Excel-like reporting, formatting and calculation functionality within Java applications. Actuate e.Spreadsheet products can also leverage all the Actuate deployment options—embedded in applications or deployed in workgroups or enterprise-wise. Strategy Our goal is to be the leader in delivering Rich Internet Applications Without Limits™ by increasing the richness, interactivity and effectiveness of enterprise information, for everyone, everywhere. Actuate delivers the next generation RIA-ready information platform for both customer and employee-facing applications. The Actuate platform boasts unmatched scalability, high-performance, reliability and security. Its proven RIA capabilities and highly collaborative development architecture are backed by the world’s largest open source business application developer community, grounded in BIRT, the Eclipse Foundation’s only top level Business Intelligence and reporting project. Key elements of our strategy include: Expand Market Leadership Position through Strategic Relationships. We believe that we have established a leading position in the market for RIA that deliver rich interactive content. To accelerate the adoption of the Actuate portfolio of products, we have established strategic relationships with leading software application vendors, systems integrators, consulting firms, specialized Performance Management consultants and development partners. We intend to further develop our existing strategic relationships and enter into new partnerships to expand our market presence and leadership. Extend Technology Leadership. Since inception, we have focused our research and development efforts on developing core technologies that address the requirements of developing and deploying RIA that deliver rich interactive content in the areas Business Intelligence and Performance Management. Our products integrate a number of advanced technologies, including a patented method of providing page level security in a report, LDAP integration, advanced viewing technology incorporating Java, PDF, DHTML, Unicode, XML, AJAX, Flash and Web services, a patented method of storing report objects, a multi-tier architecture, Web access and delivery technology, EII data access technology, patent-pending spreadsheet technology and intuitive Performance Management interfaces such as Briefing Books. In addition, we have in the past rapidly incorporated new technology into our product offerings. We believe that we provide a leading RIA-ready information platform technology and we intend to extend this leadership position by continuing to devote significant resources to research and development efforts, and by acquiring and integrating complementary technologies when and if appropriate. Broaden Distribution Channels. To date, our products have been sold worldwide by our direct sales force and through our software application vendors, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), resellers, and systems integrators. We intend to continue expanding our direct sales force and telesales capability. In addition, we intend to continue to leverage and grow our existing network of OEMs, systems integrators, and resellers and expand our indirect distribution channel worldwide. 3 Table of Contents Focus on Key Application Areas. Our technology is uniquely suited to meet customer requirements for RIA that deliver rich interactive content for specific business functions such as financial management, customer self-service, sales management, account management, workforce management and operational Performance Management. We intend to continue to focus on these areas within our sales and marketing functions as well as provide more complete customer solutions through targeted partnering and technology development. Leverage Professional Services Capabilities. We have established successful relationships with our customers by serving as an advisor in developing and deploying RIA. We are extending our direct Professional Services capabilities to provide an expanded set of services to address areas such as application development strategy, project management, security integration and application design. In addition, we offer similar high-quality Professional Services capabilities through third-party alliances and are currently focused on the development of relationships with global and national systems integrators. By offering our clients a full range of Professional Services on a global basis, we believe that we can broaden market awareness about the advantages of our platform and create opportunities to sell new or additional products to clients. International Presence. Outside North America, we have established subsidiaries in a number of countries and have reseller relationships throughout Europe, Middle East and Asia/Pacific region. We have localized versions of our products in French, German, Spanish, and Japanese and we also support Chinese, Korean, and right-to-left reporting. We intend to grow our international operations by increasing our international sales force, expanding our indirect distribution channels worldwide and by continuing the localization of our products in selected markets. For 2008, the Company has plans to increase its resources for direct sales in certain geographies while opportunistically transitioning from direct to indirect sales by resellers and distributors in other geographies. International sales accounted for 27%, 25%, and 24% of our total revenues in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Leverage Open Source. We plan to build a community of developers adopting the open source Eclipse BIRT project. We offer a number of complementary commercial products that build on the open source BIRT project offering and we intend to offer additional complementary commercial products in the future. Products and Technology Actuate 9 is a unified software platform for developing and deploying RIA that deliver rich interactive content. These applications can provide decision-making information with the simplicity, consistency, and relevance necessary for adoption by 100% of users, both inside and outside the firewall. The Actuate Performancesoft Suite is a set of RIA that helps high-performing organizations drive strategy at all levels, improve decision making, and ensure better operational performance and execution. The Actuate product line assures that 100% of users, customers, partners and employees can get the information they need to drive prompt, effective action. Whether our customers wish to make better decisions, implement stronger customer relationships or manage to performance goals, Actuate provides a variety of intuitive, personalized and easy-to-use formats that present data integrated from all relevant sources. Our flexible deployment options and world class scalability support various types of projects, no matter how small or large. Actuate 9 added four new products based on our Collaborative Reporting Architecture. Actuate BIRT, as an option to Actuate iServer, offers the ability to deliver interactive web reports based on the open source BIRT technology. Actuate BusinessReports is an ad-hoc web report development product. Interactive Viewing is a report viewing capability that allows end users to personalize, save and share their own perspectives of reports delivered from both Actuate BIRT and BusinessReports. Finally, iPortal is a standards-based portal environment for accessing report content, launching BusinessReports and viewing Actuate BIRT reports. For an end user using iPortal, viewing BIRT reports in the Interactive Viewer deployment or assembling BusinessReports requires no training. For IT departments, these new products in Actuate 9 offer new deployment 4 Table of Contents flexibility and take advantage of popular skills and technologies already in place, specifically Java and Eclipse-based products. With Actuate 9, IT departments can leverage a common technology to embed reporting in Java applications or to deploy reporting applications for workgroups or across the extended enterprise. In the case of direct sales to end user customers, our products have been typically priced on a per CPU basis, a per named user basis or a mix of CPU and named user based pricing. Our development products are typically priced on a per named user basis. Indirect sales are usually either fixed price, unlimited usage arrangements, or arrangements where royalties are paid based on sell through to end-users. Actuate Products Product Description Actuate iServer Scalable information server for generating, managing, and securely delivering reporting and analytic content that is adopted by 100% of an organization’s users. Actuate iPortal Standards-based portal environment for hosting and accessing report content from Actuate BIRT, Actuate BusinessReports and Actuate e.Spreadsheet products. iPortal can be deployed alone on a single server for small workgroups or in conjunction with the Actuate iServer when enterprise caliber capabilities are required. JSR-168 portlets are also available to deploy content in standards-based portal environments. Actuate BIRT Report Option Enables professional application developers and report developers to build dynamic, interactive enterprise reports ready for deployment to end users and create composite report design templates for Actuate BusinessReports. Actuate BIRT Report Interactive Viewer Option AJAX-powered interactivity that enables every type of user to think beyond the current structure of the report and personalize it into his or her own perspective. Users have the flexibility to modify report views, reducing the number of reports that need to be created. Actuate BusinessReport Option Enables business analysts and power users to craft ad-hoc web reports by using re-useable BIRT-based foundation reports including data from Information Objects. The iterative design and development approach empowers close collaboration between developers and end users, who can quickly create and rapidly evolve reports to meet the changing needs of information consumers. Actuate Query Option Web-based query tool for end-users of all levels of computing sophistication. Actuate Analytics Option Server option that provides Web-based Online Analytical Processing (OLAP) capabilities to power users, business analysts, and management. Actuate Data Integration Option Server option licenses Information Objects deployed on the server to combine data from two or more disparate data sources. Actuate e.Report Option Server option for generating enterprise reports for employees, customers, and business partners in browser-based Web formats. Actuate e.Spreadsheet Option Server option for generating, managing, and distributing critical business information over the Internet in easy-to-use and intuitive desktop spreadsheets. Actuate SmartSheet Security Option SmartSheets cache both data and design in the iServer. When requested, SmartSheets constructs a personalized workbook for each user by dynamically assembling the workbook as requested, which allows smartsheets to combine both cached and real-time data, at that moment. 5 Table of Contents Actuate Products Product Description Actuate e.Analysis Option Server option that delivers to users browser-based, interactive analysis of report data without requiring any configuration or warehousing of application data. Actuate Page Level Security Option This server option allows users to view reports using page-level security. Actuate Analytics Cube Designer Enables IT to control access to the data and define the structure of each cube delivered by the Actuate iServer. Additionally, enables IT to blend Analytics seamlessly into existing Enterprise Reporting applications and provide a branded, personalized end-user experience that requires almost no training. Actuate e.Report Designer Professional Provides a comprehensive, object-oriented environment for professional developers to create tightly integrated, highly flexible enterprise reports for any Web-enabled application. Actuate e.Report Designer Wizard-driven development tool that enables Web developers to rapidly publish database information to the Web in the form of embedded, actionable reports. Actuate e.Spreadsheet Designer Development environment for creating flexible and customizable Excel-based spreadsheet reports. Actuate Information Object Designer Development environment that enables professional developers to create controlled views of enterprise data for end-user querying. Additionally, enables the creation of Information Objects that pull and integrate real-time data from any number of heterogeneous data sources. Actuate BIRT Report Designer A plug-in for the Open Source Eclipse IDE that offers an HTML page-oriented design metaphor (similar HTML editors) to build reports that are intuitive to create and integrate easily into web applications. Actuate BIRT Report Designer Professional A Rich Client Platform (RCP) version of Actuate BIRT Report Designer that offers a simplified interface without a need for the additional perspectives available in the standard Eclipse platform. Actuate BusinessReport Studio A web-based ad-hoc report authoring tool for workgroup deployments. BusinessReport Studio is ideal for mid-sized Business Intelligence projects who seek the benefits of collaborative reporting in a single server environment. Actuate BusinessReport Studio Professional An enterprise ad-hoc web reporting environment. BusinessReport Studio Professional harnesses the power of the Actuate iServer for access to Information Object metadata, report storage and scheduling, and scalability. BusinessReport Studio Professional is an integral member of the collaborative reporting architecture, allowing power users to participate in report definition and evolution alongside IT, using the Actuate BIRT Designers, and end-users with Interactive Viewing. Actuate e.Spreadsheet Engine Provides an API-driven component that Java developers use to embed Excel reporting functionality into projects deployed from J2EE application and Web servers. Actuate BIRT Report Engine 100% pure Java tool for extracting, formatting, and delivering data from a variety of data sources including Java objects inside applications, databases, Enterprise JavaBeans, and text files. Formula One Active X component Provides an API-driven, Excel-compatible spreadsheet component for building Windows applications in visual development environments such as Visual Basic and Visual C++. 6 Table of Contents The Actuate Performancesoft Suite helps high-performing organizations drive strategy at all levels, improve decision making, and ensure better operational performance and execution. In 2007, we introduced Actuate Performancesoft BI bringing enterprise-class business intelligence and reporting by integrating BIRT and e.Spreadsheet technology with Actuate Performancesoft Views and Track. The following table sets forth the products that comprise the Actuate Performancesoft Suite. Actuate Products Product Description Actuate Performancesoft Views A Performance Management application made up of three modules: Briefing Books, Performance Views and Performance Strategy Maps. Actuate Performancesoft Track A Performance Management application that provides executive level insight into the activities that drive organizational performance. Actuate Performancesoft BI Gives Actuate Performancesoft users the ability to drill directly from any measure in their Views scorecard to the operational detail that explains that measure’s status. Eclipse Business Intelligence and Reporting Tools Project In August 2004, Actuate joined the Eclipse Foundation, a community committed to the implementation of a universal platform for tools integration, as strategic developer and board member. Actuate proposed a BIRT project to the Eclipse open-source community for review at the same time. The Eclipse Foundation approved the project in September 2004. Actuate is stewarding development of BIRT, which culminated in the industry’s first open Business Intelligence and Reporting platform in June 2005. The second version of BIRT was released in June 2006 followed by the third version in June 2007. We hope Eclipse will release the fourth version of the BIRT in the second quarter of 2008. Customers Our customers operate in a wide variety of industries, including financial services, government, health care, manufacturing, pharmaceuticals, telecommunications, high technology, utilities, automotive, education, entertainment, travel, retail and others. For additional financial information regarding our business segments see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto that are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Sales We sell our software and services worldwide through two primary channels: (i) directly to corporate and government customers through our direct sales force and (ii) through indirect channel partners such as Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”), systems integrators, and resellers. Direct Sales Organization. Our direct sales force focuses most of its sales efforts on Global 9000 companies and public sector organizations. The direct sales process involves the generation of sales leads through Web-based marketing, direct mail, seminars and telemarketing. As part of the direct sales effort, our field sales force typically conducts demonstrations and presentations of our products to developers and managers at customer sites. Our telesales force conducts demonstrations via the Web and sells our products to new and existing customers over the phone. We maintain sales offices in a number of locations throughout North America, Europe and Asia/Pacific. OEM Sales Organization. A separate sales force addresses the OEM market. Our OEMs integrate our products for distribution with their applications either directly or in hosted environments. The OEM’s end-user customer is licensed to use our products solely in conjunction with the OEM’s application. 7 Table of Contents Systems Integrators. We have a business development group that focuses on establishing and maintaining relationships with systems integrators. Systems integrators typically re-market our products to their customer base as part of a software application being built for a customer. Systems integrators are offered discounts on our products and sell a full use license of the product. Our systems integrators do not provide post-sales support. Resellers. Resellers are typically given the non-exclusive right to market our software in a specific territory and are offered discounts on our products. Resellers typically provide customers with some post-sales support and services. Marketing Our marketing organization is focused on generating leads, building market awareness and promoting acceptance of our Company and our products, as well as on developing strategic marketing, technology and other relationships. We have a comprehensive marketing strategy with several key components: image, awareness and credibility building, direct marketing to both prospective and existing customers, a strong Web presence, comprehensive sales support materials as well as broad-scale marketing programs in conjunction with key partners. Our corporate marketing strategy includes online advertising, search engine optimization, public relations activities, trade shows and user group meetings. We also engage in programs to work closely with industry analysts and other influential third parties. Our direct marketing activities include extensive Web-based marketing campaigns, participation in selected trade shows and conferences and targeted ongoing direct mail and email efforts to existing and prospective customers. We also offer seminars, both in-person and over the Web, to educate prospective customers about our RIA built with our industry leading RIA-ready information platform. Finally, we have invested in building a partner and channel marketing function to conduct cooperative marketing programs with our partners. Professional Services Our Professional Services organization provides high value consulting services to customers developing and deploying RIA with our products. These services include application development strategy, project management, security integration and application design. We also actively recruit and train third party consulting firms to provide consulting services for our products. Due to the critical nature of RIA built with our industry leading RIA-ready information platform, we believe that our Professional Services group and relationships with our consulting partners play a key role in facilitating initial license sales and enabling customers to successfully develop and deploy Actuate-based applications. In addition, we offer, directly and through our network of certified training partners, classes and training programs for our products. Customer Service We believe that providing superior customer service is critical to successfully selling and marketing our products. Our maintenance and support contracts are typically for 12 months, and may be renewed annually. Maintenance fees are typically set at either a percentage of the total license fees paid by a customer or a percentage of the list price of the underlying products. Maintenance and support contracts entitle the customer to receive software patches, updates and enhancements, when and if available. Customers purchasing maintenance are able to access Actuate’s local support centers located in the United States, Canada, Singapore, Switzerland and the United Kingdom via email and telephone during normal business hours. We supplement our telephone support with Web-based support services, including access to cases, resolutions, online Web forums and a software patch download area. We also offer an extended maintenance plan that gives our customers access to 24x7 support and additional support services. To improve access to our explanatory materials, we provide online documentation with all of our products. 8 Table of Contents Research and Development Our research and development organization is divided into groups, typically consisting of product managers, development engineers, quality assurance engineers, technical writers and developer communications personnel. Our development process begins with requirement specification, followed by functional and technical design, and concludes with implementation. Requirements are based on the needs of customers and prospects, as well as competitive, technological and industry factors. Our development group uses detailed processes and frequent milestones during the functional and technical design phases. During implementation, the product is built and tested daily and our quality assurance group verifies that functionality, quality and performance criteria are met. We have development centers located in San Mateo, California, Overland Park, Kansas, Shanghai, China and Toronto, Canada. Research and development expenses were $21.8 million, $21.1 million, and $16.5 million in fiscal years 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. We intend to continue to make investments in research and development and related activities to maintain and enhance our product lines. We believe that our future success will depend on our ability to create products that directly address our customers’ needs, are of high quality, and leverage the latest technological innovations. These products must also support current and future releases of popular operating systems platforms, development languages, databases, Internet standards, and enterprise software applications. We intend to maintain and improve our current product line and to timely develop or acquire new products. Our ability to achieve future revenue growth will depend in large part on the market acceptance of our current and future products. Competition Our market is intensely competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving standards and new product releases by our competitors that are marketed to compete directly with our products. Our competition comes in four principal forms: • Competition from current or future Business Intelligence software vendors such as Business Objects (acquired by SAP), Cognos (acquired by IBM), Information Builders and MicroStrategy, which offer Business Intelligence, Reporting and Performance Management products; • Competition from other large software vendors such as Microsoft, Oracle and SAP, to the extent that these vendors now or in the future, include reporting functionality with their applications or databases; • Competition from other software vendors and software development tool vendors; and • Competition from the IT departments of current or potential customers that may develop RIA internally, which may be cheaper and more customized than our products. Most of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of their products than we may. Also, most current and potential competitors have greater name recognition and the ability to leverage a significant installed customer base. These companies have released and can continue to release competing RIA or significantly increase the functionality of their existing reporting software products. We expect additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter the RIA market and new products and technologies are introduced. Intellectual Property Rights We rely primarily on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology. For example, we license our software pursuant to shrink/click-wrap or signed license agreements that impose certain restrictions on licensees’ 9 Table of Contents ability to utilize the software. In addition, we take precautions to avoid disclosure of our intellectual property. These precautions include requiring those persons with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements with us and by restricting access to our source code. We seek to protect our software, documentation, and other written materials under trade secret patent, copyright and trademark laws, which afford only limited protection. We also have a small number of issued and pending U.S. patents expiring at varying times ranging from 2015 to 2020. The expiration of any such patents would not have a material effect on our business. Employees As of December 31, 2007, we had 581 full-time employees, including 197 in sales and marketing, 159 in research and development, 123 in services and support, and 102 in general and administrative functions. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, nor have we experienced a work stoppage. We believe our employee relations are good. We also believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our continuing ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, sales, marketing, customer support and research and development personnel and, in particular, executive officers. Actuate Executive Officers Actuate’s executive officers as of February 10, 2008 are as follows: Name Offices Nicolas C. Nierenberg Chairman of the Board and Chief Architect Peter I. Cittadini Director, President and Chief Executive Officer Daniel A. Gaudreau Senior Vice President, Operations and ChiefFinancial Officer Mark A. Coggins Senior Vice President, Engineering Ilene M. Vogt Senior Vice President and General Manager,Enterprise Group N. Nobby Akiha Senior Vice President, Marketing Stephen R. Fluin Senior Vice President and General Manager,Performance Management Group Thomas E. McKeever General Counsel and Vice President, CorporateDevelopment Nicolas C. Nierenberg, 51, has been Chairman of the Board of Directors since he co-founded Actuate in November 1993 and became our Chief Architect in August 2000. Mr. Nierenberg was Chief Executive Officer of Actuate from November 1993 until August 2000 and President from November 1993 until October 1998. Prior to founding Actuate, from April 1993 to November 1993, Mr. Nierenberg worked as a consultant for Accel Partners, a venture capital firm, evaluating investment opportunities in the enterprise software market. Mr. Nierenberg co-founded Unify Corporation, which develops and markets relational database development tools. Mr. Nierenberg held a number of positions at Unify including, Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer, President, Vice President, Engineering and Chief Technical Officer. Mr. Nierenberg is currently a director for privately held companies AwarePoint, Inc., and Photoleap, Inc. and is a member of the board of trustees for The Burnham Institute, a non-profit organization. Peter I. Cittadini, 52, has been Chief Executive Officer of Actuate since August 2000 and has been the President of Actuate since October 1998. Mr. Cittadini was also Actuate’s Chief Operating Officer from October 1998 until August 2000 and served as Actuate’s Executive Vice President from January 1995 to October 1998. From 1992 to 1995, Mr. Cittadini held a number of positions at Interleaf, Inc., an enterprise software publishing company, including Senior Vice President of Worldwide Operations responsible for worldwide sales, marketing, customer support and services. From 1985 to 1991, Mr. Cittadini held a number of positions at Oracle Corporation, including Vice President, Northeast Division. 10 Table of Contents Daniel A. Gaudreau, 60, has been Senior Vice President, Operations and Chief Financial Officer since January 1999 and served as Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer from February 1997 to January 1999. From January 1994 to February 1997, Mr. Gaudreau served as Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Plantronics, Inc., a publicly traded telephone headset manufacturing company, where he was responsible for all financial and administrative operations. From January 1990 to January 1994, Mr. Gaudreau was Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer at Ready Systems, an operating systems software company. Prior to that, Mr. Gaudreau spent two years at Apple Computer as the Controller of Fremont Manufacturing Operations, prior to which he spent 18 years at General Electric where he held various financial management positions. Mark A. Coggins, 50, has been Senior Vice President, Engineering since October 2003. From May 2001 to April 2003, Mr. Coggins was Vice President, Engineering at Verisign, a publicly traded security software company. From January 1999 to April 2001, Mr. Coggins was Vice President, Products at ShortCycles, a CRM software company. Prior to that, Mr. Coggins held positions in engineering and marketing management at Netscape Communications, Interactive Development Environments and Hewlett Packard. Ilene M. Vogt, 49, has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, Enterprise Group since January 2008 and served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations, Senior Vice President and Vice President, North American Operations and Director, Western Region Sales. From July 1991 to February 1995, Ms. Vogt was a Sales Manager for Interleaf, Inc. N. Nobby Akiha, 50, has been Senior Vice President, Marketing since June 2006 and served as Vice President of Marketing from August 2000. From August 1994 to July 2000, Mr. Akiha was Vice President, Marketing and Business Development at Inference Corporation. From October 1993 to July 1994, Mr. Akiha was a Senior Consultant at Regis McKenna, Inc. Prior to that, Mr. Akiha was Director of Marketing Communications at Interactive Development Environments and a Group Product Manager at Oracle Corporation. Stephen R. Fluin, 53, has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, Performance Management Group since January 2008 and served as Vice President, Worldwide Operations, Performance Management from January 2007. Mr. Fluin has held a number of senior positions in the software industry over the past 20 years. Since 2002, Mr. Fluin has led the international division of Performancesoft, Inc. Thomas E. McKeever, 40, has been General Counsel and Vice President, Corporate Development since May 2006. Mr. McKeever was formerly Senior Counsel at Sun Microsystems, Inc. and an associate in the law firms Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, Heller Ehrman White & McAuliffe, Bay Venture Counsel and Sedgwick Detert Moran & Arnold. Mr. McKeever also served as a law clerk to the Honorable Lawrence T. Lydick of the United States District Court for the Central District of California (Orange County). Website Access to Actuate’s Reports Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge through our Website at www.actuate.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS Investors should carefully consider the following risk factors and warnings before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones facing Actuate. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially harmed. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Investors should also refer to the other information set forth in this Report on Form 10-K, including the financial statements and the notes thereto. THE COMPANY’S OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE VOLATILE AND DIFFICULT TO PREDICT. IF IT FAILS TO MEET ITS ESTIMATES OF FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS OR IT FAILS TO MEET THE EXPECTATIONS OF PUBLIC MARKET ANALYSTS AND INVESTORS, THE MARKET PRICE OF ITS STOCK MAY DECREASE SIGNIFICANTLY. The susceptibility of the Company’s operating results to significant fluctuations makes any prediction, including the Company’s estimates of future operating results, difficult. In addition, the Company believes that period-to-period comparisons of its operating results are not necessarily meaningful and investors should not rely on them as indications of the Company’s future performance. The Company’s operating results have in the past varied, and may in the future vary significantly due to factors such as the following: • Demand for its products; • The size and timing of significant orders for its products; • A slowdown or a decrease in spending on information technology by its current and/or prospective customers; • Competition from products that are directly competitive with its products; • Lost revenue from introduction or market acceptance of open source products that are directly competitive with its products; • The management, performance and expansion of its international operations; • Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • Customers’ desire to consolidate their purchases of RIA, Performance Management and Business Intelligence software to one or a very small number of vendors from which a customer has already purchased software; • General domestic and international economic and political conditions, including war, terrorism, and the threat of war or terrorism; • Sales cycles and sales performance of its indirect channel partners; • Changes in the way it and its competitors price their respective products and services, including maintenance and transfer fees; • Continued successful relationships and the establishment of new relationships with OEMs; • Changes in its level of operating expenses and its ability to control costs; • The outcome or publicity surrounding any pending or threatened lawsuits; • Ability to make new products and product enhancements commercially available in a timely manner; • Ability to effectively launch new or enhanced products, including the timely education of the Company’s sales, marketing and consulting personnel with respect to such new or enhanced products.; • Customers delaying purchasing decisions in anticipation of new products or product enhancements; 12 Table of Contents • Budgeting cycles of its customers; • Failure to successfully manage its acquisitions; • Defects in its products and other product quality problems; • Failure to successfully meet hiring needs including for qualified professional services employees and unexpected personnel changes; • Changes in the market segments and types of customers at which it focuses its sales and marketing efforts; • Changes in perpetual licensing models to term- or subscription-based models with respect to which license revenue is not fully recognizable at the time of initial sale; and • Changes in service models with respect to which consulting services are performed on a fixed-fee, rather than variable fee, basis; • Potential impairment and liquidity of auction rate securities. Because the Company’s software products are typically shipped shortly after orders are received, total revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked and shipped throughout that quarter. Furthermore, several factors may require the Company, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, to defer recognition of license fee revenue for a significant period of time after entering into a license agreement, including: • Whether the license agreement includes both software products that are then currently available and software products or other enhancements that are still under development; • Whether the license agreement relates entirely or partly to software products that are currently not available; • Whether the license agreement requires the performance of services that may preclude revenue recognition until successful completion of such services; • Whether the license agreement includes acceptance criteria that may preclude revenue recognition prior to customer acceptance; • Whether the license agreement includes undelivered elements (including limited terms or durations) that may preclude revenue recognition prior to customer acceptance; and • Whether the license agreement includes extended payment terms that may delay revenue recognition until the payment becomes due. In addition, the Company may in the future experience fluctuations in its gross and operating margins due to changes in the mix of its domestic and international revenues, changes in the mix of its direct sales and indirect sales and changes in the mix of license revenues and service revenues, as well as changes in the mix among the indirect channels through which its products are offered. A significant portion of the Company’s total revenues in any given quarter is derived from existing customers. The Company’s ability to achieve future revenue growth, if any, will be substantially dependent upon its ability to increase revenues from license fees and services from existing customers, to expand its customer base and to increase the average size of its orders. To the extent that such increases do not occur in a timely manner, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. The Company’s expense levels and any plans for expansion are based in significant part on its expectations of future revenues and are relatively fixed in the short-term. If revenues fall below its expectations and it is unable to reduce its spending in response quickly, the Company’s business, operating results, and financial condition could be harmed. 13 Table of Contents The Company often implements changes to its license pricing structure for all of its products including increased prices and modified licensing parameters. If these changes are not accepted by the Company’s current customers or future customers, its business, operating results, and financial condition could be harmed. Based upon all of the factors described above, the Company has a limited ability to forecast the amount and mix of future revenues and expenses and it is likely that at some time, the Company’s operating results will be below its estimates or the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In the event that operating results are below its estimates or other expectations, the price of the Company’s common stock is likely to decline. THE COMPANY HAS MADE, AND MAY IN THE FUTURE MAKE, ACQUISITIONS, WHICH INVOLVE NUMEROUS RISKS. The Company’s business is highly competitive, and as such, its growth is dependent upon market growth and its ability to enhance its existing products, introduce new products on a timely basis and expand its distribution channels and professional services organization. One of the ways the Company has addressed and will continue to address these issues is through acquisitions of other companies. On January 5, 2006, the Company purchased all of the outstanding capital stock of performancesoft. Generally, acquisitions (including that of performancesoft) involve numerous risks, including the following: • The benefits of the acquisition not materializing as planned or not materializing within the time periods or to the extent anticipated; • The Company’s ability to manage acquired entities’ people and processes that are headquartered in separate geographical locations from the Company’s headquarters; • The possibility that the Company will pay more than the value it derives from the acquisition; • Difficulties in integration of the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies; • The assumption of certain known and unknown liabilities of the acquired companies; • Difficulties in retaining key relationships with customers, partners and suppliers of the acquired company; • The risk of diverting management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • The Company’s ability to issue new releases of the acquired company’s products on existing or other platforms; • Negative impact to the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and the potential write down of impaired goodwill and intangible assets resulting from combining the acquired company’s financial condition and results of operations with its financial statements; • Risks of entering markets in which the Company has no or limited direct prior experience; and • The potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, and the Company cannot be certain that any acquisition will be successful and will not materially harm the Company’s business, operating results or financial condition. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY CLAIMS AGAINST THE COMPANY CAN BE COSTLY AND COULD RESULT IN THE LOSS OF SIGNIFICANT RIGHTS. Third parties may claim that the Company’s current or future products infringe their intellectual property rights. The Company has been subject to infringement claims in the past and it expects that companies in the Business Intelligence, RIA or Performance Management software market will increasingly be subject to 14 Table of Contents infringement claims as the number of products and/or competitors in its industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in costly litigation and expenses, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product shipment delays or require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company or at all. A successful claim of product infringement against the Company and its failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could materially harm the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. IF THE COMPANY FAILS TO GROW REVENUE FROM INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS AND EXPAND ITS INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS ITS BUSINESS WOULD BE SERIOUSLY HARMED. The Company’s total revenues derived from sales outside North America were 27%, 25% and 24% for the fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Its ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend in large part on its success in increasing revenues from international sales. The Company intends to continue to invest significant resources to expand its sales and support operations outside North America and to potentially enter additional international markets. In order to expand international sales, the Company must establish additional foreign operations, expand its international channel management and support organizations, hire additional personnel, recruit additional international resellers and increase the productivity of existing international resellers. The Company intends to continue to move from a focus on direct sales to a focus on indirect sales in certain of its international markets in 2008. If it is not successful in expanding international operations in a timely and cost-effective manner, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed. IF THE COMPANY DOES NOT SUCCESSFULLY EXPAND ITS DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS AND DEVELOP AND MAINTAIN RELATIONSHIPS WITH OEMs, ITS BUSINESS WOULD BE SERIOUSLY HARMED. To date, the Company has sold its products principally through its direct sales force, as well as through indirect sales channels, such as its OEMs, resellers and systems integrators. The Company’s revenues from license fees resulting from sales through indirect channel partners were approximately 28%, 37%, and 37% of total revenues from license fees for the fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company’s ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future will depend in large part on the success of its sales force in further establishing and maintaining relationships with indirect channel partners. In particular, a significant element of the Company’s strategy is to embed its technology in products offered by OEMs for resale or as a hosted application to such OEMs’ customers and end-users. The Company also intends to establish and expand its relationships with resellers and systems integrators so that such resellers and systems integrators will increasingly recommend its products to their clients. The Company’s future success will depend on the ability of its indirect channel partners to sell and support its products. If the sales and implementation cycles of its indirect channel partners are lengthy or variable or its OEMs experience difficulties embedding its technology into their products or it fails to train the sales and customer support personnel of such indirect channel partners in a timely or effective fashion, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition would be materially harmed. Although the Company is currently investing, and plans to continue to invest, significant resources to expand and develop relationships with OEMs, it has at times experienced and continues to experience difficulty in establishing and maintaining these relationships. If the Company is unable to successfully expand this distribution channel and secure license agreements with additional OEMs on commercially reasonable terms, including significant up-front payments of minimum license fees, and extend existing license agreements with existing OEMs on commercially reasonable terms, the Company’s operating results would be adversely affected. Any inability by the Company to maintain existing or establish new relationships with indirect channel partners, including systems integrators and resellers, or, if such efforts are successful, a failure of the Company’s revenues 15 Table of Contents to increase correspondingly with expenses incurred in pursuing such relationships, would materially harm the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. THE COMPANY MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY AGAINST ITS CURRENT AND FUTURE COMPETITORS. The Company’s market is intensely competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving standards and product releases by the Company’s competitors that are marketed to compete directly with the Company’s products. The Company’s competition comes in four principal forms: • Competition from current or future Business Intelligence software vendors such as Information Builders and MicroStrategy, each of which offers reporting products. • Competition from other large software vendors such as IBM, Microsoft, Oracle and SAP, to the extent they sell as separate products or include RIA and Performance Management functionality with their applications or databases; • Competition from other software vendors and software development tool vendors including providers of open-source software products; and • Competition from the IT departments of current or potential customers that may develop scalable Business Intelligence, Performance Management and RIA products internally, which may be cheaper and more customized than the Company’s products. • Competition from BIRT. The Company expects that BIRT, which is free, may in the short term cannibalize some smaller sales of its RIA products. Most of the Company’s current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than it does. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of their products than the Company. Also, most current and potential competitors have greater name recognition and the ability to leverage a significant installed customer base. These companies have released and can continue to release competing Business Intelligence, Performance Management and RIA software products or significantly increase the functionality of their existing software products, either of which could result in a loss of market share for the Company. The Company expects additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter the Business Intelligence, Performance Management and Rich Internet Application software market and new products and technologies are introduced. Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins, longer sales cycles and loss of market share, any of which would harm the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, thereby increasing their ability to address the needs of the Company’s prospective customers. Also, the Company’s current or future channel partners may have established in the past, or may in the future, establish cooperative relationships with the Company’s current or potential competitors, thereby limiting the Company’s ability to sell its products through particular distribution channels. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among current and new competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. Such competition could reduce the Company’s revenues from license fees and services from new or existing customers on terms favorable to us. If the Company is unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition would be materially harmed. IF THE MARKET FOR RIA AND PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE DOES NOT GROW AS THE COMPANY EXPECTS, ITS BUSINESS WOULD BE SERIOUSLY HARMED. The market for RIA and Performance Management software products is still emerging and the Company cannot be certain that such market will continue to grow or that, even if the market does grow, businesses will purchase the Company’s products. If the market for RIA and Performance Management software products fails 16 Table of Contents to grow or grows more slowly than the Company expects, its business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. To date, all of the Company’s revenues have been derived from licenses for its RIA and software and Performance Management related products and services, and it expects this to continue for the foreseeable future. The Company has spent, and intends to continue to spend, considerable resources educating potential customers and indirect channel partners about RIA and Performance Management software and its products. However, if such expenditures do not enable its products to achieve any significant degree of market acceptance, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition would be materially harmed. BECAUSE THE SALES CYCLES OF THE COMPANY’S PRODUCTS ARE LENGTHY AND VARIABLE, ITS QUARTERLY RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE. The purchase of the Company’s products by its end-user customers for deployment within the customer’s organization typically involves a significant commitment of capital and other resources, and is therefore subject to delays that are beyond the Company’s control. These delays can arise from a customer’s internal procedures to approve large capital expenditures, budgetary constraints, the testing and acceptance of new technologies that affect key operations and general economic and political events. The sales cycle for initial orders and larger follow-on orders for the Company’s products can be lengthy and variable. Additionally, sales cycles for sales of the Company’s products to OEMs tend to be longer, ranging from 6 to 24 months or more, and may involve convincing the OEMs’ entire organization that the Company’s products are the appropriate software for their applications. This time period does not include the sales and implementation cycles of such OEMs’ own products, which can be longer than the Company’s sales and implementation cycles. Certain of the Company’s customers have in the past, or may in the future, experience difficulty completing the initial implementation of Actuate’s products. Any difficulties or delays in the initial implementation by the Company’s end-user customers or indirect channel partners could cause such customers to reject the Company’s software or lead to the delay or non-receipt of future orders for the large-scale deployment of its products, in which case the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition would be materially harmed. ADVANCES IN HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY MAY CAUSE OUR SOFTWARE REVENUE TO DECLINE. In the past, the Company has licensed software for a certain number of “processors” or “CPUs” to many of its customers. Advances in hardware technology, including, but not limited to, greater CPU clock speeds, multiple-core processors and virtualization, have afforded software performance gains to some customers, causing them to defer additional software purchases from the Company. The occurrence of any of these events, and other future advances, could seriously harm the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Use of the Company’s software on more advanced hardware than the hardware on which the software was originally installed, without payment of a transfer fee is prohibited by the terms of applicable license agreements or Company policies. The Company intends to require compliance with such terms. As a result of its enforcement efforts, customers may defer or cease purchasing additional software or maintenance and support. The occurrence of any of these events could materially harm the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. IF THE COMPANY IS UNABLE TO FAVORABLY ASSESS THE EFFECTIVENESS OF ITS INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING, IN FUTURE PERIODS, OR IF THE COMPANY’S INDEPENDENT AUDITORS ARE UNABLE TO PROVIDE AN UNQUALIFIED ATTESTATION REPORT ON SUCH ASSESSMENT, THE COMPANY’S STOCK PRICE COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”), the Company’s management is required to report on, and its independent auditors are required to attest to, the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting on an ongoing basis. The Company’s assessment, testing and evaluation of the design and operating effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting are ongoing. Management 17 Table of Contents assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, and this assessment identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to our income tax provision. Specifically, we did not maintain effective controls over the review of the income tax provision calculation by someone other than the preparer. The Company plans to remediate the aforementioned material weakness by ensuring a detailed review of the supporting tax schedules by someone other than the preparer. This material weakness is disclosed in Item 9A of this report. The Company cannot predict the outcome of its testing in future periods. If in future periods the Company concludes that its internal control over financial reporting is not effective, it may be required to change its internal control over financial reporting to remediate deficiencies, and investors may lose confidence in the reliability of its financial statements, causing the Company’s stock price to decline significantly. SECTION 404 AND RECENTLY ENACTED REGULATORY CHANGES HAVE CAUSED THE COMPANY TO INCUR INCREASED COSTS AND OPERATING EXPENSES AND MAY MAKE IT MORE DIFFICULT FOR THE COMPANY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and recently enacted rules of the SEC and Nasdaq have caused the Company to incur significant increased costs. In particular, the rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess its internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 are complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. This ongoing process of reviewing, documenting and testing the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting has resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, a significant strain on the Company’s management, information systems and resources. Furthermore, achieving and maintaining compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley and other new rules and regulations has and will continue to require the Company to hire additional personnel and to use additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services. Any acquisitions made by the Company will also put a significant strain on its management, information systems and resources. In addition, any expansion of the Company’s international operations will lead to increased financial and administrative demands associated with managing its international operations and managing an increasing number of relationships with foreign partners and customers and expanded treasury functions to manage foreign currency risks, all of which will require implementation of any changes necessary to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting. Any failure to satisfy the new rules could make it more difficult for the Company to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and it may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. Alternatively, the Company may determine that it should reduce its director and officer liability insurance policy limits. The impact of any of these events could also make it more difficult for the Company to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on its Board of Directors, or as executive officers. IF THE COMPANY DOES NOT RESPOND TO RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES, ITS PRODUCTS COULD BECOME OBSOLETE. The market for the Company’s products is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, changing customer demands, and evolving industry standards. Any of these factors can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. The Company believes that its future success will depend in large part on its ability to support current and future releases of popular operating systems and computer programming languages, databases and software applications, to timely develop new products that achieve market acceptance and to meet an expanding range of customer requirements. If the announcement or introduction of new products by the Company or its competitors or any change in industry standards causes customers to defer or cancel purchases of existing products, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. 18 Table of Contents As a result of the complexities inherent in RIA and Performance Management software, major new products and product enhancements can require long development and testing periods. In addition, customers may delay their purchasing decisions in anticipation of the general availability of new or enhanced versions of the Company’s products. As a result, significant delays in the general availability of such new releases or significant problems in the installation or implementation of such new releases could harm the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. If the Company fails to successfully develop, on a timely and cost effective basis, product enhancements or new products that respond to technological change, evolving industry standards or customer requirements or such new products and product enhancements fail to achieve market acceptance, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. IF THE COMPANY DOES NOT RELEASE NEW PRODUCTS AND ENHANCEMENTS TO EXISTING PRODUCTS IN A TIMELY MANNER OR IF SUCH NEW PRODUCTS AND ENHANCEMENTS, INCLUDING THE COMPANY’S OPEN SOURCE PROJECT, FAIL TO ACHIEVE MARKET ACCEPTANCE, THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS COULD BE SERIOUSLY HARMED. The Company believes that its future success will depend in large part on the success of new products and enhancements to its products that it makes generally available. Prior to the release of any new products or enhancements, the products must undergo a long development and testing period. To date, the development and testing of new products and enhancements have taken longer than expected. In the event the development and testing of new products and enhancements continue to take longer than expected, the release of new products and enhancements will be delayed. If the Company fails to release new products and enhancements in a timely manner, its business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. In addition, if such new products and enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. The Company has developed a BIRT open source code project as part of the Eclipse open source code foundation. The Company hopes that BIRT and a commercialized version of BIRT will be widely adopted by Java developers and will result in such developers recommending to their companies that they license the Company’s commercially available products. If BIRT does not achieve market acceptance and result in promoting sales of commercially available products, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. THE SUCCESS OF THE COMPANY’S OPEN-SOURCE BIRT INITIATIVE IS DEPENDENT ON BUILDING A DEVELOPER COMMUNITY AROUND BIRT. The success of the Company’s BIRT initiative is dependent on the open source contributions of third-party programmers and corporations, and if they cease to make these contributions to the Eclipse open source project, the BIRT project, or the general open source movement, the Company’s BIRT product strategy could be adversely affected. If key members, or a significant percentage, of this group of developers or corporations decides to cease development of Eclipse, BIRT or other open source applications, the Company would have to either rely on another party (or parties) to develop these technologies, develop them itself or adapt its open source product strategy accordingly. This could increase the Company’s development expenses, delay its product releases and upgrades or adversely impact customer acceptance of open source offerings. 19 Table of Contents THE COMPANY’S INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT RISKS. A substantial portion of the Company’s revenues is derived from international sales. International operations are subject to a number of risks, any of which could harm the Company’s business, operating results and financial conditions. These risks include the following: • Economic and political instability, including war and terrorism or the threat of war and terrorism; • Difficulty of managing an organization spread across many countries; • Multiple and conflicting tax laws and regulations; • Costs of localizing products for foreign countries; • Difficulty in hiring employees and difficulties and high costs associated with terminating employees and restructuring operations in foreign countries; • Trade laws and business practices favoring local competition; • Dependence on local vendors; • Increasing dependence on resellers in certain geographies; • Compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing government laws and regulations; • Weaker intellectual property protection in foreign countries and potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy or misappropriation; • Longer sales cycles; • Import and export restrictions and tariffs; • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • The significant presence of some of our competitors in certain international markets; • Greater difficulty or delay in accounts receivable collection; and • Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The Company believes that, over time, an increasing portion of its revenues and costs will be denominated in foreign currencies. To the extent such denomination in foreign currencies does occur, gains and losses on the conversion to U.S. dollars of accounts receivable, accounts payable and other monetary assets and liabilities arising from international operations may contribute to fluctuations in the Company’s results of operations. Although the Company may in the future decide to undertake foreign exchange hedging transactions to cover a portion of its foreign currency transaction exposure, it currently does not attempt to cover any foreign currency exposure. If it is not effective in any future foreign exchange hedging transactions in which it engages, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed. THE COMPANY’S EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CERTAIN KEY PERSONNEL ARE CRITICAL TO ITS BUSINESS AND IT MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RECRUIT AND RETAIN THE PERSONNEL IT NEEDS. The Company’s future success depends upon the continued service of its executive officers and other key engineering, sales, marketing and customer support personnel. None of its officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. If the Company loses the service of one or more of its key employees, or if one or more of its executive officers or key employees decide to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with it, this could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s business. In addition, because experienced personnel in the Company’s industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, the Company has relied on its ability to grant stock options as one mechanism for 20 Table of Contents recruiting and retaining this highly skilled talent. Accounting regulations that have recently taken effect require the expensing of stock options, which will impair the Company’s future ability to provide these incentives without incurring significant compensation costs. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel in the future. CHANGES IN, OR INTERPRETATIONS OF, ACCOUNTING RULES AND REGULATIONS COULD RESULT IN UNFAVORABLE ACCOUNTING CHARGES. The Company prepares its consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies can have a significant effect on the Company’s reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. The Company’s accounting policies that recently have been or may be affected by changes in the accounting rules are as follows: • Software revenue recognition; • Accounting for income taxes; • Accounting for business combinations and related goodwill; and • Accounting for stock issued to employees. THE COMPANY MAY BE UNABLE TO SUSTAIN OR INCREASE ITS PROFITABILITY. While the Company was profitable in its last four fiscal years, it incurred net losses during fiscal year 2003 and 2002. Its ability to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis will be affected by changes in its business. It expects its operating expenses to increase as its business grows, and it anticipates that it will make investments in its business. Therefore, the Company’s results of operations will be harmed if its revenues do not increase at a rate equal to or greater than increases in its expenses or are insufficient for it to sustain profitability. IF THE COMPANY OVERESTIMATES REVENUES, IT MAY BE UNABLE TO REDUCE ITS EXPENSES TO AVOID OR MINIMIZE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON ITS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The Company’s revenues are difficult to forecast and are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. The Company bases its operating expense budgets on expected revenue trends. The Company’s estimates of sales trends may not correlate with actual revenues in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time. Variations in the rate and timing of conversion of the Company’s sales prospects into actual licensing revenues could cause it to plan or budget inaccurately and those variations could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. In particular, delays, reductions in amount or cancellation of customers’ purchases would adversely affect the overall level and timing of the Company’s revenues and its business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, many of its expenses, such as office and equipment leases and certain personnel costs, are relatively fixed. It may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any shortfall in revenue may cause a material variation in operating results in any period. IF THE COMPANY’S PRODUCTS CONTAIN MATERIAL DEFECTS, ITS REVENUES MAY DECLINE. Software products as complex as those offered by the Company often contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced, when new versions or enhancements are released and when configured to individual customer computing systems. The Company currently has known errors and defects in its products. Despite testing conducted by the Company, if additional defects and errors are found in current versions, new versions or 21 Table of Contents enhancements of its products after commencement of commercial shipment, this could result in the loss of revenues or a delay in market acceptance or an increase in the rate of return of the Company’s products. The occurrence of any of these events could materially harm the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. THE COMPANY MAY BE SUBJECT TO PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS. Although license agreements with its customers typically contain provisions designed to limit the Company’s exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that such limitation of liability provisions may not be effective as a result of existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions. The sale and support of the Company’s products may entail the risk of such claims, which are likely to be substantial in light of the use of its products in business-critical applications. A product liability claim brought against the Company could materially harm its business, operating results and financial condition. THE PROTECTION OF OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS MAY BE INADEQUATE. The Company has a small number of issued and pending U.S. patents expiring at varying times ranging from 2015 to 2020. The Company relies primarily on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect its proprietary technology. For example, the Company licenses its software pursuant to shrink- or click-wrap or signed license agreements that impose certain restrictions on licensees’ ability to utilize the software. In addition, the Company seeks to avoid disclosure of its intellectual property, including by requiring those persons with access to its proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements with the Company and by restricting access to its source code. The Company takes precautions to protect our software, certain documentation, and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection. Despite the Company’s efforts to protect its proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of its products or to obtain and use information that the Company regards as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of the Company’s products is difficult, and while it is unable to determine the extent to which piracy of its software products exists, software piracy can be expected to be a persistent problem. In addition, the laws of many countries do not protect the Company’s proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. If the Company’s means of protecting its proprietary rights is not adequate or its competitors independently develop similar technology, the Company’s business could be materially harmed. THE COMPANY’S COMMON STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE, WHICH COULD RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL LOSSES FOR STOCKHOLDERS. The market price of shares of the Company’s common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and may be significantly affected by factors such as the following: • Actual or anticipated fluctuations in its operating results; • Changes in the economic and political conditions in the United States and abroad; • Terrorist attacks, war or the threat of terrorist attacks and war; • The announcement of mergers or acquisitions by the Company or its competitors; • Developments in ongoing or threatened litigation; • Announcements of technological innovations; • Failure to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; • New products, including open source products, or new contracts announced by it or its competitors; 22 Table of Contents • Developments with respect to copyrights or proprietary rights; • Price and volume fluctuations in the stock market; • Changes in corporate purchasing of RIA and Performance Management software; • Adoption of new accounting standards affecting the software industry; and • Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts. In addition, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against such companies. If the Company is involved in such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources and could materially harm the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. CHANGES IN TAX RATES OR NEGATIVE TAX RULINGS COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT THE COMPANY’S FINANCIAL RESULTS. The Company is taxable principally in the United States and certain jurisdictions in Europe and Asia/Pacific. All of these jurisdictions have in the past and may in the future make changes to their corporate income tax rates and other income tax laws, which could increase the Company’s future income tax provision. While the Company believes that all material income tax liabilities are reflected properly in its balance sheet, it has no assurance that it will prevail in all cases in the event the taxing authorities disagree with its interpretations of the tax law. Future levels of research and development spending, and employment of a required minimum of employees in Switzerland, will impact the Company’s entitlement to related tax credits, which generally lower its effective income tax rate. Future effective income tax rates could be adversely affected if earnings are lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where the Company has statutory tax rates lower than in the United States. CERTAIN OF THE COMPANY’S CHARTER PROVISIONS AND DELAWARE LAW MAY PREVENT OR DETER A CHANGE IN CONTROL OF ACTUATE. The Company’s Certificate of Incorporation, as amended and restated (the “Certificate of Incorporation”), and Bylaws, as amended and restated (“Bylaws”), contain certain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a stockholder might consider favorable, including provisions authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock and eliminating the ability of stockholders to act by written consent. In addition, certain provisions of Delaware law and the Company’s stock option plans may also have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control or unsolicited acquisition proposals. The anti-takeover effect of these provisions may also have an adverse effect on the public trading price of the Company’s common stock. IF THE RECENT WORSENING OF CREDIT MARKET CONDITIONS CONTINUES OR INCREASES, IT COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO. Recent U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults have had a significant impact across various sectors of the financial markets, causing global credit and liquidity issues. The short-term funding markets experienced credit issues during the first quarter of fiscal 2008. This led to liquidity disruption in asset-backed commercial paper and failed auctions in the auction rate market. If the global credit market continues to deteriorate, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments are impaired. This could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our investment portfolio includes auction rate securities, which are investments with contractual maturities. They are usually found in the form of municipal bonds, a pool of student loans or collateralized debt obligations whose interest rates are subject to reset through an auction process. At the end of each reset period, investors can 23 Table of Contents sell or continue to hold the securities at par. The auction rate securities held by us are primarily backed by highly rated municipal issuers. As of December 31, 2007, we had $14.6 million invested in auction-rate securities. These auction rate securities were scheduled to reset subsequent to December 31, 2007. As of March 14, 2008, all of our auction rate securities have experienced failed auctions. These failures are not believed to be a credit issue, but rather caused by a lack of liquidity. Under the contractual terms, the issuer is often obligated to pay penalty rates should an auction fail. These funds are not expected to be accessible until one of the following occurs: a successful auction occurs, the issuer redeems the issue, a buyer is found outside of the auction process or the underlying securities have matured. As of March 14, 2008, we had $16.5 million invested in auction-rate securities. We determined that no other-than-temporary impairment losses existed as of December 31, 2007 as all holdings had successful auctions subsequent to December 31, 2007. However, if the issuer of the auction rate securities is unable to successfully close future auctions or does not redeem the auction rate securities, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of the auction rate securities and record other-than-temporary impairment charges in future periods, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we need to access the funds associated with auction rate securities but are unable to do so, our operations and financial condition could be materially harmed. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 