RISK FACTORS WE ARE EXPOSED TO GENERAL GLOBAL ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS, PARTICULARLY THOSE IMPACTING THE COMMUNICATIONS INDUSTRY. Developments in the communications industry, such as the impact of general global economic conditions, continued industry consolidation, the formation of alliances among network operators and service providers, and changes in the regulatory environment have had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our existing or potential customers. These conditions have reduced the high growth rates that the communications industry had previously experienced, and have caused the market value, financial results and prospects, and capital spending levels of many communications companies to decline or degrade. In recent years, the communications industry has experienced significant financial pressures that have caused many in the industry to cut expenses and limit investment in capital intensive projects and have led to numerous restructurings and bankruptcies. Recent communications company mergers may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In fiscal 2003, the need for communications providers to control operating expenses and capital investment budgets resulted in slowed customer buying decisions, as well as price pressures. Due to adverse conditions in the business environment for communications companies, our revenues declined in the first quarter of fiscal 2003 and as a result, we undertook a restructuring program to reduce costs. Although the decline in our quarterly revenue halted in the second quarter of fiscal 2003, adverse market conditions in the future could have a negative impact on our business by reducing the number of new contracts we are able to sign and the size of initial spending commitments, as well as decreasing the level of discretionary spending under contracts with existing customers. In addition, a reoccurrence of the slowdown in the buying decisions of communications providers could extend our sales cycle period and limit our ability to forecast our flow of new contracts. IF WE FAIL TO ADAPT TO CHANGING MARKET CONDITIONS AND CANNOT COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY WITH EXISTING OR NEW COMPETITORS, OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED. We may be unable to compete successfully with existing or new competitors. If we fail to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with established or new competitors, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We face intense competition for the software products and services that we sell, including competition for Managed Services we provide to customers under long-term service agreements. These Managed Services include services, such as system modernization and consolidation, operation of data centers, ongoing support, maintenance services, system modification, the provision of rating and billing services and communications facility management. The market for communications information systems is highly competitive and fragmented, and we expect competition to increase. We compete with independent providers of information systems and services and with the in-house software departments of communications companies. Our competitors include firms that provide comprehensive information systems and Managed Services solutions, software vendors that sell products for particular aspects of a total information system, software vendors that specialize in systems for particular communications services such as Internet, wireline and wireless services, systems integrators, service bureaus and companies that offer software systems in combination with the sale of network equipment. We believe that our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including: - the development by others of software that is competitive with our products and services, - the price at which others offer competitive software and services, - the responsiveness of our competitors to customer needs, and - the ability of our competitors to hire, retain and motivate key personnel. 6 We compete with a number of companies that have long operating histories, large customer bases, substantial financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, and strong name recognition. Current and potential competitors have established, and may establish in the future, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address the needs of our prospective customers. In addition, our competitors have acquired, and may continue to acquire in the future, companies that may enhance their market offerings. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. As a result, our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors. If we fail to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with established or new competitors, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. IF WE DO NOT CONTINUALLY ENHANCE OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICE OFFERINGS, WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY RETAINING EXISTING CUSTOMERS AND ATTRACTING NEW CUSTOMERS. We believe that our future success will depend, to a significant extent, upon our ability to enhance our existing products and to introduce new products and features to meet the requirements of our customers in a rapidly developing and evolving market. We are currently devoting significant resources to refining and expanding our base software modules and to developing Integrated Customer Management products that operate in state-of-the-art computing environments. Our present or future products may not satisfy the evolving needs of the communications industry or of other industries that we serve. If we are unable to anticipate or respond adequately to such needs, due to resource, technological or other constraints, our business and results of operations could be harmed. WE MAY SEEK TO ACQUIRE COMPANIES OR TECHNOLOGIES, THAT COULD DISRUPT OUR ONGOING BUSINESS, DISTRACT OUR MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEES AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. In July 2005, we acquired from DST Systems, Inc., which we refer to as DST, its DST Innovis, Inc. and DST Interactive, Inc. subsidiaries, which we refer to collectively as DST Innovis, a leading provider of customer care and billing solutions to broadband media cable and satellite companies. In August 2005, we acquired Longshine Information Technology Company Ltd., or Longshine, a leading vendor of customer care and billing software in China. In the future, we may acquire other companies where we believe we can acquire new products or services or otherwise enhance our market position or strategic strengths. We cannot assure you that suitable future acquisition candidates can be found, that acquisitions can be consummated on favorable terms or that we will be able to complete otherwise favorable acquisitions because of antitrust or other regulatory concerns. We cannot assure you that our acquisitions of DST Innovis or Longshine, or any future acquisitions that we may make, will enhance our products or strengthen our competitive position. In addition, our acquisitions of DST Innovis and Longshine, and any future acquisitions that we may make, could lead to difficulties in integrating acquired personnel and operations and in retaining and motivating key personnel from these businesses. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and harm our results of operations or financial condition. OUR BUSINESS IS DEPENDENT ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS, AND THE LOSS OF ANY ONE OF OUR SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS COULD HARM OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our business is dependent on a limited number of significant customers. Our three largest groups of customers are comprised of AT&T Inc., which was formerly known as SBC Communications Inc. and which we refer to as AT&T, Bell Canada and Sprint Nextel Corporation, which we refer to as Sprint Nextel and certain of their subsidiaries, each of which accounted for approximately 10% or more of our revenue in fiscal 2005. Aggregate revenue derived from the multiple business arrangements we have with our six largest customer groups accounted for approximately 63% of our revenue in fiscal 2005. AT&T has historically been one of our largest shareholders, and, as of December 16, 2005, it beneficially owned 7 approximately 5.3% of our outstanding ordinary shares. The loss of any significant customer or a significant decrease in business from any such customer could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Although we have received a substantial portion of our revenue from recurring business with established customers, most of our major customers do not have any obligation to purchase additional products or services from us and generally have already acquired fully paid licenses to their installed systems. Therefore, our customers may not continue to purchase new systems, system enhancements or services in amounts similar to previous years or may delay implementation of committed projects, each of which could reduce our revenues and profits. OUR FUTURE SUCCESS WILL DEPEND ON OUR ABILITY TO DEVELOP LONG-TERM RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS AND TO MEET THEIR EXPECTATIONS IN PROVIDING PRODUCTS AND PERFORMING SERVICES. We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to develop long-term relationships with successful network operators and service providers with the financial and other resources required to invest in significant ongoing Integrated Customer Management systems. If we are unable to develop new customer relationships, our business will be harmed. In addition, our business and results of operations depend in part on our ability to provide high quality services to customers that have already implemented our products. If we are unable to meet customers' expectations in providing products or performing services, our business and results of operations could be harmed. WE MAY BE EXPOSED TO THE CREDIT RISK OF CUSTOMERS THAT HAVE BEEN ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY WEAKENED MARKETS. We typically sell our software and related services as part of long-term projects. During the life of a project, a customer's budgeting constraints can impact the scope of a project and the customer's ability to make required payments. In addition, the creditworthiness of our customers may deteriorate over time, and we can be adversely affected by bankruptcies or other business failures. THE SKILLED AND HIGHLY QUALIFIED EMPLOYEES THAT WE NEED TO DEVELOP, IMPLEMENT AND MODIFY OUR SOLUTIONS MAY BE DIFFICULT TO HIRE AND RETAIN, AND IF WE ARE UNABLE TO HIRE AND RETAIN SUCH PERSONNEL, WE COULD FACE INCREASED COSTS TO RETAIN OUR SKILLED EMPLOYEES. Our business operations depend in large part on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled information technology professionals, software programmers and communications engineers on a worldwide basis. In addition, our competitive success will depend on our ability to attract and retain other outstanding, highly qualified employees. Because our software products are highly complex and are generally used by our customers to perform critical business functions, we depend heavily on skilled technology professionals. Skilled technology professionals are often in high demand and short supply. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified technology professionals to develop, implement and modify our solutions, we may be unable to meet the needs of our customers. In addition, if we were to obtain several new customers or implement several new large-scale projects in a short period of time, we may need to attract and train additional employees at a rapid rate. We may face difficulties identifying and hiring qualified personnel. Our inability to hire and retain the appropriate personnel could increase our costs of retaining skilled employees and make it difficult for us to manage our operations, to meet our commitments and to compete for new customer contracts. Our success will also depend, to a certain extent, upon the continued active participation of a relatively small group of senior management personnel. The loss of the services of all or some of these executives could harm our operations and impair our efforts to expand our business. 8 OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE, AND A DECLINE IN REVENUE IN ANY QUARTER COULD RESULT IN LOWER PROFITABILITY FOR THAT QUARTER AND FLUCTUATIONS IN THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR ORDINARY SHARES. We have experienced fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and anticipate that such movement may continue and could intensify. Fluctuations may result from many factors, including: - the size and timing of significant customer projects and license and service fees, - delays in or cancellations of significant projects by customers, - changes in operating expenses, - increased competition, - changes in our strategy, - personnel changes, - foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and - general economic and political conditions. Generally, our combined license fee revenue and service fee revenue relating to customization, modification, implementation and integration are recognized as work is performed, using the percentage of completion method of accounting. Given our reliance on a limited number of significant customers, our quarterly results may be significantly affected by the size and timing of customer projects and our progress in completing such projects. We believe that the placement of customer orders may be concentrated in specific quarterly periods due to the time requirements and budgetary constraints of our customers. Although we recognize revenue as projects progress, progress may vary significantly from project to project, and we believe that variations in quarterly revenue are sometimes attributable to the timing of initial order placements. Due to the relatively fixed nature of certain of our costs, a decline of revenue in any quarter could result in lower profitability for that quarter. In addition, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could cause significant fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares. OUR REVENUE, EARNINGS AND PROFITABILITY ARE IMPACTED BY THE LENGTH OF OUR SALES CYCLE, AND A LONGER SALES CYCLE COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. Our business is directly affected by the length of our sales cycle. Information systems for communications companies are relatively complex and their purchase generally involves a significant commitment of capital, with attendant delays frequently associated with large capital expenditures and procurement procedures within an organization. The purchase of these types of products typically also requires coordination and agreement across many departments within a potential customer's organization. Delays associated with such timing factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In periods of economic slowdown in the communications industry, our typical sales cycle lengthens, which means that the average time between our initial contact with a prospective customer and the signing of a sales contract increases. In fiscal 2003, buying decisions of communications providers were often delayed due to adverse conditions in the business environment, and our sales cycle period lengthened as a result. Although this trend improved in fiscal 2004 and 2005, the lengthening of our sales cycle could reduce growth in our revenue in the future. In addition, the lengthening of our sales cycle contributes to an increased cost of sales, thereby reducing our profitability. IF THE MARKET FOR OUR PRODUCTS DETERIORATES, WE MAY INCUR ADDITIONAL RESTRUCTURING CHARGES. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we commenced a series of measures designed to align our operational structure to our expected future growth, to allow better integration of our recent DST Innovis and Longshine acquisitions and to improve efficiency, which included termination of employment of software and IT specialists and administrative professionals at various locations around the world. A 9 reduction in personnel can result in significant severance, administrative and legal expenses and may also adversely affect or delay various sales, marketing and product development programs and activities. Depending on market conditions in the communications industry and our business and financial needs, we may be forced to implement additional restructuring plans to further reduce our costs, which could result in additional restructuring charges. Additional restructuring charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. IF WE FAIL TO SUCCESSFULLY PLAN AND MANAGE CHANGES IN THE SIZE OF OUR OPERATIONS OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER. Over the last several years, we have both grown and contracted our operations in order to profitably offer our products and services in a rapidly changing market. If we are unable to manage these changes and plan and manage any future changes in the size and scope of our operations, our business will suffer. Our restructurings and cost reduction measures reduced the size of our operations. On January 31, 2003, after implementation of personnel reductions, our workforce consisted of approximately 7,800 individuals in software and information technology positions, compared to approximately 9,100 on November 30, 2001. Our software and information technology workforce increased to approximately 9,000 positions as of November 30, 2003, primarily as a result of the Certen acquisition in July 2003 and a Managed Services agreement signed in January 2003, to approximately 9,600 positions as of September 30, 2004 and to approximately 12,000 as of September 30, 2005. The increase in technology workforce in fiscal 2005 was attributable to our DST Innovis and Longshine acquisitions, as well to organic growth in the size of our operations. During periods of contraction, we have disposed of office space and related obligations in efforts to keep pace with the changing size of our operations and we may do so in the future. These cost reduction measures have included, and may in the future include, consolidating and/or relocating certain of our operations to different geographic locations. These activities could lead to difficulties and significant expenses related to subleasing or assigning any surplus space. We have accrued the estimated expenses that will result from our past restructuring efforts. However, if it is determined that the amount accrued is insufficient, an additional charge could have an unfavorable impact on our consolidated financial statements in the period this was determined. OUR INTERNATIONAL PRESENCE EXPOSES US TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH VARIED AND CHANGING POLITICAL, CULTURAL, LEGAL AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS WORLDWIDE. We are affected by risks associated with conducting business internationally. We maintain development facilities in Canada, China, Cyprus, India, Ireland, Israel and the United States, operate a support center in Brazil and have operations in North America, Europe, Latin America and the Asia- Pacific region. Although a majority of our revenue is derived from customers in North America and Europe, we obtain significant revenue from customers in the Asia-Pacific region and Latin America. Our strategy is to continue to broaden our North American and European customer base and to expand into new international markets. Conducting business internationally exposes us to certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: - lack of acceptance of non-localized products, - legal and cultural differences in the conduct of business, - difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, - longer payment cycles, - difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and withholding taxes that limit the repatriation of earnings, - trade barriers, - difficulties in complying with varied legal and regulatory requirements across jurisdictions, - immigration regulations that limit our ability to deploy our employees, 10 - political instability, and - variations in effective income tax rates among countries where we conduct business. One or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN THE MIDDLE EAST, CYPRUS AND OTHER COUNTRIES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Of the development centers we maintain worldwide, our largest development center is located in five different sites throughout Israel. Approximately 39% of our employees are located in Israel. As a result, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel and its neighboring region. Any major hostilities involving Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have developed contingency plans to provide ongoing services to our customers in the event political or military conditions disrupt our normal operations. These plans include the transfer of some development operations within Israel to various of our other sites both within and outside of Israel. If we have to implement these plans, our operations would be disrupted and we would incur significant additional expenditures, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. While Israel has entered into peace agreements with both Egypt and Jordan, Israel has not entered into peace arrangements with any other neighboring countries. Over the past several years there has been a significant deterioration in Israel's relationship with the Palestinian Authority and a related increase in violence. Efforts to resolve the problem have failed to result in an agreeable solution. Continued violence between the Palestinian community and Israel may have a material adverse effect on our business. Further deterioration of relations with the Palestinian Authority might require more military reserve service by some of our employees, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our development facility in Cyprus may be adversely affected by political conditions in that country. As a result of intercommunal strife between the Greek and Turkish communities, Turkish troops invaded Cyprus in 1974 and continue to occupy approximately 40% of the island. Although Cyprus has joined the European Union, intensive discussions facilitated by the United Nations, the European Union and the United States did not result in an agreed-upon plan of reunification for Cyprus. Any major hostilities between Cyprus and Turkey or the failure of the parties to finalize a peaceful resolution may have a material adverse effect on our development facility in Cyprus. In 2004, we established a development center in India, and we have recently expanded our operations in Russia and China. Conducting business in each of these countries involves unique challenges, including political instability, the transparency, consistency and effectiveness of business regulation, the protection of intellectual property, and the availability of sufficient qualified local personnel. Any of these or other challenges associated with operating in these countries may adversely affect our business or operations. OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS EXPOSE US TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH FLUCTUATIONS IN FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Although we have operations throughout the world, the majority of our revenues and approximately 50% of our costs are denominated in, or linked to, the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, we consider the U.S. dollar to be our functional currency. However, approximately 50% of our operating costs in fiscal 2005 were incurred outside the United States in other currencies. Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates between the currencies in which such costs are incurred and the dollar may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The cost of our operations outside of the United States, as expressed in dollars, could be adversely affected by the extent to which any increase in the rate of inflation in a particular country is not offset (or is offset with a time delay) by a devaluation of the local currency in relation to the dollar. As a result of this differential, from time to time we may experience increases in the costs of our operations outside the United States, as expressed in dollars, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 11 In addition, a portion of our revenue (approximately 30% in fiscal 2005) is not incurred in dollars or linked to the dollar, and, therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates between the currencies in which such revenue is incurred and the dollar may have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If more of our customers seek contracts that are denominated in currencies such as the Euro and not the dollar, our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates could increase. Generally, the effects of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates are mitigated by the fact that the majority of our revenue and approximately 50% of our operating costs are in dollars or linked to the dollar and we generally hedge our currency exposure on both a short-term and long-term basis with respect to expected revenue and operating costs. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively limit all of our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. The imposition of exchange or price controls or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY FROM MISAPPROPRIATION, OUR BUSINESS MAY BE HARMED. Any misappropriation of our technology or the development of competitive technology could seriously harm our business. Our software and software systems are largely comprised of software and systems we have developed or acquired and that we regard as proprietary. We rely upon a combination of trademarks, patents, contractual rights, trade secret law, copyrights, non-disclosure agreements and other methods to protect our proprietary rights. We also enter into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with our customers, employees and marketing representatives and with certain contractors with access to sensitive information and we also limit our customer access to the source codes of our software and our software systems. However, we do not include in our software any mechanisms to prevent or inhibit unauthorized use. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate. If so, we might not be able to prevent others from using what we regard as our technology to compete with us. Existing trade secret, copyright and trademark laws offer only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary technology or allow enforcement of confidentiality covenants to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If we have to resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, the proceedings could be burdensome, protracted and expensive and could involve a high degree of risk. CLAIMS BY OTHERS THAT WE INFRINGE THEIR PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our software and software systems are largely comprised of software and systems that we have developed or acquired and that we regard as proprietary. Our software and software systems are the results of long and complex development processes, and although our technology is not significantly dependent on patents or licenses from third parties, certain aspects of our products make use of readily available software components that we license from third parties, including our employees and contractors. As a developer of complex software systems, third parties may claim that portions of our systems violate their intellectual property rights. The ability to develop and use our software and software systems requires knowledge and professional experience that we believe is unique to us and would be very difficult for others to independently obtain, however, our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. We expect that software developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors providing software and services to the communications industry increases and overlaps occur. Any claim of infringement by a third party could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, and could distract our management from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. 12 A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from selling our products or offering our services, or prevent a customer from continuing to use our products. Any of these events could seriously harm our business. If anyone asserts a claim against us relating to proprietary technology or information, while we might seek to license their intellectual property, we might not be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms or on any terms. In addition, any efforts to develop non-infringing technology could be unsuccessful. Our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights or to develop non-infringing technology could prevent us from selling our products and could therefore seriously harm our business. PRODUCT DEFECTS OR SOFTWARE ERRORS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Design defects or software errors may cause delays in product introductions or damage customer satisfaction and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our software products are highly complex and may, from time to time, contain design defects or software errors that may be difficult to detect and correct. Because our products are generally used by our customers to perform critical business functions, design defects, software errors, misuse of our products, incorrect data from external sources or other potential problems within or out of our control may arise from the use of our products, and may result in financial or other damages to our customers, for which we may be held responsible. Although we have license agreements with our customers that contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential claims and liabilities arising from customer problems, these provisions may not effectively protect us against such claims in all cases and in all jurisdictions. In addition, as a result of business and other considerations, we may undertake to compensate our customers for damages caused to them arising from the use of our products, even if our liability is limited by a license or other agreement. Claims and liabilities arising from customer problems could also damage our reputation, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition and the ability to obtain "Errors and Omissions" insurance. SYSTEM DISRUPTIONS AND FAILURES MAY RESULT IN CUSTOMER DISSATISFACTION, CUSTOMER LOSS OR BOTH, WHICH COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REPUTATION AND BUSINESS. Our systems are an integral part of our customers' business operations. The continued and uninterrupted performance of these systems by our customers is critical to our success. Customers may become dissatisfied by any system failure that interrupts our ability to provide services to them. Sustained or repeated system failures would reduce the attractiveness of our services significantly, and could result in decreased demand for our products and services. Our ability to perform Managed Services depends on our ability to protect our computer systems against damage from fire, power loss, water damage, telecommunications failures, earthquake, terrorism attack, vandalism and similar unexpected adverse events. Despite our efforts to implement network security measures, our systems are also vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. We do not carry enough business interruption insurance to compensate for any significant losses that may occur as a result of any of these events. We have experienced systems outages and service interruptions in the past. We expect to experience additional outages in the future. To date, these outages have not had a material adverse effect on us. However, in the future, a prolonged system-wide outage or frequent outages could cause harm to our reputation and could cause our customers to make claims against us for damages allegedly resulting from an outage or interruption. Any damage or failure that interrupts or delays our operations could result in material harm to our business and expose us to material liabilities. 13 THE TERMINATION OR REDUCTION OF CERTAIN GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS AND TAX BENEFITS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OVERALL EFFECTIVE TAX RATE. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate of 20% for the year ended September 30, 2005 will not change over time as a result of changes in corporate income tax rates or other changes in the tax laws of the various countries in which we operate. We have benefited or currently benefit from a variety of government programs and tax benefits that generally carry conditions that we must meet in order to be eligible to obtain any benefit. For example, the government of Cyprus has issued a permit to our Cypriot subsidiary pursuant to which its activities are deemed to be offshore activities for Cypriot tax purposes, resulting in an effective tax rate in Cyprus of 4.25%. This tax rate will continue to apply to our Cypriot subsidiary until December 31, 2005. As of January 1, 2006 our Cypriot subsidiary will be subject to the generally applicable 10% corporate tax rate. Pursuant to legislation in 2004, Israeli companies are generally subject to a company tax rate on taxable income of 34% for 2005, 31% for 2006, 29% for 2007, 27% for 2008, 26% for 2009 and 25% for 2010 and thereafter. However, certain production and development facilities of our Israeli subsidiary have been granted "Approved Enterprise" status that allows for taxation at a rate of 25% or lower. The entitlement of these facilities to reduced taxation is subject to certain time limitations. The Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959 ("Investment Law"), which allows the benefits granted for Approved Enterprises, was amended in 2005 to impose additional eligibility criteria for Approved Enterprise benefits. The Company's management does not believe that the new Investment Law would have a material effect on the Company in 2006. If we fail to meet the conditions upon which certain favorable tax treatment is based, we would not be able to claim future tax benefits and could be required to refund tax benefits already received. Additionally, some of these programs and the related tax benefits are available to us for a limited number of years, and these benefits expire from time to time. For example, our favorable tax treatment in India expires in March 2009 and is limited to income derived from specific pre-approved information technology activities. Any of the following could have a material effect on our overall effective tax rate: - some programs may be discontinued, - we may be unable to meet the requirements for continuing to qualify for some programs, - these programs and tax benefits may be unavailable at their current levels, - upon expiration of a particular benefit, we may not be eligible to participate in a new program or qualify for a new tax benefit that would offset the loss of the expiring tax benefit, or - we may be required to refund previously recognized tax benefits if we are found to be in violation of the stipulated conditions. WE ARE CURRENTLY THE SUBJECT OF A SECURITIES EXCHANGE COMMISSION INVESTIGATION, WHICH COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. In 2003, we were informed that the Midwest Regional Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), was conducting a private investigation into the events leading up to our announcement in June 2002 of revised projected revenue for the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2002. The investigation appeared to be focused on, but was not explicitly limited to, our forecasting beginning with our April 23, 2002 press release. We responded to an initial document request by the SEC, but have not received any requests for additional information or had any substantive contacts with the SEC related to this investigation since 2003. We have cooperated with the SEC staff and believe that we would be able to satisfy any concerns the SEC staff may have as to the matters under investigation. However, we are unable to predict whether the SEC will actively pursue this investigation or what the outcome may be. At a minimum, this investigation may divert the attention of our management and other resources that would otherwise be engaged in operating our business. 14 THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR ORDINARY SHARES HAS AND MAY CONTINUE TO FLUCTUATE WIDELY. The market price of our ordinary shares has fluctuated widely and may continue to do so. During fiscal year 2005, our ordinary shares have traded as high as $30.96 per share and as low as $20.70 per share. Our ordinary shares traded as high as $80.50 per share in fiscal 2001 and as low as $5.85 per share in fiscal 2003. As of December 27, 2005, the closing price of our ordinary shares was $27.46 per share. Many factors could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to rise and fall, including: - market conditions in the industry and the economy as a whole, - variations in our quarterly operating results, - announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors, - introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or our competitors, - trends in the communications or software industries, including industry consolidation, - acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or others in our industry, - changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations by financial analysts, and - political developments in the Middle East. In addition, the stock market often experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations particularly affect the market prices of the securities of many high technology companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. IT MAY BE DIFFICULT FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS TO ENFORCE ANY JUDGMENT OBTAINED IN THE UNITED STATES AGAINST US OR OUR AFFILIATES. We are incorporated under the laws of the Island of Guernsey and a majority of our directors and executive officers are not citizens or residents of the United States. A significant portion of our assets and the assets of those persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process upon us within the United States or upon such persons outside their jurisdiction of residence. Also, we have been advised that there is doubt as to the enforceability in Guernsey of judgments of the U.S. courts of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the laws of the United States, including the federal securities laws. 