Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in shares of our common stock involves various risks. Before deciding to invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K and information incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Our provision for loan losses increased substantially during each of the past two fiscal years and we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, especially due to our level of non-performing assets. Further, our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. For the year ended September 30, 2010, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $26.1 million and net loan charge-offs of $19.7 million. Our non-performing assets increased from $67.8 million, or 4.82% of total assets at September 30, 2009 to $74.5 million, or 5.13% of total assets at September 30, 2010. The increase was primarily due to the weakened economy and the softening real estate market. If the economy and/or the real estate market continues to weaken these assets may not perform according to their terms and the value of the collateral may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. If this occurs, we may experience losses, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. Federal regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our commercial lending exposes us to lending risks. At September 30, 2010, $561.1 million, or 52.4%, of our loan portfolio consisted of multi-family, commercial and certain residential real estate and commercial industrial loans. We intend to continue to emphasize these types of lending. Commercial loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the business and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. 36 Our emphasis on residential mortgage loans and home equity loans exposes us to lending risks. At September 30, 2010, $243.6 million, or 22.8%, of our loan portfolio consisted of one- to four-family residential first mortgage loans, $60.3 million, or 5.6%, of our loan portfolio consisted of one- four-family residential second mortgage loans and $201.9 million, or 18.9%, of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity lines of credit. Recent declines in the housing market have resulted in declines in real estate values in our market areas. These declines in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage and home equity loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. High loan-to-value ratios on a significant portion of our residential mortgage and home equity line of credit portfolios expose us to greater risk of loss. Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because we originated a first mortgage with an 80% loan-to-value ratio at the time of purchase and a concurrent second mortgage with a combined loan-to-value ratio of up to 100%. At September 30, 2010, approximately $31.3 million of second mortgage loans, or 10.3% of our $303.8 million residential mortgage loan portfolio, had original combined loan-to-value ratios in excess of 90%, based on appraisals obtained at the time of origination. In addition, our home equity lines of credit may have, when added to existing senior lien balances, a combined loan-to-value ratio at the date of origination based upon the fully-disbursed amount, of up to 100% of the value of the home securing the loan. At September 30, 2010, we held $9.6 million of uninsured home equity lines of credit with a combined loan-to-value ratio in excess of 90%. Our average loan-to-value ratio in our home equity line of credit portfolio is below 80%. These loan-to-value ratios are based on values at the time of origination. Subsequent declines in real estate values have likely resulted in an increase in such ratios. Residential loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than would those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and, therefore, may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the proceeds of the sale. The unseasoned nature of many loans in our commercial loan portfolio may result in errors in judging their collectability, which may lead to additional provisions for loan losses and/or charge-offs, which would reduce our profits. Our commercial loan portfolio, which includes loans secured by commercial, multi-family and residential real estate as well as business assets, has decreased $35.8 million, or 6.0%, to $561.1 million at September 30, 2010 from $596.9 million at September 30, 2009, but increased $291.0 million from $270.1 million at September 30, 2006. A large portion of our commercial loan portfolio is unseasoned and does not provide us with a significant payment history pattern from which to judge future collectability. As a result, it is difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance. Further, commercial loans generally have larger balances and involve a greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per-loan basis than those incurred with our residential mortgage loan portfolio. 37 Our earnings could be negatively affected if the level of our non-performing assets increases further. During the last three fiscal years, due primarily to the economic environment, our total non-performing assets increased from $13.6 million at September 30, 2007 to $74.5 million at September 30, 2010. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or real estate acquired through foreclosure, which has a negative impact on our net interest margin. An increase in non-performing assets might require additions to our allowance for loan losses through provisions for loan losses, which are recorded as a charge to income. From time to time, we may record write downs of the value of properties that we previously acquired through foreclosure to reflect changing market values, which are also recorded as a charge to income. There are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to foreclosed properties. If the value of real estate in the St. Louis and Kansas City metropolitan areas were to continue to decline, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The St. Louis and Kansas City metropolitan areas have experienced declines in home prices over the past two years. A further decline in local economic conditions could have an additional adverse affect on the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans. A continued decline in property values would diminish our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral, making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would reduce our profits. Also, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. Real estate values are affected by various factors in addition to local economic conditions, including, among other things, changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. Our business is subject to the success of the local economy in which we operate. Since the latter half of 2007, depressed economic conditions have existed throughout the United States, including our market area. Our market area has experienced home price declines, increased foreclosures and increased unemployment rates. Continued deterioration of economic conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased loan delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in our market areas in Missouri and Kansas could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and our stock price. As a result of the general economic downturn and uncertainty in the financial markets, commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to continue to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance or our stock price. 38 Recently enacted regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act restructures the regulation of depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision will be merged into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which regulates national banks. Savings and loan holding companies will be regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. Also included is the creation of a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that is now performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws currently accorded federally chartered depository institutions will be reduced as well. The Dodd-Frank Act also will impose consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies effective in five years, which will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in the Bank that could be leveraged to support additional growth. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. The Company’s ability to pay dividends and meet its interest obligations are subject to the ability of the Bank to make capital distributions to the Company. The Company’s ongoing liquidity needs include funding its general operating expenses, paying dividends on its common and preferred stock and paying interest on its subordinated debentures. The Company is dependent on the receipt of dividends from the Bank to satisfy these obligations. Under OTS regulations as they currently apply to the Bank, the Bank is required to obtain prior approval from the OTS before it can make a capital distribution to the Company. If the Bank cannot obtain such approval and is unable to make a capital distribution to the Company, the Company would need to find other sources of liquidity or reduce its obligations, which would require it to reduce or eliminate its dividend to common shareholders and/or suspend its dividend payments on its preferred stock and its interest payments on its subordinated debentures. An increase in interest rates may reduce our mortgage revenues, which would negatively impact our non-interest income. Our mortgage banking operations provide a significant portion of our non-interest income. We generate mortgage revenues primarily from gains on the sale of loans to investors on a servicing-released basis. In a rising or higher interest rate environment, our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors. This would result in a decrease in mortgage revenues and a corresponding decrease in non-interest income. In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of non-interest expenses associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense and other operating costs. During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations. In addition, we generally sell these loans to investors on a “best efforts” basis whereby we obtain commitments from our investors to purchase these loans 30 to 60 days in the future for a fixed price at or near the time we issue a commitment to our borrowers to originate the loans, thus locking in the profit on the ultimate sale. During periods of rising interest rates, if we cannot deliver these loans to our investors during the specified commitment period because we are unable to satisfy all prerequisites required by them to purchase such loans, we may lose the ability to deliver the loans to them at the commitment price, resulting in a reduction of our mortgage revenues and a compression of the profit margin on loans sold. 39 Secondary mortgage market conditions could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to being affected by interest rates, the secondary mortgage markets are also subject to investor demand for residential mortgage loans and increased investor yield requirements for those loans. These conditions may fluctuate or even worsen in the future. In light of current conditions, there is a higher risk to retaining a larger portion of mortgage loans than we would in other environments until they are sold to investors. We believe our ability to retain fixed-rate residential mortgage loans is limited. As a result, a prolonged period of secondary market illiquidity may reduce our loan production volumes and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. If we are required to repurchase mortgage loans that we have previously sold, it would negatively affect our earnings. One of our primary business operations is our mortgage banking operations, under which we sell residential mortgage loans in the secondary market under agreements that contain representations and warranties related to, among other things, the origination and characteristics of the mortgage loans. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that we have sold in cases of breaches of these representations and warranties. We have experienced and continue to experience increasing repurchase demands from and disputes with these buyers. If we are required to repurchase mortgage loans or provide indemnification or other recourse, this could significantly increase our costs and thereby affect our future earnings. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., the prime rate) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. We principally manage interest-rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. 40 If the goodwill that we recorded in connection with a business acquisition becomes impaired, it could have a negative impact on our profitability. Goodwill represents the amount of acquisition cost over the fair value of net assets we acquired in the purchase of another financial institution. We review goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the asset might be impaired. We determine impairment by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Any such adjustments are reflected in our results of operations in the periods in which they become known. At September 30, 2010, our goodwill totaled $3.9 million. While we have recorded no such impairment charges since we initially recorded the goodwill, there can be no assurance that our future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business strategy includes the continuation of moderate growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. Our assets increased $45.7 million, or 3.3%, from $1.41 billion at September 30, 2009 to $1.45 billion at September 30, 2010, primarily due to increases in residential real estate loans held for sale. We expect to continue to experience growth in the amount of our assets, the level of our deposits and the scale of our operations. Achieving our growth targets requires us to attract customers that currently bank at other financial institutions in our market, thereby increasing our share of the market. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to attract and retain experienced bankers, the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance growth opportunities will be available or that we will successfully manage our growth. If we do not manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to achieve our business plan, and our business and prospects could be harmed. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that we have sufficient capital resources to satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. If we raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities, it would dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders which may adversely impact our current shareholders. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. 41 Our wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits at maturity and support our future growth. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. As we continue to grow, we may become more dependent on these sources, which include FHLB advances, borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank, proceeds from the sale of loans, and brokered certificates of deposit. At September 30, 2010, we had $181.0 million of FHLB advances outstanding with an additional $175.0 million available borrowing capacity, no borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank outstanding with $153.0 million of available borrowing capacity and $8.4 million in brokered certificates of deposit. If we were to become less than “well capitalized,” as defined by applicable OTS regulations, it would materially restrict our ability to acquire and retain brokered certificates of deposit and could reduce the maximum borrowing limits we currently have available through the FHLB and the Federal Reserve Bank. Additionally, adverse operating results or changes in industry conditions could lead to difficulty or an inability to access these additional funding sources. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. The building of market share through our branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues. We may continue to build market share in the St. Louis metropolitan area through our branching strategy. We opened three new branches during calendar year 2007. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally require a period of time to generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale. We have no assurance our new branches will be successful even after they have been established. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. Our future success and profitability is substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend, in part, upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management. We are especially dependent on a limited number of key management personnel, none of whom has an employment agreement with us, except for our chief executive officer. The loss of the chief executive officer and other senior executive officers could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to continue to recruit and retain qualified loan originators could adversely affect our ability to compete successfully and affect our profitability. Our continued success and future growth depend heavily on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and motivated loan originators and other banking professionals. We compete against many institutions with greater financial resources both within our industry and in other industries to attract these qualified individuals. Our failure to recruit and retain adequate talent could reduce our ability to compete successfully and adversely affect our business and profitability. 42 The limitations on dividends and repurchases imposed through our participation in the Capital Purchase Program may make our common stock a less attractive investment. On January 16, 2009, the United States Department of the Treasury purchased newly issued shares of our preferred stock as part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program’s Capital Purchase Program. As part of this transaction, we agreed to not increase the dividend paid on our common stock and to not repurchase shares of our common stock for a period of three years. These capital management devices contribute to the attractiveness of our common stock and limitations and prohibitions on such activities may make our common stock less attractive to investors. The limitations on executive compensation imposed through our participation in the Capital Purchase Program may restrict our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees, which could adversely affect our operations. As part of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, we agreed to be bound by certain executive compensation restrictions, including limitations on severance payments and the clawback of any bonus and incentive compensation that were based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provides more stringent limitations on severance pay and the payment of bonuses to certain officers and highly compensated employees. To the extent that any of these compensation restrictions limit our ability to provide a comprehensive compensation package to our key employees that is competitive in our market area, we may have difficulty in attracting, retaining and motivating our key employees, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. It the U. S. Treasury Department chooses to exercise the warrant, existing stockowners’ ownership interests will be diluted and it could become more difficult for us to take certain actions that may be in the best interests of shareholders. In addition to the issuance of preferred shares, we also granted the U.S. Treasury Department a warrant to purchase 778,421 common shares at a price of $6.27 per share. If the U.S. Treasury Department exercises the entire warrant, it would result in a significant dilution to the ownership interest of our existing stockholders and dilute the earnings per share value of our common stock. Further, if the U.S. Treasury Department exercises the entire warrant, it will become the second largest shareholder of the Company. The U.S. Treasury Department has agreed that it will not exercise voting power with regard to the shares that it acquires by exercising the warrant. However, U.S. Treasury Department’s abstention from voting may make it more difficult for us to obtain shareholder approval for those matters that require a majority of total shares outstanding, such as a business combination involving the Company. The terms governing the issuance of the preferred stock to Treasury may be changed, the effect of which may have an adverse effect on our operations. The Securities Purchase Agreement that we entered into with the U.S. Treasury Department provides that it may unilaterally amend any provision of the agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes in applicable federal statutes that may occur in the future. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 placed more stringent limits on executive compensation for participants in the TARP Capital Purchase Program and established a requirement that compensation paid to executives be presented to shareholders for a “non-binding” vote. Further changes in the terms of the transaction may occur in the future. Such changes may place further restrictions on our business or results of operations, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 43 Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. These increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $700,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring that all institutions prepay their assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. This pre-payment was on December 30, 2009. Under the rule, the assessment rate for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for 2010 is based on each institution’s total base assessment rate for the third quarter of 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 had been in effect for the entire third quarter, and the assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 will be equal to the modified third quarter assessment rate plus an additional 3 basis points. In addition, each institution’s base assessment rate for each period will be calculated using its third quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. Under this rule, we were required to make a payment of approximately $7.3 million to the FDIC on December 30, 2009. We recorded this payment as a prepaid expense and are amortizing the expense over the three year assessment period. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Pulaski Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS, its chartering authority, and by the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits. The Company is subject to regulation and supervision by the OTS. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of Pulaski Bank. The regulation and supervision by the OTS and the FDIC are not intended to protect the interests of investors in our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the adverse classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq that are applicable to us, have, in recent years, increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, including the costs of completing our audit and maintaining our internal controls. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. Additionally, we outsource our data processing to a third party. If our third party provider encounters difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third party, it will significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect our business operations. 44 Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our growth and profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and has occasionally forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. Many of our competitors are larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, smaller resources and smaller lending limits, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance this strategy will be successful. We may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. 45 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 