ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSAny of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations.Risks Related to our Common Stock and Our Substantial IndebtednessThe price of our Common Stock may be volatile and may fluctuate substantially, which could negatively affect holders of our Common Stock.The market price of our Common Stock may fluctuate widely as a result of various factors, including but not limited to period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results, the volume of sales of our Common Stock, dilution, developments in the communications industry, the failure of securities analysts to cover our Common Stock, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, short interests in our Common Stock, competitive factors, regulatory developments, economic and other external factors, general market conditions and market conditions affecting the stock of communications companies in general. Communications companies have, in the past, experienced extreme volatility in the trading prices and volumes of their securities, which has often been unrelated to operating performance. High levels of market volatility may have a significant adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, in the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock prices. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock.We have substantial indebtedness which could have a negative impact on our financing options and liquidity position and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness.As of December 31, 2012, on a pro forma basis after giving effect to the consummation of the Refinancing, the 2013 divestiture of our operations in Idaho and subsequent 2013 repayments on the Old Credit Agreement, our total indebtedness would have been approximately $942.7 million (including approximately $2.7 million of capital leases) and $63.0 million would have been available for borrowing under the New Revolving Facility, net of $12.0 million outstanding letters of credit. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences including:•making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt agreements;•requiring us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to paying the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, thereby limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund future capital expenditures, working capital and other corporate purposes;•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions;•limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders;•limiting our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all;•restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;18Table of Contents•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the communications industry generally;•placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared with competitors that have a less significant debt burden; and•making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limiting our ability to withstand competitive pressures.Our ability to continue to fund our debt service requirements and to reduce debt may be affected by general economic, financial market, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, among other things. An inability to fund our debt service requirements, reduce debt or satisfy debt covenant requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.In addition, a substantial portion of our indebtedness, including borrowings under the New Credit Agreement, bears interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, our variable rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow. In addition, interest payments on the New Term Loan based on a British Bankers Association LIBOR rate ("LIBOR") are subject to a floor of 1.25%. While LIBOR remains below 1.25% we may incur interest costs above market rates. While we may enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher interest rates, such agreements may not offer complete protection from this risk.Despite our substantial indebtedness level, we will still be able to incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness.We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the New Credit Agreement and the Indenture contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions and, under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt, including future shared collateral debt, is added to our existing debt levels, the related risks that we now face could increase.To operate and expand our business, service our indebtedness and meet our other cash needs, we will require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to repay or refinance our indebtedness at maturity or otherwise or to fund our operations and capital expenditure needs, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy such obligations, which may not be successful.Our ability to make payments on, or repay or refinance, our indebtedness, to fund our operations and to fund planned capital expenditures, unanticipated capital expenditures and other cash needs will depend largely upon our financial condition and operating performance, including our ability to execute on our business plan. Our future operating performance, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, such as any pension contributions required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), that are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to incur additional debt in the future will depend on our satisfaction of the covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness. Specifically, we will need to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial condition tests. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from our operations to allow us to meet our debt service requirements, fund our operations and make necessary capital expenditures, we would have to consider other options, some of which may not be available to us due to limitations imposed by our existing financing arrangements, including:•sales of assets;•reduction or delay of capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances; •obtaining additional capital in the form of equity or debt; or•negotiations with our lenders to restructure or refinance the applicable debt.We can provide no assurance that we would be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness may restrict, or market or business conditions may limit, our ability to take some of these actions or the effectiveness of these actions.An inability to generate sufficient cash from operations to repay or refinance our indebtedness at maturity or otherwise or to fund our operations could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.19Table of ContentsOur debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business.The New Credit Agreement and the Indenture contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit us and our restricted subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:•incur additional indebtedness;•pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments;•make certain investments;•sell certain assets;•create liens;•enter into sale and leaseback transactions;•consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and•enter into certain transactions with our affiliates.A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the New Credit Agreement or the Indenture, including as a result of cross default provisions. Such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, any debt agreements we enter into in the future may further limit our ability to enter into certain types of transactions.In addition, the restrictive covenants in the New Credit Agreement require us to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests depends on our ongoing financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to economic conditions and to financial, market and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources" and note (20) "Subsequent Events" to our consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" included elsewhere in this Annual Report for more information regarding the New Credit Agreement and the Indenture.FairPoint Communications is a holding company and depends upon the cash flows of its operating subsidiaries to service its indebtedness and meet its other cash flow needs.FairPoint Communications is a holding company and conducts no operations. Accordingly, its cash flow and its ability to make payments on, or repay or refinance, its indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and other cash needs will depend largely upon the cash flows of its operating subsidiaries and the payment of funds by those subsidiaries to it in the form of repayment of loans, dividends, management fees or otherwise. Distributions to FairPoint Communications from its subsidiaries will depend on their respective operating results and will be subject to restrictions under, among other things,•the laws of their jurisdiction of organization;•the rules and regulations of state and federal regulatory authorities;•agreements of those subsidiaries, including agreements governing their indebtedness; and•regulatory orders.FairPoint Communications' subsidiaries have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available, whether in the form of loans, dividends or other distributions, to it. Any inability to receive distributions from its subsidiaries could have a material adverse impact on its business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.Limitations on our ability to use NOL carryforwards, and other factors requiring us to pay cash to satisfy our tax liabilities in future periods, may affect our ability to repay our indebtedness.As of December 31, 2011, our NOLs have been substantially reduced by the recognition of gains on the discharge of certain debt pursuant to the Plan. In addition, our emergence from bankruptcy resulted in an ownership change for federal income tax purposes under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). This followed previous ownership changes resulting from our initial public offering in February 2005, which resulted in an "ownership change" within the meaning of the United States federal income tax laws addressing NOL carryforwards, alternative minimum tax credits and other similar tax attributes. Moreover, the Merger with Spinco resulted in a further ownership change for these purposes. As a result of these ownership changes, there are specific limitations on our ability to use these NOL carryforwards and other tax attributes from periods prior to the initial public offering and the Merger. Although we do not expect that these limitations will materially affect our United States federal and state income tax liability in the near term, it is possible in the future if we were to generate taxable 20Table of Contentsincome in excess of the limitation on usage of NOL carryforwards that these limitations could limit our ability to utilize the carryforwards and, therefore, result in an increase in our United States federal and state income tax payments over the amount we otherwise would have, had we not experienced an ownership change. In addition, in the future we will be required to pay cash to satisfy our tax liabilities when all of our NOL carryforwards have been used or have expired. Limitations on our usage of NOL carryforwards, and other factors requiring us to pay cash taxes in the future, would reduce the funds available to fund our operations, make capital expenditures, service our indebtedness and pay dividends, if any, in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.Concentration of ownership among stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions.Based on Schedules 13D and 13G filed by the respective holders, as of February 14, 2013, there are some institutional holders who own 5% or more of our outstanding Common Stock. As a result, these stockholders may be able to exercise significant control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of corporate transactions and could gain significant control over our management and policies as a result thereof.Future sales or the possibility of future sales of a substantial amount of our Common Stock may depress the price of our Common Stock.Future sales, or the availability for sale in the public market, of substantial amounts of our Common Stock could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Common Stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities. The market price of our Common Stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our Common Stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, may also make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital by selling equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate.As of February 28, 2013, we had 26,475,358 shares of Common Stock outstanding. All such shares are freely traded except for any shares of our Common Stock that may be held or acquired by our directors, executive officers, employee insiders and other affiliates, as that term is defined in the Securities Act, which will be restricted securities under the Securities Act. Restricted securities may not be sold in the public market unless the sale is registered under the Securities Act or an exemption from registration is available. In addition, Angelo Gordon & Co., L.P. ("Angelo Gordon") and entities advised by Angelo Gordon have certain registration rights with respect to the Common Stock they hold or may acquire in the future.We may issue shares of our Common Stock, or other securities, from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. In the event any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of our Common Stock, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be significant. We may also grant registration rights covering these shares or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments.We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future.We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends on shares of our Common Stock for the foreseeable future. Because we are a holding company, our ability to pay dividends depends on our receipt of dividends from our operating subsidiaries. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon limitations imposed by results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions contained in the New Credit Agreement and the Indenture or indebtedness we may incur in the future, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board of directors may then deem relevant.Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance. From time to time, we have released and may continue to release guidance regarding our future performance that represents our management's estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which consists of forward-looking statements, is prepared by our management and is qualified by, and subject to, the assumptions and the other information contained or referred to in the release. Our guidance is not prepared with a view toward compliance with the published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our independent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the guidance and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto.Guidance is based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. We generally state 21Table of Contentspossible outcomes as high and low ranges which are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed but are not intended to represent our actual results which could fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we release this data is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. Notwithstanding this, we do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such outside analysts or investors.Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions or the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results may vary from the guidance and the variations may be material. Investors should also recognize that the reliability of any forecasted financial data diminishes the farther in the future that the data is forecast. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged to put the guidance in context and not to place undue reliance on it.Any inability to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances discussed therein could result in the actual operating results being different than the guidance, and such differences may be materially adverse.Risks Related to Our BusinessWe provide services to customers over access lines, and since we have been losing access lines, if our efforts to mitigate this decline and transition to alternative revenue is not successful, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities may be materially adversely affected.We, along with the telecommunications industry in general, have experienced a decline in access lines and network access revenues and will be further unfavorably impacted in the long-term by the FCC's recent CAF/ICC Order on intercarrier compensation. See "—Risks Relating to Our Regulatory Environment" herein for specific risks associated with the impact of regulatory reform. We generate revenue primarily by delivering voice and data services over access lines. During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, we experienced access line equivalent loss of 5.1% and 5.0%. These losses resulted mainly from competition, including competition from bundled offerings by cable companies, the use of alternate technologies, including wireless, as well as challenging economic conditions and the offering of DSL services, which prompts some customers to cancel second line service. We believe that issues with transitioning certain back-office functions from Verizon's integrated systems to our systems and the Chapter 11 Cases have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our ability to retain customers. We expect to continue to experience net access line losses. Our strategy of growing broadband and advanced data services, such as Ethernet, over fiber and copper plant may not be sufficient to offset the revenue impact of continued voice access line loss. Our inability to retain access lines and successfully offset such losses with alternative revenue could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.We provide access services to other communications companies, and if these companies were to find alternative means of providing services, become insolvent or experience substantial financial difficulties, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities may be materially adversely affected.We originate and terminate calls on behalf of long distance carriers and other interexchange carriers over our network in exchange for payment of switched access charges. We provide dedicated connections between end users and interexchange carriers for the provision of special access service. Switched and special access services are included in access revenues, among other services, of which access revenues represented approximately 34.5% of our total revenues in 2012. Terminating switched access rates are scheduled to decline under the FCC's recent CAF/ICC Order. See "—Risks Relating to Our Regulatory Environment" herein for specific risks associated with the impact of regulatory reform. We may not be successful in offsetting these declines through regulatory replacement mechanisms or operational means. Further, should one or more of these carriers find alternative means of providing services, loss of revenues from these carriers could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities. In addition, should one or more of the carriers that we do business with become insolvent or experience substantial financial difficulties, our inability to timely collect access charges from them could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.22Table of ContentsWe are subject to competition that may materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities. We face intense competition from a variety of sources for our voice, network transport and Internet services in most of the areas we now serve. Regulations and technology change quickly in the communications industry and changes in these factors historically have had, and in the future may have, a significant impact on competitive dynamics. In most of our service areas, we currently face competition from wireless carriers for voice services and increasingly for Internet services. As technology and economies of scale have improved, competition from wireless carriers has increased and is expected to further increase. We also face increasing competition from wireline and cable television companies for our voice and Internet services. We estimate that most of the customers that we serve have access to voice, network transport and Internet services through a cable television company. Wireline and cable television companies have the ability to bundle their services, which has and is expected to continue to intensify the competition we face from these providers. VoIP providers, Internet service providers and satellite companies also compete with our services and such competition has increased and is expected to continue to increase in the future. In addition, many of our competitors have access to a larger workforce and have substantially greater name-brand recognition and financial, technological and other resources including, in the case of cable television providers, free advertising spots on their video services.In addition, consolidation and strategic alliances within the communications industry and the development of new technologies have had and may continue to have an effect on our competitive position. We cannot predict the number of competitors that will emerge, particularly in light of possible regulatory or legislative actions that could facilitate or impede market entry, but increased competition from existing and new entities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.Competition may lead to loss of revenues and profitability as a result of numerous factors, including:•loss of customers (given the likelihood that when we lose customers for local service, we will also lose them for all related services);•reduced network usage by existing customers who may use alternative providers for voice and data services;•reductions in the service prices that may be necessary to meet competition; and•increases in marketing expenditures and discount and promotional campaigns.We may not be able to successfully integrate new technologies, respond effectively to customer requirements or provide new services.Rapid and significant changes in technology and new service introductions occur frequently in the communications industry and industry standards evolve continually, including but not limited to a transition in the industry from primarily voice products to data services. We cannot predict the effect of these changes on our competitive position, profitability or the industry. Technological developments may reduce the competitiveness of our networks and require unbudgeted upgrades or the procurement of additional products that could be expensive and time consuming. In addition, new products and services arising out of technological developments may reduce the attractiveness of our services. If we fail to adapt successfully to technological changes or obsolescence or fail to obtain access to important new technologies, we could lose customers and be limited in our ability to attract new customers and sell new services to our existing customers, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.The geographic concentration of our operations in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont make our business susceptible to local economic and regulatory conditions and consumer trends, and an economic downturn, recession or unfavorable regulatory action in any of those states may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.Our service territory spans 17 states (after the 2013 sale of our operations in Idaho). As of December 31, 2012, on a pro forma basis after giving effect to the divestiture of our operations in Idaho, we would have had approximately 1.3 million access line equivalents, of which approximately 84.9% are located in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont (including certain of our Telecom Group service companies). As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results will depend significantly upon economic conditions and consumer trends in these markets. From January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012, our operations in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont (including certain of our Telecom Group service companies) experienced a 5.4% decline in total access line equivalents in service, compared to a decline of 3.6% for the remainder of our operations during the same period on a pro forma basis after giving effect to the divestiture of our operations in Idaho. Deterioration in economic conditions in any of these markets could result in a further decrease in demand for our services and resulting loss of access line equivalents which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.23Table of ContentsIn addition, if state regulators in Maine, New Hampshire or Vermont were to take an action that is adverse to our operations in those states, we could suffer greater harm from that action by state regulators than we would from action in other states because of the concentration of our operations in those states.We may need to defend ourselves against claims that we infringe upon others' intellectual property rights or may need to seek third-party licenses to expand our product offerings.From time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits filed by third parties claiming we have infringed or are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. We may receive similar notices or be involved in similar lawsuits in the future. Responding to these claims may require us to expend significant time and money defending our use of affected technology, may require us to enter into licensing agreements requiring license payments that we would not otherwise have to pay or may require us to pay damages. If we are required to take one or more of these actions, our profit margins may decline. In addition, in responding to these claims, we may be required to stop selling or redesign one or more of our products or services, which could significantly and adversely affect the way we conduct business.Similarly, from time to time, we may need to obtain the right to use certain patents or other intellectual property from third parties to be able to offer new products and services. If we cannot license or otherwise obtain rights to use any required technology from a third party on reasonable terms, our ability to offer new products and services may be restricted, made more costly or delayed.We depend on third party providers for certain of our billing functions, IT services, including network support and improvements, and for the provision of our long distance and bandwidth services.We have agreements with outside service providers to perform a portion of our billing functions and for our provision of long distance and bandwidth services. We also rely on certain third parties for IT services, including network support and improvements.If these service providers are unable to adequately perform such services or if one of them experiences a significant degradation or failure with respect to such services, it could result in disruptions in our billing, IT systems and/or our long distance and bandwidth services. Furthermore, if these agreements are terminated for any reason, we may be unable to find an alternative service provider in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, and may be unable ourselves to perform the services they provide.With respect to the agreements governing our long distance and bandwidth services, these agreements are based, in part, on our estimate of future supply and demand and may contain minimum volume commitments. If we overestimate demand, we may be forced to pay for services we do not need. If we underestimate demand, we may need to acquire additional capacity on a short-term basis at unfavorable prices, assuming additional capacity is available. If additional capacity is not available, we will not be able to meet this demand. In addition, if we cannot meet any minimum volume commitments, we may be subject to underutilization charges, termination charges or rate increases.If any of the foregoing events occurs with respect to our third-party providers, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities could be materially adversely affected.A network disruption could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose customers.To be successful, we will need to continue to provide our customers reliable and uninterrupted service over our expanded network. Some of the risks to our network and infrastructure include:•physical damage to our transmission network including poles, cable and access lines;•widespread power surges or outages;•software defects in critical systems;•disruptions beyond our control; and•capacity limitations resulting from changes in our customers' usage patterns.From time to time, in the ordinary course of business, we have experienced and in the future may experience short disruptions in our service due to factors such as cable damage, inclement weather and service failures of our third-party service providers. We could experience more significant disruptions in the future. In addition, certain portions of our network may lack adequate redundancy to allow for expedient recovery of service to affected customers. Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and incur expenses, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.24Table of ContentsAny failure or inadequacy of our IT infrastructure could harm our business.A major failure or inadequacy of our IT infrastructure could harm our business. The capacity, reliability and security of our internal IT hardware and software infrastructure are important to the operation of our current and future business, which would suffer in the event of major system failures. Our inability to expand or upgrade our IT hardware and software infrastructure could have adverse consequences, which could include the delayed implementation of new service offerings, increased acquisition integration costs, service or billing interruptions, and service quality credits and the diversion of development resources.A cyber-attack that bypasses our IT and/or network security systems causing an IT and/or network security breach may lead to unauthorized use or disabling of our network, theft of customer data, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information and could harm our competitive position or otherwise adversely affect our business.Attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to organizations' IT systems or network elements are becoming more sophisticated and are sometimes successful. These attempts include covertly introducing malware to companies' computers and networks, impersonating authorized users, or "hacking" into systems. We seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but, in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effect. Significant network security failures could result in the theft, loss, damage, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information; the theft, loss, damage, unauthorized use or publication of our customers' personally identifiable information, intellectual property and/or confidential business information; the unauthorized use or disabling of our network elements; or damage to our reputation among customers and the public. These consequences could harm our competitive position, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, expose us to litigation, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. To the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers' or licensees' confidential information, we may incur liability as a result, which could be significant.Natural catastrophes or terrorism may damage our network or adversely affect the financial markets. A major earthquake, hurricane, tornado, flood, fire, terrorist attack, cyber-attack or other similar disruption could damage our network, network operations centers, call centers, data centers, central offices, corporate headquarters or other facilities. Such an event could interrupt our services, adversely affect service quality, overwhelm customer support and ultimately harm our business and reputation. Although we have implemented measures that are designed to mitigate the effects of such events, we cannot predict all of the potential impacts of such events. We maintain insurance coverage for some of these events; however, the potential liabilities associated with these events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain. Our inability to operate our networks or operate key systems as a result of such events, even for a limited period of time, may result in significant expenses or loss of customers and associated revenue.Even if the major event does not directly impact us, these events could more broadly cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and world financial markets and economy, which would adversely affect our business.Because our post-emergence consolidated financial statements reflect fresh start accounting adjustments made upon emergence from bankruptcy and because of the effects of the transactions that became effective pursuant to the Plan, financial information in our post-emergence financial statements is not comparable to our financial information from prior periods, including certain statements contained herein.Upon our emergence from the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings, we adopted fresh start accounting in accordance with guidance under the applicable reorganization accounting rules, pursuant to which our reorganization value was allocated to our assets in conformity with guidance under the applicable accounting rules for business combinations, using the purchase method of accounting for business combinations. In addition to fresh start accounting, our consolidated financial statements reflect all effects of the transactions contemplated by the Plan. Therefore, our consolidated statements of financial position and consolidated statements of operations subsequent to the Effective Date are not comparable in many respects to our consolidated statements of financial position and consolidated statements of operations for periods prior to the Effective Date.In addition, as the Chapter 11 Cases remained open, our consolidated balance sheet upon our emergence from Chapter 11 included accruals for unresolved claims related to the Chapter 11 Cases. These accruals were based on management's best estimate of future settlements of such unresolved claims and are subject to adjustment subsequent to the Effective Date. To the extent that our negotiations result in favorable or unfavorable settlements in relation to the amount accrued, we recognize gains and/or losses in our consolidated statement of operations subsequent to the Effective Date.25Table of ContentsOur success will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel.Our success depends upon the talents and efforts of our senior management team. The loss of any member of our senior management team, due to retirement or otherwise, and the inability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and management personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.Our ability to successfully manage reductions in our workforce could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.Reductions in our workforce could adversely impact our ability to operate effectively and, therefore, could adversely impact our customer service, result in higher regulatory penalties and/or reduce our ability to achieve our operational goals. A significant portion of our workforce is represented by labor unions and therefore subject to collective bargaining agreements. If disputes arise, or if we are unable to successfully renegotiate these agreements at an appropriate time or on terms acceptable to us, workers subject to these agreements could engage in strikes or other work stoppages or slowdowns, which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.As of December 31, 2012, 2,161 of our 3,369 employees were covered by 15 collective bargaining agreements. Our agreements with the IBEW and the CWA in northern New England cover approximately 1,900 employees in the aggregate and expire in August 2014. Disputes with regard to the terms of any of these agreements or our potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions in the future as our current contracts expire could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. If unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities. Additionally, future renegotiation of labor agreements or the provisions of such labor agreements could adversely impact our service reliability and significantly increase our costs for healthcare, wages and other benefits, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.We will be exposed to risks relating to evaluations of internal control systems required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, including accelerated reporting requirements and expanded disclosures regarding evaluations of internal control systems. With respect to internal control over financial reporting, standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board define a material weakness as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. If our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting in the future in accordance with the annual assessments and quarterly evaluations required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective which could result in sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. In addition, any such material weakness could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, prevent us from providing timely financial statements or meeting our reporting requirements both with the SEC and under our debt obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information.Our required qualified pension contributions and estimated future qualified pension and post-retirement healthcare plan liabilities may be impacted by several factors and a significant increase in our required contributions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.We sponsor qualified pension and post-retirement medical and dental plans for certain employees which require significant amounts of cash to maintain. The accrual of future benefits by employees and retirees in these qualified pension and post-retirement healthcare plans that are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement have been frozen. However, under the terms of our qualified pension and post-retirement healthcare plans for participants and retirees covered by a collective bargaining agreement, contractual increases in benefits will continue each year through 2014, at which time the collective bargaining agreements will terminate and be renegotiated. See "—Risks Related to Our Business—A significant portion of our workforce is represented by labor unions and therefore subject to collective bargaining agreements. If disputes arise, or if we are unable to successfully renegotiate these agreements at an appropriate time or on terms acceptable to us, workers subject to these agreements could engage in strikes or other work stoppages or slowdowns, which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities" herein for more information. Future increases 26Table of Contentsin benefits earned by participants and retirees in these plans may require increasing amounts of cash to maintain and may limit our operational flexibility. These future cash requirements could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.During 2012, as a condition of our collective bargaining agreements, qualified pension plan participants covered by a collective bargaining agreement did not have the option to elect a lump sum payment if they voluntarily terminated their employment with us. Beginning January 1, 2013, this restriction is no longer in effect and retirees again have the ability to elect to receive a portion of their accrued vested benefit in the form of a lump sum payment. In addition, the discount rates used to calculate lump sum payments are currently lower than the discount rate used to calculate the actuarial liabilities of the plan. As a result, the value of a lump sum payment is more than the respective actuarial liability, which creates an actuarial loss. As such, a lump sum payment depletes the plan's assets more than the corresponding reduction in the plan's liability, which reduces the funded status of the plan. If more participants covered by a collective bargaining agreement retire after January 1, 2013 than expected and elect to receive a portion of their accrued vested benefit in the form of a lump sum payment, which is beyond our control, we could experience a significant reduction in the funded status of our qualified pension plan covering these participants. If the funded status of our qualified pension plans decrease below certain percentage thresholds as defined in ERISA, then certain restrictions and other requirements would be placed on us and the participants in the respective plans which would significantly increase the cost of these plans. Accordingly, to maintain the funded status above these percentage thresholds may require us to make significantly higher contributions to these plans in the future. The extent of such increases in our contributions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.Our qualified pension plans are subject to funding requirements as defined under ERISA. These required pension contributions may be impacted by several factors, including fluctuations in the discount rate used to calculate the funding target, the performance of our pension asset portfolio, the number of retirees who elect to receive lump sum distributions and the demographics of plan participants. Fluctuations or adverse changes in any of these factors are beyond our control and may diminish the funded status of our pension plans thereby significantly increasing the contributions we are required to make under ERISA. For example, economic factors have led to a significant decrease in the discount rate for our pension plans and certain workforce reductions resulted in a large amount of lump-sum payments being made to participants in 2011 and in 2012. These factors will increase our future contributions to the pension plans. The extent of such increases in our required contributions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.During the year ended December 31, 2012, we experienced actual returns on qualified pension plan assets totaling approximately 9.7%. The actuarially-determined funded status of our pension plans is dependent on the market value of the assets held by each plan. As such, a significant decline in the market value of the pension plans' assets could result in us having to make additional contributions to these plans. Furthermore, if the third party trustee who holds these plan assets were to become insolvent, access to the plan assets could be limited for a period of time and we could be required to pay lump sum payments and benefits from our assets. Such required contributions and other payments could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.During 2012, certain legislative actions reduced the required pension contributions for the 2013 plan year. This reduced funding level could materially increase future funding requirements. There are no assurances any additional legislation will be passed that provides future relief for pension contributions. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Pension Contributions and Post-Retirement Healthcare Plan Expenditures" included elsewhere in this Annual Report.Our long-lived assets and non-amortizable intangible asset may become impaired in the future.Our long-lived assets, including our property, plant and equipment and amortizable intangible assets must be reviewed for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Our non-amortizable intangible asset is required to be reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently whenever indicators of impairment exist. Indicators of impairment could include, but are not limited to:•an inability to perform at levels that were forecasted;•a permanent decline in market capitalization;•implementation of restructuring plans;•changes in industry trends; and/or•unfavorable changes in our capital structure, cost of debt, interest rates or capital expenditures levels.Situations such as these could result in an impairment that would require a material non-cash charge to our results of operations and could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.27Table of ContentsOur operations require substantial capital expenditures.We require significant capital expenditures to maintain, upgrade and enhance our network facilities and operations. While we have historically been able to fund capital expenditures from cash generated from operations and borrowings under our revolving facility, the other risk factors described in this section could materially reduce cash available from operations or significantly increase our capital expenditure requirements, and these outcomes may result in our inability to fund the necessary level of capital expenditures to maintain, upgrade or enhance our network. This could adversely affect our business.Risks Relating to Our Regulatory EnvironmentWe are subject to significant regulations that could change in a manner adverse to us. We operate in a heavily regulated industry. Laws and regulations applicable to us and our competitors may be, and have been, challenged in the courts and could be changed by Congress or regulators. In addition, the following factors could have a significant impact on us:Risk of loss or reduction of network access charge revenues. A portion of our revenues comes from intrastate and interstate network access charges, which are paid to us by interexchange carriers for originating and terminating telecommunications traffic. In 2012, our revenues also included CAF funding, which is a transitional form of USF support payments associated with the FCC high-cost programs, as more fully described in "Item 1. Business—Regulatory Environment—Overview of FCC Order to Reform Universal Service and Intercarrier Compensation" included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Further, several of the carriers that provide long-distance services have declared bankruptcy in the past. Future declarations of bankruptcy by a carrier that utilizes our access services could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.On November 18, 2011, the FCC released the CAF/ICC Order. In this order, the FCC replaced all existing USF funding for price cap carriers with CAF funding. The amount of CAF funding that will be available to us has not been determined nor have the specific obligations that would be associated with such funding. We risk significant reductions in the amount of CAF funding that will be made available to us compared to our current CAF Phase I frozen support. The specific obligations that will be associated with future CAF funding have not been determined and we risk not being able to accept CAF funding if the obligations exceed the funding. The CAF/ICC Order fundamentally reforms the ICC system that governs how communications companies bill one another for terminating traffic, gradually phasing out these charges. Additional reforms have been proposed. The reforms adopted by the FCC in its order will significantly change the access charge system and, if not offset by a revenue replacement mechanism, could potentially result in a significant decrease in or elimination of access charges. Regulatory developments of this type could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.Risk of re-regulation of wholesale network services provided to retail and wholesale customers. Pursuant to forbearance from the regulation of high-speed interstate services that was deemed granted to Verizon in 2006 and transferred to FairPoint by the FCC in its order approving the Merger, we offer high-speed interstate services on a deregulated basis. The FCC has initiated a proceeding to investigate potential changes to the regulation of special access services. Several parties filed petitions in 2011 and 2012 asking the FCC to reverse the 2006 forbearance granted to Verizon. It is not clear what actions, if any, the FCC will take in these proceedings. Orders resulting from these proceedings could adversely affect pricing and regulation of these services.The FCC also is considering changes to its rules governing who contributes to the USF support mechanisms and on what basis. Any changes in the FCC's rules governing the manner in which entities contribute to the USF could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.Risk of loss of statutory exemption from burdensome interconnection rules imposed on ILECs. Our rural LECs generally are exempt from the more burdensome requirements of the 1996 Act governing the rights of competitors to interconnect to ILEC networks and to utilize discrete network elements of the incumbent's network at favorable rates. To the extent state regulators decide that it is in the public interest to extend some or all of these requirements to our rural LECs, we may be required to provide UNEs to competitors in our rural telephone company areas. As a result, more competitors could enter our traditional telephone markets than are currently expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.Risks posed by costs of regulatory compliance. Regulations create significant compliance and administrative costs for us. Our subsidiaries that provide intrastate services are generally subject to certification, tariff filing and other ongoing regulatory requirements by state regulators. Our interstate and intrastate access services are currently provided in accordance with tariffs filed with the FCC and state regulatory authorities, respectively. Challenges in the future to our tariffs by regulators or third parties or delays in obtaining certifications and regulatory approvals could cause us to incur substantial legal and administrative expenses, 28Table of Contentsand, if successful, these challenges could adversely affect the rates that we are able to charge our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.In addition, our non-rural operations are subject to regulations not applicable to our rural operations, including but not limited to, requirements relating to interconnection, the provision of UNEs, and the other market-opening obligations set forth in the 1996 Act. In approving the transfer of authorizations to us in the Merger, the FCC determined that our non-rural operations would be subject to the same regulatory requirements that currently apply to Bell Operating Companies. The FCC also stated that we would be entitled to the same regulatory relief that Verizon New England had obtained in the region. Any changes made in connection with these obligations could increase our non-rural operations' costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities. Moreover, we cannot predict the precise manner in which the FCC will apply the Bell Operating Company regulatory framework to us.Our business also may be affected by legislation and regulation imposing new or greater obligations related to open Internet access, assisting law enforcement, bolstering homeland security, pole attachments, minimizing environmental impacts, protecting customer privacy or addressing other issues that affect our business. We cannot predict whether or to what extent the FCC might modify its rules or what compliance with those new rules might cost. Similarly, we cannot predict whether or to what extent federal or state legislators or regulators might impose new network access, security, environmental or other obligations on our business.Risk of losses from rate reduction. Our LECs that operate pursuant to intrastate rate-of-return regulation are subject to state regulatory authority over intrastate telecommunications service rates. State review of these rates could lead to rate reductions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our outstanding securities.For a more thorough discussion of the regulatory issues that may affect our business, see "Item 1. Business—Regulatory Environment" included elsewhere in this Annual Report.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNot applicable.