Item 1A. Risk Factors Before you invest in shares of our securities, you should be aware of various risks, including the risks described below. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The risks and uncertainties described below or elsewhere in this report are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business and operations. If any of the matters included in the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. In such case, you could lose all or part of your investment. We may not be able to reverse our history of losses. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $83.3 million. We incurred a net loss of $5.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. We will need to increase our revenues and control expenses to avoid continued losses. In addition, our history of losses may cause some of our potential customers to question our viability, which might hamper our ability to make sales. 9 Table of Contents We may need additional capital to fund continued business operations and we cannot be sure that additional financing will be available when and if needed. Although we presently have adequate cash resources for our near term needs, our ability to continue as a business in our present form will ultimately depend on our ability to generate sufficient revenues or to obtain additional debt or equity financing. From time to time, we consider and discuss various financing alternatives and expect to continue such efforts to raise additional funds to support our operational plan as needed. However, we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. If we are not able to obtain capital when needed, we may need to dramatically change our business strategy and direction, including pursuing options to sell or merge our business. In the past, we have funded our operating losses and capital expenditures through proceeds from equity offerings and debt. Changes in equity markets within the past several years have adversely affected our ability to raise equity financing and have adversely affected the markets for debt financing for companies with a history of losses such as ours. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the rights of our common stock and, in light of our current market capitalization, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. Further, the issuance of debt securities could increase the risk or perceived risk of our company. If we are not able to obtain necessary capital, we may need to dramatically change our business strategy and direction, including pursuing options to sell or merge our business. Our cash flow may not be sufficient to permit repayment of our debt when due. As of December 31, 2005, we had $3.6 million of outstanding debt through a line of credit with Silicon Valley Bank. We may need to, in the future, raise additional money through bank financing or debt instruments. Our ability to retire or to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash flow in the future. Our cash flow from operations may be insufficient to repay this indebtedness at scheduled maturity. If we are unable to repay or refinance our debt when due, we could be forced to dispose of assets under circumstances that might not be favorable to realizing the highest price for the assets or to default on our obligations with respect to this indebtedness. We may not succeed in attracting and retaining the personnel we need for our business. Our business requires the employment of highly skilled personnel, especially experienced software developers. The inability to recruit and retain experienced software developers in the future could result in delays in developing new versions of our software products or could result in the release of deficient software products. Any such delays or defective products would likely result in lower sales. We may also experience difficulty in hiring and retaining sales personnel, product managers and professional services employees. A significant percentage of our product development is performed by a third party internationally, the loss of which could substantially impair our product development efforts. A significant percentage of our product development work, and some of our implementation services, is performed by a third-party development organization located in Minsk, Belarus. Unpredictable developments in the political, economic and social conditions in Belarus, or our failure to maintain or renew our business relationship with this organization on terms similar to those which exist currently, could reduce or eliminate product development and implementation services. If access to these services were to be unexpectedly eliminated or significantly reduced, our ability to meet development objectives vital to our ongoing strategy would be hindered or we may be required to incur significant costs to find suitable replacements, and our business could be seriously harmed. 10 Table of Contents It is difficult to draw conclusions about our future performance based on our past performance due to significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. We manage our expense levels based on our expectations regarding future revenues and our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. Therefore, if revenue levels are below expectations in a particular quarter, operating results and net income are likely to be disproportionately adversely affected because our expenses are relatively fixed. In addition, a significant percentage of our revenues is typically derived from large orders from a limited number of customers, so it is difficult to estimate accurately the timing of future revenues. Our revenues are unpredictable and in our last eight quarters have fluctuated up and down between a low of $1.8 million in first quarter 2004 and a high of $6.8 million in fourth quarter 2005. Our historical results for periods prior to February 2005 may not be indicative of future performance as a result of the significant changes to our business from the merger with Kanisa. Our quarterly results are also impacted by our revenue recognition policies. Because we generally recognize license revenues upon installation, sales orders from new customers in a quarter might not be recognized during that quarter. Delays in the implementation and installation of our software near the end of a quarter could also cause recognized quarterly revenues and, to a greater degree, results of operations to fall substantially short of anticipated levels. We often recognize revenues for existing customers in a shorter time frame because installation can generally be completed in significantly less time than for new customers. However, we may not be able to recognize expected revenues at the end of a quarter due to delays in the receipt of expected orders from existing customers. Revenues in any given quarter are not indicative of revenues in any future period because of these and other factors and, accordingly, we believe that certain period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. The markets for knowledge management and service resolution management are evolving and, if they do not grow rapidly, our business will be adversely affected. The markets for knowledge management and service resolution management solutions are emerging industries, and it is difficult to predict how large or how quickly they will grow, if at all. Customer service historically has been provided primarily in person or over the telephone with limited reference materials available for the customer service representative. Our business model assumes that companies which provide customer service over the telephone will find value in aggregating institutional knowledge by using our software and will be willing to access our content over the Internet. Our business model also assumes that companies will find value in providing some of their customer service over the Internet rather than by telephone. Our success will depend on the broad commercial acceptance of, and demand for, these knowledge management and service resolution management solutions. We currently have one core product family. If the demand for this line of products declines, our business will be adversely affected. Our knowledge powered service resolution management application, Knova Application Suite, includes our Knova Contact Center, Knova Self-Service, Knova Forums, and Knova Knowledge Desk software products. Our past and expected future revenues consist primarily of license fees for these software solutions and fees for related services. Factors adversely affecting the demand for these products and our products in general, such as competition, pricing or technological change, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and the value of our stock price. Our future financial performance will substantially depend on our ability to sell current versions of our entire suite of products and our ability to develop and sell enhanced versions of our products. 11 Table of Contents Due to the lengthy sales cycles of our products and services, the timing of our sales is difficult to predict and may cause us to miss our revenue expectations. Our products and services are typically intended for use in applications that may be critical to a customer’s business. In certain instances, the purchase of our products and services involves a significant commitment of resources by prospective customers. As a result, our sales process is often subject to delays associated with lengthy approval processes that accompany the commitment of significant resources. For these and other reasons, the sales cycle associated with the licensing of our products and subscription for our services averages six months and is subject to a number of significant delays over which we have little or no control. While our customers are evaluating whether our products and services suit their needs, we may incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort. We may not realize forecasted revenues from a specific customer in the quarter in which we expend these significant resources, or at all, because of the lengthy sales cycle for our products and services. We may not be able to expand our business internationally, and, if we do, we face risks relating to international operations. Our business strategy includes efforts to attract more international customers. By doing business in international markets we face risks, such as unexpected changes in tariffs and other trade barriers, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, political instability, reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries, seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world, and potentially adverse tax consequences, any of which could adversely impact our international operations. If we are not able to keep pace with rapid technological change, sales of our products may decrease. The software industry is characterized by rapid technological change, including changes in customer requirements, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards. If we fail to keep pace with the technological progress of our competitors, sales of our products may decrease. We depend on technology licensed to us by third parties, and the loss of this technology could delay implementation of our products, injure our reputation or force us to pay higher royalties. We rely, in part, on technology that we license from a small number of software providers for use with our products. After the expiration of these licenses, this technology may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and may be difficult to replace. The loss of any of these technology licenses could result in delays in introducing or maintaining our products until equivalent technology, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated. In addition, any defects in the technology we may license in the future could prevent the implementation or impair the functionality of our products, delay new product introductions or injure our reputation. If we are required to enter into license agreements with third parties for replacement technology, we could be subject to higher royalty payments. Problems arising from the use of our products with other vendors’ products could cause us to incur significant costs, divert attention from our product development efforts and cause customer relations problems. Our customers generally use our products together with products from other companies. As a result, when problems occur in a customer’s systems, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our products do not cause these problems, they may cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems. 12 Table of Contents If third parties cease to provide open program interfaces for their customer relationship management software, it will be difficult to integrate our software with theirs. This may decrease the attractiveness of our products. Our ability to compete successfully also depends on the continued compatibility and interoperability of our products with products and systems sold by various third parties, specifically including CRM software sold by Siebel Systems, Amdocs, Peoplesoft/ Oracle, SAP, Remedy, Hewlett Packard, and Peregrine. Currently, these vendors have open applications program interfaces, which facilitate our ability to integrate with their systems. If any one of them should close their programs’ interface or if they should acquire one of our competitors, our ability to provide a close integration of our products could become more difficult, or impossible, and could delay or prevent our products’ integration with future systems. Inadequate integration with other vendors’ products could make our products less desirable and could lead to lower sales. We face intense competition from both established and recently formed entities, and this competition may adversely affect our revenues and profitability because we compete in the emerging markets for knowledge management and service resolution management solutions. We compete in the emerging markets for knowledge management and service resolution management solutions and changes in these markets could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We face competition from many firms offering a variety of products and services. In the future, because there are relatively low barriers to entry in the software industry, we expect to experience additional competition from new entrants into the knowledge management and service resolution management solutions market. It is also possible that alliances or mergers may occur among our competitors and that these newly consolidated companies could rapidly acquire significant market share. Greater competition may result in price erosion for our products and services, which may significantly affect our future operating margins. If our software products contain errors or failures, sales of these products could decrease. Software products frequently contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. In the past, we have released products that contained defects, including software errors in certain new versions of existing products and in new products after their introduction. In the event that the information contained in our products is inaccurate or perceived to be incomplete or out-of-date, our customers could purchase our competitors’ products or decide they do not need knowledge management or service resolution management solutions at all. In either case, our sales would decrease. Our products are typically intended for use in applications that may be critical to a customer’s business. As a result, we believe that our customers and potential customers have a great sensitivity to product defects. We could incur substantial costs as a result of product liability claims because our products are critical to the operations of our customers’ businesses. Our products may be critical to the operations of our customers’ businesses. Any defects or alleged defects in our products entail the risk of product liability claims for substantial damages, regardless of our responsibility for the failure. Although our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, these provisions may not be effective under the laws of some jurisdictions. In addition, product liability claims, even if unsuccessful, may be costly and divert management’s attention from our operations. Software defects and product liability claims may result in a loss of future revenue, a delay in market acceptance, the diversion of development resources, damage to our reputation or increased service and warranty costs. We have not had any product liability claims in the past. If our customers’ system security is breached and confidential information is stolen, our business and reputation could suffer. Users of our products transmit their and their customers’ confidential information, such as names, addresses, social security numbers and credit card information, over the Internet. In our license agreements with our customers, we typically disclaim responsibility for the security of confidential data and have 13 Table of Contents contractual indemnities for any damages claimed against us. However, if unauthorized third parties are successful in illegally obtaining confidential information from users of our products, our reputation and business may be damaged, and if our contractual disclaimers and indemnities are not enforceable, we may be subject to liability. We may acquire or make investments in companies or technologies that could hurt our business. In the future, we may pursue mergers or acquisitions to obtain complementary businesses, products, services or technologies. Entering into a merger or acquisition entails many risks, any of which could adversely affect our business, including, but not limited to: • failure to integrate the acquired assets and/or companies with our current business; • the price we pay may exceed the value we eventually realize; • potential loss of share value to our existing stockholders as a result of issuing equity securities as part or all of the purchase price; • potential loss of key employees from either our current business or the acquired business; • entering into markets in which we have little or no prior experience; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • assumption of unanticipated liabilities related to the acquired assets; and • the business or technologies we acquire or in which we invest may have limited operating histories and may be subject to many of the same risks we are. Any of these outcomes could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of any additional acquisitions. To pay for an acquisition, we might use stock or cash or, alternatively, borrow money from a bank or other lender. If we use our stock, our stockholders would experience dilution of their ownership interests. If we use cash or debt financing, our financial liquidity would be reduced. We may be required to capitalize a significant amount of intangibles, including goodwill, which may lead to significant amortization charges. In addition, we may incur significant, one-time write offs and amortization charges. These amortization charges and write offs could decrease our future earnings or increase our future losses. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which may cause us to incur significant costs in litigation and an erosion in the value of our brands and products. Our business is dependent on proprietary technology and the value of our brands. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws to protect our technology and brands. Our patents may not survive a legal challenge to their validity or provide meaningful protection to us. Litigation to protect our patents could be expensive and the loss of our patents would decrease the value of our products. Defending against claims of patent infringement would also be expensive and, if we are unsuccessful, we could be forced to redesign our products, pay royalties, or cease selling them. In addition, effective trademark protection may not be available for our trademarks. The use by other parties of our trademarks would dilute the value of our brands. Notwithstanding the precautions we have taken, a third party may copy or otherwise obtain and use our software or other proprietary information without authorization or may develop similar software independently. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, particularly because the global nature of the Internet makes it difficult to control the ultimate destination or security of software or other transmitted data. Further, we have granted certain third parties limited contractual rights to use proprietary information, which they may improperly use or disclose. The laws of other countries may afford us little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. The steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of our technology, and the agreements entered into for that purpose may not be enforceable. The unauthorized use of our proprietary technologies could also decrease the value of our products. 14 Table of Contents We may initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents. Lawsuits may be expensive and, depending on the verdict, we may lose some, if not all, of our intellectual property rights, and this may impair our ability to compete in the market. We believe that some companies, including direct and indirect competitors, may be infringing upon our patents. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation suits against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. Lawsuits that we may file are likely to be expensive, may take significant time and could divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Litigation also places our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly. Lawsuits may also provoke these third parties to assert claims against us. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving and, consequently, patent positions in our industry are generally uncertain. We may not prevail in any suits we may bring, the damages or other remedies that may be awarded to us may not be commercially valuable and we could be held liable for damages as a result of counterclaims. The success of our software products depends on its adoption by our customers’ employees. If these employees do not accept the implementation of our products, our customers may fail to renew their service contracts and we may have difficulty attracting new customers. The effectiveness of our products depends in part on widespread adoption and use of our software by our customers’ customer service personnel and on the quality of the solutions they generate. Resistance to our software by customer service personnel and an inadequate development and maintenance of the system’s knowledge resources, business rule, and other configurations may make it more difficult to attract new customers and retain old ones. Some of our customers have found that customer service personnel productivity initially drops while customer service personnel become accustomed to using our software. If an enterprise deploying our software has not adequately planned for and communicated its expectations regarding that initial productivity decline, customer service personnel may resist adoption of our software. We depend on increased business from our new customers and, if we fail to grow our client base or generate repeat business, our operating results could be adversely affected. Some of our customers initially make a limited purchase of our products and services for pilot programs. If these customers do not successfully develop and deploy such initial applications, they may choose not to purchase complete deployment or development licenses. Some of our customers who have made initial purchases of our software have deferred or suspended implementation of our products due to slower than expected rates of internal adoption by customer service personnel. If more customers decide to defer or suspend implementation of our products in the future, we will be unable to increase our revenue from these customers from additional licenses or maintenance agreements, and our financial position will be seriously harmed. In addition, as we introduce new versions of our products or new products, our current customers may not need our new products and may not ultimately license these products. Any downturn in our software licenses revenues would negatively impact our future service revenues because the total amount of maintenance and service fees we receive in any period depends in large part on the size and number of licenses that we have previously sold. In addition, if customers elect not to renew their maintenance agreements, our service revenues could be significantly adversely affected. A decline in information technology spending could reduce the sale of our products. The license fees for our products often represent a significant expenditure of information technology (“IT”) capital for our customers. Any slowdown in the national or global economy or increased uncertainty resulting from acts of terrorism or war could cause existing and potential customers to reduce or reassess their planned IT expenditures. Such reductions in or eliminations of IT spending could cause us to be unable to 15 Table of Contents maintain or increase our sales volumes, and therefore, have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, ability to generate positive cash flow and stock price. Increasing government regulation of the Internet could harm our business. As knowledge management, service resolution management, and the Internet continue to evolve, we expect that federal, state and foreign governments will adopt laws and regulations tailored to the Internet addressing issues like user privacy, taxation of goods and services provided over the Internet, pricing, content and quality of products and services. If enacted, these laws and regulations could limit the market for knowledge management and service resolution management services and, therefore, the market for our products and services. Additionally, Internet security issues could deter customers from using the Internet for certain transactions or from implementing customer support websites. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 prohibits certain types of information and content from being transmitted over the Internet. The prohibition’s scope and the liability associated with a violation of the Telecommunications Act’s information and content provisions are currently unsettled. The imposition of potential liability upon us and other software and service providers for information carried on or disseminated through our applications could require us to implement measures to reduce our exposure to this liability. These measures could require us to expend substantial resources or discontinue certain services. In addition, although substantial portions of the Communications Decency Act, the act through which the Telecommunications Act of 1996 imposes criminal penalties, were held to be unconstitutional, similar legislation may be enacted and upheld in the future. It is possible that new legislation and the Communications Decency Act could expose companies involved in Internet liability, which could limit the growth of Internet usage and, therefore, the demand for knowledge management and service resolution management solutions. In addition, similar or more restrictive laws in other countries could have a similar effect and hamper our plans to expand overseas. We may become involved in securities class action litigation, which could divert management’s attention and harm our business. In recent years, the common stocks of technology companies have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in that type of litigation in the future. Litigation is often expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business and operating results. Our stock price may be adversely affected since our stock is not listed on an exchange or The Nasdaq Stock Market. As our stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, investors may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of the securities. In addition, we are subject to a rule promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission that, if we fail to meet criteria set forth in such rule, various practice requirements are imposed on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transactions prior to purchase. Consequently, the rule may deter broker-dealers from recommending or purchasing our common stock, which may further affect the liquidity of our common stock. Our failure to be listed on an exchange or Nasdaq makes trading our shares more difficult for investors. It may also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. Further, we may also incur additional costs under state blue sky laws in connection with any sales of our securities. 16 Table of Contents Shares available for future sale could adversely affect our stock price. Future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect trading prices of our common stock from time to time. As of the time of this filing, 8,744,116 shares of our common stock are outstanding. Virtually all of the shares outstanding prior to the Kanisa merger (approximately 5,252,245 shares) are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act, except for any shares which are owned by an affiliate of ours as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The shares of our common stock issued in the merger with Kanisa and the shares of our common stock owned by our affiliates are restricted securities, as that term is defined in Rule 144, and are eligible to be sold under the Securities Act to the extent permitted by Rule 144 or any applicable exemption under the Securities Act. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our business depends upon the efforts of our chief executive officer, Bruce Armstrong, and a small number of management and operating personnel. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on Mr. Armstrong or our other executive officers. We may have difficulty replacing management or other key personnel who leave and, therefore, the loss of the services of any of these individuals could harm our business. Our management owns a significant percentage of our company and will be able to exercise significant influence over our actions. Our officers and directors and related entities, who in the aggregate directly or indirectly control more than 50% of our outstanding common stock and voting power, control us. These stockholders collectively will likely be able to control our management policy, decide all fundamental corporate actions, including mergers, substantial acquisitions and dispositions, and elect our board of directors. Voting agreements in place assure election of our current directors for 2006. Certain of our stockholders owning more than 50% of our voting stock have entered into voting agreements to vote in favor of the current board members up for election in 2006. This could negatively affect the ability of any third party to gain control of our company. Terrorist attacks and other attacks or acts of war may adversely affect the markets on which our common stock trades, our financial condition and our results of operations. Acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere could cause instability in the United States and other financial markets. Armed hostilities or further acts of terrorism could cause further instability in financial markets and could directly impact our financial condition and our results of operations. The regulatory environment surrounding accounting and corporate governance subjects us to certain legal uncertainties in the operation of our business and may increase the cost of doing business. We will face increased regulatory scrutiny associated with the highly publicized financial scandals and the various accounting and corporate governance rules promulgated under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations. Our management will review and will continue to monitor our accounting policies and practices, legal disclosure and corporate governance policies under the new legislation, including those related to relationships with our independent auditors, enhanced financial disclosures, internal controls, board and board committee practices, corporate responsibility and executive officer loan practices. We intend to fully comply with these laws. Nevertheless, the increased scrutiny and penalties involve risks to both us and our executive officers and directors in monitoring and ensuring compliance. A failure to properly navigate the legal disclosure environment and implement and enforce appropriate policies and procedures, if needed, could harm our business and prospects, including our ability to recruit and retain skilled officers and directors. In addition, we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets. We also may be adversely affected by changes in the 17 Table of Contents interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 