Item 1A. Risk Factors The following industry and market factors could have an adverse effect (which could be material) on our business, results of operations or financial condition in the future: Our business is significantly dependent on sales to GM and DaimlerChrysler. We are the principal supplier of driveline components to GM for its RWD light trucks and SUVs manufactured in North America, supplying substantially all of GM’s rear axle and front 4WD/AWD axle requirements for these vehicle platforms. We sell products to GM under LPCs, which have terms equal to the lives of the relevant vehicle programs or their respective derivatives of typically 6 to 12 years. The LPCs establish pricing for products sold to GM and require us to remain competitive with respect to technology, design and quality. Substantially all of our sales to GM are made pursuant to the LPCs. Sales to GM were approximately 78% of our total sales in 2005, 80% of our total sales in 2004 and 82% in 2003. We will compete for future GM business upon the termination of the LPCs with GM. There can be no assurance that we will remain competitive with respect to technology, design and quality to GM’s reasonable satisfaction. Pricing negotiated with GM in future agreements may be more or less favorable than the LPCs and other currently applicable agreements. If we lose any significant portion of our sales to GM, or if GM significantly reduces its production of light trucks or SUVs, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Disputes arising from any current or future agreements between GM and us could have a material adverse impact on our relations and our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, DaimlerChrysler accounted for approximately 13% of our sales in 2005 and 11% of our total sales in 2004 and 9% in 2003, which represents a significant portion of our non-GM business, and if we lose a significant portion of our sales to DaimlerChrysler it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is dependent on SUV and light truck market segments. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from products for SUV and light truck platforms. Sales and production of SUVs and light trucks could be affected by many factors including current and future fuel prices. Any significant reduction in this market segment could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be adversely affected by future work stoppages at GM or DaimlerChrysler. A substantial number of employees of our largest customers and of their key suppliers are represented by trade unions, including the UAW. Because GM accounts for approximately 78% of our sales, future work stoppages at GM or a key supplier to GM could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, DaimlerChrysler accounts for approximately 13% of our sales and represents a significant portion of our non-GM business. Future work stoppages at DaimlerChrysler or a key supplier to DaimlerChrysler could also adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. A substantial number of our associates are members of industrial trade unions and are employed under the terms of collective bargaining agreements. There can be no assurance that future issues with our labor unions will be resolved favorably or that we will not experience a work stoppage that could adversely affect our business. Significant increases in labor and other costs as a result of renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements could also have an adverse impact. Our business may be adversely affected by an increase in the price of raw materials. Recent worldwide market conditions have resulted in significant increases in steel and other metallic material prices. The prices of raw materials needed for our products may continue to increase, and our inability to pass these price increases on to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 5 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected by disruptions in our supply chain. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain key components and materials in our products, which makes us susceptible to supply shortages or price increases. We rely upon, and expect to continue to rely upon, certain suppliers for critical components and materials that are not readily available in sufficient volume from other sources. There can be no assurance that the suppliers of these materials will be able or willing to meet our future needs on a timely basis. A significant disruption in the supply of these materials could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our company and our customers may not be able to timely or successfully launch new product programs. Our customers are preparing to launch new product programs for which we will supply newly developed axles and other driveline components. Certain of these program launches will require substantial capital investments by us. We may not be able to install and certify the equipment needed to produce products for these new product programs in time for the start of production. There can be no assurance that the transitioning of our manufacturing facilities and resources to full production under these new product programs, or any other future product programs, will not impact production rates or other operational efficiency measures at our facilities. In addition, there is no assurance that our customers will execute the launch of these product programs, or any additional future product program for which we will supply products, on schedule. Our company may not realize all of the revenue expected from our new and incremental business backlog. The realization of additional revenues from awarded business is inherently subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including the number of vehicles our customers actually produce and the timing of that production. It is also possible that our customers may choose to delay or cancel a program for which we have been awarded business. Our revenues, operating results, and financial position could be adversely impacted relative to our current financial plans for future periods if we do not realize substantially all the revenue from new and incremental program awards. Our business is under pressure from our customers to reduce our prices. Annual price reductions are a common practice in the automotive industry. We may not be able to sufficiently reduce our costs in a manner that will allow us to improve or maintain our margins. Our business faces substantial competition. The original equipment manufacturer supply industry is highly competitive. Quality, delivery, price and technological innovation, are the primary elements of competition. Our competitors include driveline component manufacturing facilities of existing original equipment manufacturers, as well as independent domestic and international suppliers. Our business may be adversely affected by increased competition or we may not be able to maintain our profitability if the competitive environment changes. Our company’s domestic and international operations are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties such as currency exchange rate fluctuations, and the political, economic and financial environment in the countries where we do business. In addition, the United States economy may also be adversely affected by political events and domestic and international terrorist events and hostilities. These uncertainties could have an adverse effect on our continuity of business, results of operations and financial condition. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. Our business could be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the automotive industry. Our operations are cyclical because they are directly related to domestic automotive production and are dependent on general economic conditions including interest rates, fuel prices and consumer confidence. A decrease in consumer demand for the models that generate the most sales for us or our failure to obtain sales orders for new or redesigned models could have a material adverse effect on our business. 6 Table of Contents Our company faces rising costs for pension and retiree benefits. We have significant pension and other post-employment benefit (OPEB) obligations to our employees and retirees. Our ability to satisfy these funding requirements will depend on our cash flow from operations and our ability to access the credit and capital markets. The funding requirement of these benefit plans, and the related expense reflected in our financial statements, is affected by several factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Key assumptions used to value these obligations include the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and rates of increase in compensation and health care costs. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims. We are exposed to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our products fail to perform as expected, and we may be required to participate in a recall of such products. Our business is subject to costs associated with environmental and health and safety regulations. Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharge to waters and the generation, handling, storage, transportation treatment and disposal of waste and other materials. We believe that our operations and facilities have been and are being operated in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, many of which provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. The operation of automotive parts manufacturing plants entails risks in these areas, however, and there can be no assurance that we will not incur material costs or liabilities. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with evolving environmental and health and safety laws, regulations or requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Our company’s ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we lose key personnel. Our success will depend, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key associates. In addition, our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. The loss of the services of key associates or the failure to attract or retain associates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Item 