Risk Factors We are exposed to general global economic and market conditions, particularly those impacting the communications industry. We provide software and services primarily to service providers in the communications industry and our business is therefore highly dependent upon conditions in that industry. Developments in the communications industry, such as the impact of global economic conditions, industry consolidation, emergence of new competitors, commoditization of voice, video and data services and changes in the regulatory environment, at times have had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our existing or potential customers. In the past, these conditions reduced the high growth rates that the communications industry had previously experienced and caused the market value, financial results and prospects and capital spending levels of many communications companies to decline or degrade. Industry consolidation involving our customers may place us at risk of losing business to the incumbent provider to one of the parties to the consolidation or to new competitors. During previous economic downturns, the communications industry experienced significant financial pressures that caused many in the industry to cut expenses and limit investment in capital intensive projects and, in some cases, led to restructurings and bankruptcies. Continuing uncertainty as to economic recovery in recent years may have adverse consequences for our customers and our business. Downturns in the business climate for communications companies have in the past resulted in slower customer buying decisions and price pressures that adversely affected our ability to generate revenue. Adverse market conditions may have a negative impact on our business by decreasing our new customer engagements and the size of initial spending commitments under those engagements, as well as decreasing the level of discretionary spending by existing customers. In addition, a slowdown in buying decisions may extend our sales cycle period and may limit our ability to forecast our flow of new contracts. If such adverse business conditions arise in the future, our business may be harmed. If we fail to adapt to changing market conditions and cannot compete successfully with existing or new competitors, our business could be harmed. We may be unable to compete successfully with existing or new competitors. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with established or new competitors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We face intense competition for the software products and services that we sell, including competition for managed services we provide to customers under long-term service agreements. These managed services include management of data center operations and IT infrastructure, application management and ongoing support, systems modernization and consolidation and management of end-to-end business processes for billing and customer care operations. The market for communications information systems is highly competitive and fragmented, and we expect competition to continue to increase. We compete with independent software and service providers and with the in-house IT and network departments of communications companies. Our main competitors include firms that provide IT services (including consulting, systems integration and managed services), software vendors that sell products for particular aspects of a total information system, software vendors that specialize in systems for particular communications services (such as Internet, wireline and wireless services, cable, satellite and service bureaus) and network equipment providers that offer software systems in combination with the sale of network equipment. We also compete with companies that provide digital commerce software and solutions. We believe that our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including: • the development by others of software products and services that are competitive with our products and services, • the price at which others offer competitive software and services, • the ability of competitors to deliver projects at a level of quality that rivals our own, • the responsiveness of our competitors to customer needs, and • the ability of our competitors to hire, retain and motivate key personnel. 6 Table of Contents A number of our competitors have long operating histories, large customer bases, substantial financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, and strong name recognition. Current and potential competitors have established, and may establish in the future, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their abilities to address the needs of our existing or prospective customers. In addition, our competitors have acquired, and may continue to acquire in the future, companies that may enhance their market offerings. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. As a result, our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors. If we fail to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with established or new competitors, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. If we do not continually enhance our products and service offerings and introduce new products and features, we may have difficulty retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. We believe that our future success will depend, to a significant extent, upon our ability to enhance our existing products and services and to introduce new products, services and features to meet the requirements of our customers in a rapidly developing and evolving market. We devote significant resources to refining and expanding our base software modules and to developing our customer experience solutions. Our present or future products and services may not satisfy the evolving needs of the communications industry or of other industries that we serve. If we are unable to anticipate or respond adequately to such needs, due to resource, technological or other constraints, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Our business is dependent on a limited number of significant customers, and the loss of any one of our significant customers could harm our results of operations. Our business is dependent on a limited number of significant customers, of which AT&T has historically been our largest. AT&T accounted for 33% of our revenue in fiscal 2014 and 28% in fiscal 2013. Aggregate revenue derived from the multiple business arrangements we have with the ten largest of our significant customers accounted for approximately 73% of our revenue in fiscal 2014 and 70% in fiscal 2013. The loss of any significant customer, a significant decrease in business from any such customer or a reduction in customer revenue due to adverse changes in the terms of our contractual arrangements or other factors could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Revenue from individual customers may fluctuate from time to time based on the commencement and completion of projects, the timing of which may be affected by market conditions. Although we have received a substantial portion of our revenue from recurring business with established customers, many of our major customers do not have any obligation to purchase additional products or services from us and generally have already acquired fully paid licenses to their installed systems. Therefore, our customers may not continue to purchase new systems, system enhancements or services in amounts similar to previous years or may delay implementation or significantly reduce the scope of committed projects, each of which could reduce our revenue and profits. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop and maintain long-term relationships with our customers and to meet their expectations in providing products and performing services. We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to develop and maintain long-term relationships with successful network operators and service providers with the financial and other resources required to invest in significant ongoing customer experience solutions. If we are unable to develop new customer relationships, our business will be harmed. In addition, our business and results of operations depend in part on our ability to provide high quality services to customers that have already implemented our products. If we are unable to meet customers’ expectations in providing products or performing services, our business and results of operations could be harmed. 7 Table of Contents We may seek to acquire companies or technologies that could disrupt our ongoing business, divert the attention of our management and employees and adversely affect our results of operations. It is a part of our business strategy to pursue acquisitions and other initiatives in order to offer new products or services or otherwise enhance our market position or strategic strengths. In recent years, we have completed numerous acquisitions, which, among other things, have expanded our business into digital commerce solutions and the network control and optimization domains. In the future, we may acquire other companies that we believe will advance our business strategy. We may not be able to identify suitable future acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms or complete otherwise favorable acquisitions because of antitrust or other regulatory concerns. We cannot assure you that the acquisitions we have completed, or any future acquisitions that we may make, will enhance our products and services or strengthen our competitive position. We also cannot assure you that we have identified, or will be able to identify, all material adverse issues related to the integration of our acquisitions, such as significant defects in the internal control policies of companies that we have acquired. In addition, our acquisitions could lead to difficulties in integrating acquired personnel and operations and in retaining and motivating key personnel from these businesses. Any failure to recognize significant defects in the internal control policies of acquired companies or to properly integrate and retain personnel may require a significant amount of time and resources to address. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and harm our results of operations or financial condition. The skilled and highly qualified workforce that we need to develop, implement and modify our solutions may be difficult to hire, train and retain, and we could face increased costs to attract and retain our skilled workforce. Our business operations depend in large part on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled information technology professionals, software programmers and communications engineers on a worldwide basis. In addition, our competitive success will depend on our ability to attract and retain other outstanding, highly qualified employees, consultants and other professionals. Because our software products are highly complex and are generally used by our customers to perform critical business functions, we depend heavily on skilled technology professionals. Skilled technology professionals are often in high demand and short supply. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified technology professionals to develop, implement and modify our solutions, we may be unable to meet the needs of our customers. In addition, serving several new customers or implementing several new large-scale projects in a short period of time may require us to attract and train additional IT professionals at a rapid rate. We may face difficulties identifying and hiring qualified personnel. Although we are heavily investing in training our new employees, we may not be able to train them rapidly enough to meet the increasing demands on our business, particularly in light of high attrition rates in some regions where we have operations. Our inability to hire, train and retain the appropriate personnel could increase our costs of retaining a skilled workforce and make it difficult for us to manage our operations, meet our commitments and compete for new customer contracts. In particular, wage costs in lower-cost markets where we have historically added personnel, such as India, are increasing and we may need to increase the levels of our employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to remain competitive. As a result of our entry into new domains, we now compete for high quality employees in those domains’ limited and competitive talent market. In addition, cost containment measures effected in recent years, such as the relocation of projects to lower-costs countries, may lead to greater employee attrition and increase the cost of retaining our most skilled employees. The transition of projects to new locations may also lead to business disruptions due to differing levels of employee knowledge and organizational and leadership skills. While we have never experienced an organized labor dispute, strike or work stoppage, any such dispute in the future could have a negative impact on our business. Our success will also depend, to a certain extent, upon the continued active participation of a relatively small group of senior management personnel. The loss of the services of all or some of these executives could harm our operations and impair our efforts to expand our business. 8 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, and a decline in revenue in any quarter could result in lower profitability for that quarter and fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares. At times, we have experienced fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and anticipate that such movements may continue to occur. Fluctuations may result from many factors, including: • the size, timing and pace of progress of significant customer projects and license and service fees, • delays in or cancellations of significant projects by customers, • changes in operating expenses, • increased competition, • changes in our strategy, • personnel changes, • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, • penetration of new markets, and • general economic and political conditions. Generally, our combined license fee revenue and service fee revenue relating to customization, modification, implementation and integration are recognized as work is performed, using the percentage of completion method of accounting. Given our reliance on a limited number of significant customers, our quarterly results may be significantly affected by the size and timing of customer projects and our progress in completing such projects. We believe that the placement of customer orders may be concentrated in specific quarterly periods due to the time requirements and budgetary constraints of our customers. Although we recognize a significant portion of our revenue as projects are performed, progress may vary significantly from project to project, and we believe that variations in quarterly revenue are sometimes attributable to the timing of initial order placements. Due to the relatively fixed nature of certain of our costs, a decline of revenue in any quarter could result in lower profitability for that quarter. In addition, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could cause significant fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares. Our revenue, earnings and profitability are affected by the length of our sales cycle, and a longer sales cycle could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is directly affected by the length of our sales cycle. Information systems for communications companies are relatively complex and their purchase generally involves a significant commitment of capital, with attendant delays frequently associated with large capital expenditures and procurement procedures within an organization. The purchase of these types of products and services typically also requires coordination and agreement across many departments within a potential customer’s organization. Delays associated with such timing factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In periods of economic slowdown in the communications industry, our typical sales cycle lengthens, which means that the average time between our initial contact with a prospective customer and the signing of a sales contract increases. The lengthening of our sales cycle could reduce growth in our revenue. In addition, the lengthening of our sales cycle contributes to increased selling expenses, thereby reducing our profitability. We may be required to increase or decrease the scope of our operations in response to changes in the demand for our products and services, and if we fail to successfully plan and manage changes in the size of our operations, our business will suffer. In the past, we have both grown and contracted our operations, in some cases rapidly, in order to profitably offer our products and services in a continuously changing market. If we are unable to manage these changes and plan and manage any future changes in the size and scope of our operations, our business will suffer. Restructurings and cost reduction measures that we have implemented, from time to time, have reduced the size of our operations and workforce. Reductions in personnel can result in significant severance, administrative 9 Table of Contents and legal expenses and may also adversely affect or delay various sales, marketing and product development programs and activities. These cost reduction measures have included, and may in the future include, employee separation costs and consolidating and/or relocating certain of our operations to different geographic locations. Acquisitions, organic growth and absorption of significant numbers of customers’ employees in connection with managed services projects have, from time to time, increased our headcount. Our total workforce, which includes employees and consultants, has increased from 17,244 at the end of fiscal 2009 to 22,546 as of September 30, 2014. During periods of expansion, we may need to serve several new customers or implement several new large-scale projects in short periods of time. This may require us to attract and train additional IT professionals at a rapid rate, which we may have difficulties doing successfully. Volatility and turmoil in the world’s capital markets may adversely affect our investment portfolio and other financial assets. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term interest-bearing investments totaled $1,214 million, net of short-term debt, as of September 30, 2014. Our policy is to retain sufficient cash balances in order to support our growth. Our short-term investments consist primarily of money market funds, U.S. government treasuries, corporate bonds and U.S. agency securities. Although we believe that we generally adhere to conservative investment guidelines, adverse market conditions have resulted in immaterial impairments during the last three fiscal years of the carrying value of certain of our investment assets. Future adverse market conditions may lead to additional impairments. Realized or unrealized losses in our investments or in our other financial assets may adversely affect our financial condition. Declines in the financial condition of banks or other global financial institutions may adversely affect our normal financial operations. We may be exposed to the credit risk of customers that have been adversely affected by weakened markets. We typically sell our software and related services as part of long-term projects. During the life of a project, a customer’s budgeting constraints can impact the scope of a project and the customer’s ability to make required payments. In addition, adverse general business conditions may degrade the creditworthiness of our customers over time, and we can be adversely affected by bankruptcies or other business failures. Our international presence exposes us to risks associated with varied and changing political, cultural, legal and economic conditions worldwide. We are affected by risks associated with conducting business internationally. We maintain development facilities in Brazil, Canada, Cyprus, India, Ireland, Israel, the United Kingdom and the United States, and have operations in North America, Europe, Israel, Latin America and the Asia-Pacific region. Although a substantial majority of our revenue is derived from customers in North America and Europe, we obtain significant revenue from customers in the Asia-Pacific region and Latin America. Our strategy is to continue to broaden our North American and European customer bases and to continue to expand into international markets, including emerging markets, such as those in Latin America, Russia and other members of the Commonwealth of Independent States, India and Southeast Asia. Conducting business internationally exposes us to certain risks inherent in doing business in numerous markets, including: • lack of acceptance of non-localized products or services, • difficulties in complying with varied legal and regulatory requirements across jurisdictions, including those applicable to employees and the terms of employment, • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, • longer payment cycles, • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and withholding taxes that limit the repatriation of earnings, • trade barriers, 10 Table of Contents • challenges in complying with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, including communication, trade and privacy regulations, • immigration regulations that limit our ability to deploy our employees, • political instability and threats of terrorism, and • variations in effective income tax rates and tax policies among countries where we conduct business. One or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our operations, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. As we continue to develop our business internationally, including in emerging markets, we face increasing challenges that could adversely impact our results of operations, reputation and business. As we continue to expand our business internationally, including in emerging markets such as those in Latin America, Russia and other members of the Commonwealth of Independent States, India and Southeast Asia, we face a number of challenges. These challenges include those related to more volatile economic conditions, competition from companies that are already present in the market, the need to identify correctly and leverage appropriate opportunities for sales and marketing, poor protection of intellectual property, inadequate protection against crime (including counterfeiting, corruption and fraud), inadvertent breaches of local laws or regulations and difficulties in recruiting sufficient personnel with appropriate skills and experience. In addition, local business practices in jurisdictions in which we operate, and particularly in emerging markets, may be inconsistent with international regulatory requirements, such as anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and regulations (including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act) to which we are subject. It is possible that some of our employees, subcontractors, agents or partners may violate such legal and regulatory requirements, which may expose us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including penalties and suspension or disqualification from U.S. federal procurement contracting. If we fail to comply with such legal and regulatory requirements, our business and reputation may be harmed. Our international operations expose us to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our business. Although we have operations throughout the world, approximately 70% to 80% of our revenue and approximately 50% to 60% of our operating costs are denominated in, or linked to, the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, we consider the U.S. dollar to be our functional currency. Fluctuations in exchange rates between the dollar and the currencies not denominated in, or linked to, the U.S. dollar in which revenues are earned or costs are incurred may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. From time to time we may experience increases in the costs of our operations outside the United States, as expressed in dollars, as well as decreases in revenue not denominated in, or linked to, the U.S. dollars, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, during the height of the financial crisis in fiscal 2008, we recognized higher than usual foreign exchange losses under interest and other expense, net, mainly due to the significant revaluation of assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies attributable to the rapid and significant foreign exchange rate changes associated with the global economic turbulence. Although our foreign exchange losses have been less significant since then as a result of enhanced hedging strategies, we believe that foreign exchange rates may continue to present challenges in future periods. Our policy is to hedge significant net exposures in the major foreign currencies in which we operate, and we generally hedge our net currency exposure with respect to expected revenue and operating costs and certain balance sheet items. We do not hedge all of our currency exposure, including for currencies for which the cost of hedging is prohibitively expensive. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively limit all of our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. The imposition of exchange or price controls, devaluation policies, restrictions on withdrawal of foreign exchange, or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Political and economic conditions in the Middle East and other countries may adversely affect our business. Of the development centers we maintain worldwide, two of our largest development centers are located in Israel and India. In Israel, the centers are located in several different sites, and approximately 21% of our software and information technology, sales and marketing workforce is located in Israel. As a result, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel and its neighboring regions. Any major hostilities involving Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We maintain contingency plans to provide ongoing services to our customers in the event that escalated political or military conditions disrupt our normal operations. These plans include the transfer of some development operations within Israel to various of our other sites both within and outside of Israel. Implementation of these plans could disrupt our operations and cause us to incur significant additional expenditures, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Conflicts in North Africa and the Middle East, including in Egypt and Syria which border Israel, have resulted in continued political uncertainty and violence in the region. Reports of Iran’s continuing nuclear development program have seriously strained relations between Israel and Iran. In addition, efforts to improve Israel’s relationship with the Palestinian Authority have failed to result in a permanent solution, and there have been numerous periods of hostility in recent years involving, in particular, Gaza. Further deterioration of relations with the Palestinian Authority or other countries in the Middle East might require increased military reserve service by some of our workforce, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. In recent years, we have expanded our operations internationally, particularly in India, Southeast Asia and Latin America. Conducting business in these and other countries involves unique challenges, including political instability, threats of terrorism, the transparency, consistency and effectiveness of business regulation, business corruption, the protection of intellectual property, and the availability of sufficient qualified local personnel. Any of these or other challenges associated with operating in these countries may adversely affect our business or operations. We have development and other facilities at multiple locations in India, and approximately 38% of our software and information technology, sales and marketing workforce is located in India. Terrorist activity in India and Pakistan has contributed to tensions between those countries and our operations in India may be adversely affected by future political and other events in the region. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology from misappropriation, our business may be harmed. Any misappropriation of our technology or the development of competitive technology could seriously harm our business. Our software and software systems are largely comprised of software and systems we have developed or acquired and that we regard as proprietary. We rely upon a combination of trademarks, patents, contractual rights, trade secret law, copyrights, non-disclosure agreements and other methods to protect our proprietary rights. We enter into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with our customers, workforce and marketing representatives and with certain contractors with access to sensitive information, and we also limit our customer access to the source codes of our software and our software systems. We have undertaken, and will continue to undertake, appropriate actions to protect our technology. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate. If so, we might not be able to prevent others from using what we regard as our technology to compete with us. Existing trade secret, copyright and trademark laws offer only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary technology or allow enforcement of confidentiality covenants to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If we have to resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, the proceedings could be burdensome, protracted and expensive and could involve a high degree of risk. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could harm our business and subject us to potentially burdensome litigation. Our software and software systems are the results of long and complex development processes, and, although our technology is not significantly dependent on patents or licenses from third parties, certain aspects of 12 Table of Contents our products make use of readily available software components that we license from third parties, including our employees and contractors. As a developer of complex software systems, third parties may claim that portions of our systems violate their intellectual property rights. The ability to develop and use our software and software systems requires knowledge and professional experience that we believe is unique to us and would be very difficult for others to independently obtain. However, our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. Software developers, including us, have been and are becoming increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors providing software and services to the communications industry increases and overlaps occur. In addition, patent infringement claims are increasingly being asserted by patent holding companies, which do not use the technology subject to their patents, and whose sole business is to enforce patents against companies, such as us, for monetary gain. Any claim of infringement by a third party could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim and could distract our management from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from selling our products or offering our services, or prevent a customer from continuing to use our products. We support service providers and media companies with respect to digital content services, which could subject us to claims related to such services. Our entry into the digital content services market has also subjected us to possible claims of infringement of the ownership rights to media content, for example, as well as to direct legal claims from retail consumers arising from the delivery of such services. If anyone asserts a claim against us relating to proprietary technology or information, we might seek to license their intellectual property. We might not, however, be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms or on any terms. In addition, any efforts to develop non-infringing technology could be unsuccessful. Our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights or to develop non-infringing technology could prevent us from selling our products and could therefore seriously harm our business. Product defects, software errors, or service failures could adversely affect our business. Design defects or software errors may cause delays in product introductions and project implementations and damage customer satisfaction, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our software products are highly complex and may, from time to time, contain design defects or software errors that may be difficult to detect and correct. Because our products are generally used by our customers to perform critical business functions, design defects, software errors, misuse of our products, incorrect data from external sources, failures to comply with our service obligations or other potential problems within or outside of our control may arise during implementation or from the use of our products and services, and may result in financial or other damages to our customers, for which we may be held responsible. Although we have license and service agreements with our customers that contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential claims and liabilities arising from customer problems, these provisions may not effectively protect us against such claims in all cases and in all jurisdictions. In addition, as a result of business and other considerations, we may undertake to compensate our customers for damages caused to them arising from the use of our products and services, even if our liability is limited by a license or other agreement. Claims and liabilities arising from customer problems could also damage our reputation, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition and the ability to obtain “Errors and Omissions” insurance. Our use of “open source” software could adversely affect our ability to sell our services and subject us to possible litigation. We use open source software in providing our solutions, and we may use additional open source software in the future. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses. Under such licenses, if we engage in certain defined manners of use, we may be subject to certain conditions, including requirements that we offer our solutions that incorporate the open source software for no cost; that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, 13 Table of Contents incorporating or using the open source software; and/or that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. In addition, if a third-party software provider has incorporated open source software into software that we license from such provider in a manner that triggers one or more of the above requirements, we could be required to disclose any of our source code that incorporates or is a modification of such licensed software. If an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending such allegations and could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from the sale of our solutions that contained the open source software, and required to comply with the foregoing conditions, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our solutions. System disruptions and failures or security and privacy breaches may result in customer dissatisfaction, customer loss or both, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation and business. Our systems are an integral part of our customers’ business operations. The continued and uninterrupted performance of these systems by our customers is critical to our success. Customers may become dissatisfied by any system failure that interrupts our ability to provide services to them. Sustained or repeated system failures would reduce the attractiveness of our services significantly and could result in decreased demand for our products and services. Our ability to serve our customers depends on our ability to protect our computer systems against damage from fire, power loss, water damage, telecommunications failures, earthquake, terrorism attack, vandalism and similar unexpected adverse events. Despite our efforts to implement network security measures, our systems are also vulnerable to computer viruses, attacks, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. Although we maintain insurance that we believe is appropriate for our business and industry, such coverage may not be sufficient to compensate for any significant losses that may occur as a result of any of these events. We have experienced systems outages and service interruptions in the past. To date, these outages have not had a material adverse effect on us. However, in the future, a prolonged system-wide outage or frequent outages could cause harm to our reputation and could cause our customers to make claims against us for damages allegedly resulting from an outage or interruption. Any damage or failure that interrupts or delays our operations could result in material harm to our business and expose us to material liabilities. If a cyber-attack or other security incident were to result in unauthorized access to or modification of our customers’ data or our own data or our IT systems or in disruption of the services we provide to our customers, or if our products or services are perceived as having security vulnerabilities, we could suffer significant damage to our business and reputation. Customers could lose confidence in the security and reliability of our products and services, including our cloud offerings, and perceive them not to be secure. This in turn could lead to fewer customers using our products and services and result in reduced revenue and earnings. The costs we would incur to address and fix these security incidents would increase our expenses. These types of security incidents could also lead to lawsuits, regulatory investigations and claims and increased legal liability. Changes in the tax policies and regulations imposed by the jurisdictions in which we operate, the termination or reduction of certain government programs and tax benefits, or challenges by tax authorities of our tax positions could adversely affect our overall effective tax rate. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate of 13.8% for the year ended September 30, 2014 will not change over time as a result of changes in corporate income tax rates or other changes in the tax laws of Guernsey, the jurisdiction in which our holding company is organized, or of the various countries in which we operate. There is growing pressure in many jurisdictions and from multinational organizations such as the OECD and EU to amend existing international taxation rules in order to align the tax regimes with current global business practices and thereby generate more tax revenue. We have benefited or currently benefit from a variety of government programs and tax benefits that generally carry conditions that we must meet in order to be eligible to obtain any benefit. For example, through a subsidiary, we operate development centers and a business processing operations center in India. In 2014, the effective corporate tax rate applicable in India on trading activities was 33.99%. Our subsidiary in India operates under specific favorable tax entitlements that are based upon pre-approved information technology related 14 Table of Contents services activity. As a result, these activities are entitled to considerable corporate income tax reductions for our eligible income, which reduce the current applicable effective tax rate (cash basis) to 20%. Such favorable tax treatment is applied on all income derived from such pre-approved information technology activity, provided the subsidiary continues to meet the conditions required for such tax benefits. These benefits are scheduled to phase out over 15 years from the commencement of operations of the respective units within our Indian subsidiary. Proposed changes in Indian tax law may reduce or eliminate the availability of these beneficial tax rates. Please see “Item 10 — Additional Information — Taxation — Certain Indian Tax Considerations” for more information. If we fail to meet the conditions upon which certain favorable tax treatment is based, we would not be able to claim future tax benefits and could be required to refund tax benefits already received. In addition, any of the following could have a material effect on our overall effective tax rate: • some tax benefit programs may be limited in duration or may be discontinued, • we may be unable to meet the requirements for continuing to qualify for some programs, • these programs and tax benefits may be unavailable at their current levels, or • upon expiration of a particular benefit, we may not be eligible to participate in a new program or qualify for a new tax benefit that would offset the loss of the expiring tax benefit. The market price of our ordinary shares has and may continue to fluctuate widely. The market price of our ordinary shares has from time to time fluctuated widely and may continue to do so. Many factors could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to rise and fall, including: • market conditions in the industry and the economy as a whole, • variations in our quarterly operating results, • changes in our backlog levels, • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors, • introductions of new products and services or new pricing policies by us or our competitors, • trends in the communications or software industries, including industry consolidation, • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or others in our industry, • changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations by financial analysts, • changes in our shareholder base, and • political developments in the Middle East or other areas of the world. In addition, the stock market frequently experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. In the past, market fluctuations have, from time to time, particularly affected the market prices of the securities of many high technology companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. It may be difficult for our shareholders to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against us or our affiliates. We are incorporated under the laws of the Island of Guernsey and a majority of our directors and executive officers are not citizens or residents of the United States. A significant portion of our assets and the assets of those persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process upon us within the United States or upon such persons outside their jurisdiction of residence. Also, we have been advised that there is doubt as to the enforceability in Guernsey of judgments of the United States courts of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the laws of the United States, including the federal securities laws. 15 Table of Contents 