Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risks and uncertainties are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements. The factors described below are not the only ones we face and additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Risks Related to Our Need for Additional Financing and Our Financial Results We will need additional capital in the future and, if it is unavailable, we will be forced to significantly curtail or cease operations. If it is not available on reasonable terms we will be forced to obtain funds by entering into financing agreements on unattractive terms. As of December 31, 2006, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments (net of restricted cash and investments) of $79.6 million. We anticipate that our existing capital resources and the cash and revenues we expect to derive from drug discovery alliances, collaborations for the development and, in some cases, analysis of the physiological effects of genes altered in knockout mice, government grants and contracts and technology licenses will enable us to fund our currently planned operations for at least the next twelve months. Our currently planned operations for that time period consist of the continuation of our efforts to discover the physiological functions of 5,000 human genes that we consider to be pharmaceutically important, the expansion of our medicinal chemistry, biotherapeutics and preclinical research operations and the initiation and conduct of additional clinical trials. However, we caution you that we may generate less cash and revenues or incur expenses more rapidly than we currently anticipate. Although difficult to accurately predict, the amount of our future capital requirements will be substantial and will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to obtain additional funds from alliances, collaborations, government grants and contracts and technology licenses; • the amount and timing of payments under such agreements; • the level and timing of our research and development expenditures; • future results from clinical trials that we initiate; • the cost and timing of regulatory approvals of products that we successfully develop; and • market acceptance of products that we successfully develop and commercially launch. Our capital requirements will increase substantially to the extent we advance potential therapeutics into clinical development. Our capital requirements will also be affected by any expenditures we make in connection with license agreements and acquisitions of and investments in complementary products and technologies. For all of these reasons, our future capital requirements cannot easily be quantified. If our capital resources are insufficient to meet future capital requirements, we will have to raise additional funds to continue our currently planned operations. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our then-existing stockholders will experience dilution and the terms of any new equity securities may have preferences over our common stock. We cannot be certain that additional financing, whether debt or equity, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We may be unable to raise sufficient additional capital on reasonable terms; if so, we will be forced to significantly curtail or cease operations or obtain funds by entering into financing agreements on unattractive terms. We have a history of net losses, and we expect to continue to incur net losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred net losses since our inception, including net losses of $54.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, $36.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and $47.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $351.7 million. We are unsure when we will become profitable, if ever. The size of our net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, in our revenues and on the level of our expenses. 13 Table of Contents We derive substantially all of our revenues from drug discovery alliances, collaborations for the development and, in some cases, analysis of the physiological effects of genes altered in knockout mice, government grants and contracts and technology licenses, and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. Our future revenues from alliances, collaborations and government grants and contracts are uncertain because our existing agreements have fixed terms or relate to specific projects of limited duration. Our future revenues from technology licenses are uncertain because they depend, in part, on securing new agreements. Our ability to secure future revenue-generating agreements will depend upon our ability to address the needs of our potential future collaborators, granting agencies and licensees, and to negotiate agreements that we believe are in our long-term best interests. We may determine that our interests are better served by retaining rights to our discoveries and advancing our therapeutic programs to a later stage, which could limit our near-term revenues. Given the early-stage nature of our operations, we do not currently derive any revenues from sales of pharmaceutical products. A large portion of our expenses is fixed, including expenses related to facilities, equipment and personnel. In addition, we expect to spend significant amounts to enhance our core technologies and fund our research and development activities, including the conduct of clinical trials and the advancement of additional potential therapeutics into clinical development. As a result, we expect that our operating expenses will continue to increase significantly as additional drug programs progress into human clinical trials and, consequently, we will need to generate significant additional revenues to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our operating results have been and likely will continue to fluctuate, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Our operating results and, in particular, our ability to generate additional revenues are dependent on many factors, including: • our ability to establish new collaborations and alliances, government grants and contracts, and technology licenses, and the timing of such arrangements; • the expiration or other termination of collaborations and alliances, which may not be renewed or replaced; • the success rate of our discovery efforts leading to opportunities for new collaborations, alliances and licenses, as well as milestone payments and royalties; • the timing and willingness of our collaborators to commercialize pharmaceutical products that would result in milestone payments and royalties; and • general and industry-specific economic conditions, which may affect our and our collaborators’ research and development expenditures. Because of these and other factors, including the risks and uncertainties described in this section, our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. Due to the likelihood of fluctuations in our revenues and expenses, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Risks Related to Our Business We are an early-stage company, and we may not successfully develop or commercialize any therapeutics that we have identified. Our business strategy of using our technology platform and, specifically, the discovery of the functions of genes using knockout mice to select promising drug targets and developing and commercializing drugs based on our discoveries, in significant part through collaborations and alliances, is unproven. Our success will depend upon our ability to successfully develop potential therapeutics for drug targets we consider to have pharmaceutical value, whether on our own or through collaborations, and to select an appropriate commercialization strategy for each potential therapeutic we choose to pursue. Biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have successfully developed and commercialized only a limited number of genomics-derived pharmaceutical products to date. We have not proven our ability to develop or commercialize therapeutics or drug targets that we identify. We do not know that any pharmaceutical products 14 Table of Contents based on our drug target discoveries can be successfully commercialized. In addition, we may experience unforeseen technical complications in the processes we use to discover and develop potential therapeutics. These complications could materially delay or limit the use of our resources, substantially increase the anticipated cost of generating them or prevent us from implementing our processes at appropriate quality and throughput levels. Clinical testing of our drug candidates in humans is an inherently risky and time-consuming process that may fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy, which could result in the delay, limitation or prevention of regulatory approval. In order to obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any products that we may develop, we will be required to complete extensive clinical trials in humans to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates. We or our collaborators may not be able to obtain authority from the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or other equivalent foreign regulatory agencies to initiate or complete any clinical trials. In addition, we have limited internal resources for making regulatory filings and dealing with regulatory authorities. Clinical trials are inherently risky and the results from preclinical testing of a drug candidate that is under development may not be predictive of results that will be obtained in human clinical trials. In addition, the results of early human clinical trials may not be predictive of results that will be obtained in larger scale, advanced stage clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving positive results in earlier trials. Negative or inconclusive results from a preclinical study or a clinical trial could cause us, one of our collaborators or the FDA to terminate a preclinical study or clinical trial or require that we repeat it. Furthermore, we, one of our collaborators or a regulatory agency with jurisdiction over the trials may suspend clinical trials at any time if the subjects or patients participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. Any preclinical or clinical test may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA or institutional review boards at the medical institutions and healthcare facilities where we sponsor clinical trials may suspend any trial indefinitely if they find deficiencies in the conduct of these trials. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s current Good Clinical Practices. The FDA and these institutional review boards have authority to oversee our clinical trials, and the FDA may require large numbers of test subjects. In addition, we must manufacture, or contract for the manufacture of, the product candidates that we use in our clinical trials under the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices. The rate of completion of clinical trials is dependent, in part, upon the rate of enrollment of patients. Patient accrual is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, the nature of the study, the existence of competitive clinical trials and the availability of alternative treatments. Delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs and prolonged clinical development, which in turn could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or potential products. We or our collaborators may not be able to successfully complete any clinical trial of a potential product within any specified time period. In some cases, we or our collaborators may not be able to complete the trial at all. Moreover, clinical trials may not show our potential products to be both safe and effective. Thus, the FDA and other regulatory authorities may not approve any products that we develop for any indication or may limit the approved indications or impose other conditions. We are dependent upon our collaborations with major pharmaceutical companies. If we are unable to achieve milestones under those collaborations or if our collaborators’ efforts fail to yield pharmaceutical products on a timely basis, our business will suffer. We have derived a substantial majority of our revenues to date from collaborative drug discovery alliances with a limited number of major pharmaceutical companies. Revenues from our drug discovery alliances depend upon continuation of the collaborations, the achievement of milestones and payment of royalties we earn from any future products developed under the collaborations. If our relationship terminates with any of our collaborators, our reputation in the business and scientific community may suffer and revenues will be negatively impacted to the extent such losses are not offset by additional collaboration agreements. If we are unable to achieve milestones or our collaborators are unable to successfully develop products from which royalties are payable, we will not earn the revenues contemplated by those drug discovery alliances. In addition, some of our alliances are exclusive and preclude us from entering into additional collaborative arrangements with other parties in the field of exclusivity. 15 Table of Contents We have limited or no control over the resources that any collaborator may devote to the development and commercialization of products under our alliances. Any of our present or future collaborators may not perform their obligations as expected. These collaborators may breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct product discovery, development or commercialization activities successfully or in a timely manner. Further, our collaborators may elect not to develop pharmaceutical products arising out of our collaborative arrangements or may not devote sufficient resources to the development, approval, manufacture, marketing or sale of these products. If any of these events occurs, we may not be able to develop or commercialize potential pharmaceutical products. Conflicts with our collaborators could jeopardize the success of our collaborative agreements and harm our product development efforts. We may pursue opportunities in specific disease and therapeutic modality fields that could result in conflicts with our collaborators, if any of our collaborators takes the position that our internal activities overlap with those activities that are exclusive to our collaboration. Moreover, disagreements could arise with our collaborators over rights to our intellectual property or our rights to share in any of the future revenues of compounds or therapeutic approaches developed by our collaborators. Any conflict with or among our collaborators could result in the termination of our collaborative agreements, delay collaborative research or development activities, impair our ability to renew or obtain future collaborative agreements or lead to costly and time consuming litigation. Conflicts with our collaborators could also have a negative impact on our relationship with existing collaborators, materially impairing our business and revenues. Some of our collaborators are also potential competitors or may become competitors in the future. Our collaborators could develop competing products, preclude us from entering into collaborations with their competitors or terminate their agreements with us prematurely. Any of these events could harm our product development efforts. If we are unable to internally establish drug development and commercialization capabilities or arrange for the provision of such functions by third parties, our ability to develop and commercialize pharmaceutical products would be significantly impaired. Our ability to develop and commercialize pharmaceutical products on our own will depend on our ability to internally develop preclinical, clinical, regulatory and sales and marketing capabilities, or enter into arrangements with third parties to provide these functions. It will be expensive and will require significant time for us to develop these capabilities internally. We may not be successful in developing these capabilities or entering into agreements with third parties on favorable terms, or at all. Further, our reliance upon third parties for these capabilities could reduce our control over such activities and could make us dependent upon these parties. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, our drug development activities may be delayed, suspended or terminated. Such a failure by these third parties, or our inability to develop or contract for these capabilities, would significantly impair our ability to develop and commercialize pharmaceutical products. We lack the capability to manufacture materials for preclinical studies, clinical trials or commercial sales and will rely on third parties to manufacture our potential products, which may harm or delay our product development and commercialization efforts. We currently do not have the manufacturing capabilities or experience necessary to produce materials for preclinical studies, clinical trials or commercial sales and intend to rely on collaborators and third-party contractors to produce such materials. We will rely on selected manufacturers to deliver materials on a timely basis and to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including the current Good Manufacturing Practices of the FDA, which relate to manufacturing and quality control activities. These manufacturers may not be able to produce material on a timely basis or manufacture material at the quality level or in the quantity required to meet our development timelines and applicable regulatory requirements. In addition, there are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices and that are capable of producing such materials, and we may experience difficulty finding manufacturers with adequate capacity for our needs. If we are unable to contract for the production of sufficient quantity and quality of materials on acceptable terms, our product development and commercialization efforts may be delayed. Moreover, noncompliance with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, civil and criminal penalties, product recalls or seizures, suspension of production, failure to obtain marketing approval and withdrawal, suspension or revocation of marketing approvals. 16 Table of Contents We face substantial competition in our drug discovery and product development efforts. We face significant competition in our drug discovery and product development efforts from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as from universities and other not-for-profit institutions. In particular, certain competing companies such as Human Genome Sciences, Inc., Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Exelixis, Inc. utilize a genetics-based approach to target discovery and validation that is similar to our own. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, scientific and human resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may succeed in developing products earlier than we do, obtaining regulatory approvals faster than we do and developing products that are more effective or safer than any that we may develop. We may engage in future acquisitions, which may be expensive and time consuming and from which we may not realize anticipated benefits. We may acquire additional businesses, technologies and products if we determine that these businesses, technologies and products complement our existing technology or otherwise serve our strategic goals. If we do undertake any transactions of this sort, the process of integrating an acquired business, technology or product may result in operating difficulties and expenditures and may not be achieved in a timely and non-disruptive manner, if at all, and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. If we fail to integrate acquired businesses, technologies or products effectively or if key employees of an acquired business leave, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition would be jeopardized. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, such as increased revenues and earnings or enhanced business synergies. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, which could materially impair our results of operations and financial condition. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize our own products. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. We do not carry key man insurance on any key personnel and the loss of any of these personnel could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations and could inhibit our product development and commercialization efforts. Although we have entered into employment agreements with some of our key personnel, these employment agreements are all at will. In addition, not all key personnel have employment agreements. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel to perform future research and development work will be critical to our success. Competition for experienced scientists is intense. Failure to recruit and retain scientific personnel on acceptable terms could prevent us from achieving our business objectives. Any contamination among our knockout mouse population could negatively affect the reliability of our scientific research or cause us to incur significant remedial costs. Our generation and analysis of knockout mice are conducted in a specific pathogen-free environment. Any contamination of our knockout mouse population could distort or compromise the quality of our research and negatively impact the reliability of our scientific discoveries. Although we have expended substantial resources in order to secure our facilities from such risk, in the event such a contamination were to occur, our drug discovery efforts could be significantly harmed or delayed and our reputation within the scientific community could be eroded. In addition, we may incur significant remedial costs relating to the elimination of any pathogens present in our facilities. Because all of our target validation operations are located at a single facility, the occurrence of a disaster could significantly disrupt our business. Our OmniBank mouse clone library and its backup are stored in liquid nitrogen freezers located at our facility in The Woodlands, Texas, and our knockout mouse research operations are carried out entirely at the same facility. While we have developed redundant and emergency backup systems to protect these resources and the facilities in which they are stored, they may be insufficient in the event of a severe fire, flood, hurricane, tornado, mechanical failure or similar disaster. If such a disaster significantly damages or destroys the facility in which these resources are maintained, our business could be disrupted until we could regenerate the affected resources and, as a 17 Table of Contents result, our stock price could decline. Our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us in the event of a major interruption due to such a disaster. We use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business; any disputes relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development processes involve the use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and radioactive and biological materials. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge or any resultant injury from these materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. We could be subject to civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, these hazardous materials. In addition, claimants may sue us for injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. We do not currently maintain insurance coverage that would cover these types of environmental liabilities. Risks Related to Our Industry Our ability to patent our inventions is uncertain because patent laws and their interpretation are highly uncertain and subject to change. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies generally are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions that will determine who has the right to develop or use a particular technology or product. No clear policy has emerged regarding the scope of protection provided in gene, drug target and biopharmaceutical patents. In addition, certain uses of technologies and products covered by some of these patents may be subject to statutory exemptions from infringement under applicable law. The biopharmaceutical patent situation outside the United States is similarly uncertain. Changes in, or different interpretations of, patent laws in the United States or other countries might allow others to use our inventions or to develop and commercialize any technologies or products that we may develop without any compensation to us. We anticipate that these uncertainties will continue for a significant period of time. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, third parties may be able to use our technology, which could negatively impact our ability to compete in the market. Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of the intellectual property related to our technologies and future products. We will be able to protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. Pending patent applications do not provide protection against competitors because they are not enforceable until they issue as patents. Further, the disclosures contained in our current and future patent applications may not be sufficient to meet statutory requirements for patentability. Once issued, patents still may not provide commercially meaningful protection. If anyone infringes upon our or our collaborators’ patent rights, enforcing these rights may be difficult, costly and time-consuming and, as a result, it may not be cost-effective or otherwise expedient to pursue litigation to enforce those patent rights. Others may be able to design around these patents or develop unique products providing effects similar to any products that we may develop. Other companies or institutions may challenge our or our collaborators’ patents or independently develop similar products that could result in an interference proceeding in the United States Patent and Trademark Office or a legal action. Patent applications can take many years to issue and there may be currently pending patent applications of our competitors that later result in issued patents covering our discoveries. If any such patents are issued to other entities, we will be unable to obtain patent protection for the same or similar discoveries that we make. Moreover, we may be blocked from using or developing some of our existing or proposed technologies and products, or may be required to obtain a license that may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. Further, others may discover uses for our technologies or therapeutic products other than those covered in our issued or pending patents, and these other uses may be separately patentable. Even if we have a patent claim on a particular technology or therapeutic product, the holder of a patent covering the use of that technology or therapeutic product could exclude us from selling a product that is based on the same use of that product. 18 Table of Contents Additionally, significant aspects of our intellectual property are not protected by patents. As a result, we seek to protect the proprietary nature of this intellectual property as trade secrets through proprietary information agreements and other measures. While we have entered into proprietary information agreements with all of our employees, consultants, advisers and collaborators, we may not be able to prevent the disclosure of our trade secrets. In addition, other companies or institutions may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. We may be involved in patent litigation and other disputes regarding intellectual property rights and may require licenses from third parties for our discovery and development and planned commercialization activities. We may not prevail in any such litigation or other dispute or be able to obtain required licenses. Our discovery and development efforts as well as our potential products and those of our collaborators may give rise to claims that they infringe the patents of others. This risk will increase as the biotechnology industry expands and as other companies and institutions obtain more patents covering the sequences, functions and uses of genes and the drug targets they encode. We are aware that other companies and institutions have conducted research on many of the same targets that we have identified and have filed patent applications potentially covering many of the genes and encoded drug targets that are the focus of our drug discovery programs. In some cases, patents have issued from these applications. In addition, many companies and institutions have well-established patent portfolios directed to common techniques, methods and means of developing, producing and manufacturing pharmaceutical products. Other companies or institutions could bring legal actions against us or our collaborators for damages or to stop us or our collaborators from engaging in certain discovery or development activities or from manufacturing and marketing any resulting therapeutic products. If any of these actions are successful, in addition to our potential liability for damages, these entities would likely require us or our collaborators to obtain a license in order to continue engaging in the infringing activities or to manufacture or market the resulting therapeutic products or may force us to terminate such activities or manufacturing and marketing efforts. We may need to pursue litigation against others to enforce our patents and intellectual property rights and may be the subject of litigation brought by third parties to enforce their patent and intellectual property rights. In addition, we may become involved in litigation based on intellectual property indemnification undertakings that we have given to certain of our collaborators. Patent litigation is expensive and requires substantial amounts of management attention. The eventual outcome of any such litigation is uncertain and involves substantial risks. We believe that there will continue to be significant litigation in our industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We have expended and many of our competitors have expended and are continuing to expend significant amounts of time, money and management resources on intellectual property litigation. If we become involved in future intellectual property litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our resources and could negatively affect our results of operations. We use intellectual property that we license from third parties. If we do not comply with these licenses, we could lose our rights under them. We rely, in part, on licenses to use certain technologies that are important to our business, such as certain gene targeting technology licensed from GenPharm International, Inc. and conditional knockout technology licensed from DuPont Pharmaceuticals Company, now a subsidiary of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. We do not own the patents that underlie these licenses. Most of these licenses, however, including those licensed from GenPharm and DuPont, have terms that extend for the life of the licensed patents. Our rights to use these technologies and practice the inventions claimed in the licensed patents are subject to our abiding by the terms of those licenses and the licensors not terminating them. We are currently in compliance with all requirements of these licenses. In many cases, we do not control the filing, prosecution or maintenance of the patent rights to which we hold licenses and rely upon our licensors to prosecute infringement of those rights. The scope of our rights under our licenses may be subject to dispute by our licensors or third parties. We have not sought patent protection outside of the United States for some of our inventions, and some of our licensed patents only provide coverage in the United States. As a result, our international competitors could be granted foreign patent protection with respect to our discoveries. We have decided not to pursue patent protection with respect to some of our inventions outside the United States, both because we do not believe it is cost-effective and because of confidentiality concerns. Accordingly, our international competitors could develop, and receive foreign patent protection for, genes or gene sequences, uses of 19 Table of Contents those genes or gene sequences, gene products and drug targets, assays for identifying potential therapeutic products, potential therapeutic products and methods of treatment for which we are seeking United States patent protection. In addition, most of our gene trapping patents and our licensed gene targeting patents cover only the United States and do not apply to discovery activities conducted outside of the United States or, in some circumstances, to importing into the United States products developed using this technology. Our industry is subject to extensive and uncertain government regulatory requirements, which could significantly hinder our ability, or the ability of our collaborators, to obtain, in a timely manner or at all, regulatory approval of potential therapeutic products, or to commercialize such products. Our drug candidates, as well as the activities associated with their research, development and commercialization, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA or other equivalent foreign regulatory agencies. Our failure to obtain regulatory approval for a drug candidate would prevent us from commercializing that drug candidate. The regulatory approval process is expensive, time-consuming and can vary substantially depending on the modality, complexity and novelty of the drug candidate. The regulatory process includes extensive preclinical studies and human clinical trials, which can take many years and may require substantial expenditures. Such preclinical studies or clinical trials may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA or other equivalent foreign regulatory agencies. Even if we obtain regulatory approval, the FDA or other equivalent foreign regulatory agency may impose restrictions as to the approved use and labeling of our product or the types of patients to which we can market and sell our product. We have limited internal resources with respect to the regulatory process and have only limited experience in the preparation and filing of the applications necessary to obtain regulatory approval. If our potential products receive regulatory approval, we or our collaborators will remain subject to extensive and rigorous ongoing regulation. If we or our collaborators obtain initial regulatory approvals from the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for any products that we may develop, we or our collaborators will be subject to extensive and rigorous ongoing domestic and foreign government regulation of, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, labeling, promotion, advertising, distribution and marketing of our products and product candidates. The failure to comply with these requirements or the identification of safety problems during commercial marketing could lead to the need for product marketing restrictions, product withdrawal or recall or other voluntary or regulatory action, which could delay further marketing until the product is brought into compliance. The failure to comply with these requirements may also subject us or our collaborators to stringent penalties. Moreover, several of our product development areas involve relatively new technology and have not been the subject of extensive product testing in humans. The regulatory requirements governing these products and related clinical procedures remain uncertain and the products themselves may be subject to substantial review by foreign governmental regulatory authorities that could prevent or delay approval in those countries. Regulatory requirements ultimately imposed on any products that we may develop could limit our ability to test, manufacture and, ultimately, commercialize such products. The uncertainty of pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement may decrease the commercial potential of any products that we or our collaborators may develop and affect our ability to raise capital. Our ability and the ability of our collaborators to successfully commercialize pharmaceutical products will depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatment will be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other organizations. The pricing, availability of distribution channels and reimbursement status of newly approved pharmaceutical products is highly uncertain. As a result, adequate third-party coverage may not be available for us to maintain price levels sufficient for realization of an appropriate return on our investment in product discovery and development. In certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of healthcare products is subject to government control. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control. In addition, an increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has increased and will continue to increase the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. While we cannot predict the adoption of any such legislative or regulatory proposals or the effect such proposals or managed care efforts may have on our business, the announcement of such proposals or efforts could harm our ability to raise capital, and the adoption of such proposals or efforts could harm our results of operations. Further, to the extent that 20 Table of Contents such proposals or efforts harm other pharmaceutical companies that are our prospective collaborators, our ability to establish corporate collaborations would be impaired. In addition, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. We do not know whether consumers, third-party payers and others will consider any products that we or our collaborators develop to be cost-effective or that reimbursement to the consumer will be available or will be sufficient to allow us or our collaborators to sell such products on a profitable basis. We may be sued for product liability. We or our collaborators may be held liable if any product that we or our collaborators develop, or any product that is made with the use or incorporation of any of our technologies, causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Although we currently have and intend to maintain product liability insurance, this insurance may become prohibitively expensive or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. Our inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of products developed by us or our collaborators. If we are sued for any injury caused by our or our collaborators’ products, our liability could exceed our total assets. Public perception of ethical and social issues may limit or discourage the use of our technologies, which could reduce our revenues. Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to develop products discovered through our knockout mouse technologies. Governmental authorities could, for ethical, social or other purposes, limit the use of genetic processes or prohibit the practice of our knockout mouse technologies. Claims that genetically engineered products are unsafe for consumption or pose a danger to the environment may influence public perceptions. The subject of genetically modified organisms, like knockout mice, has received negative publicity and aroused public debate in some countries. Ethical and other concerns about our technologies, particularly the use of genes from nature for commercial purposes and the products resulting from this use, could reduce the likelihood of maintaining market acceptance of our technologies. 21 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 