RISK FACTORS An investment in shares of our common stock involves various risks. Before deciding to invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K and information incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. 24 Table of Contents Our business strategy includes the continuation of significant growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. Our assets have increased $368.9 million, or 91.9%, from $401.4 million at September 30, 2003 to $789.9 million at September 30, 2005, primarily due to increases in residential, home equity and commercial loans. We expect to continue to experience growth in the amount of our assets, the level of our deposits and the scale of our operations. Achieving our growth targets requires us to attract customers that currently bank at other financial institutions in our market, thereby increasing our share of the market. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to attract and retain experienced bankers, the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance growth opportunities will be available or that we will successfully manage our growth. If we do not manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to achieve our business plan, and our business and prospects could be harmed. Our recent results may not be indicative of our future operating results. We have achieved significant growth in earnings per share in recent years. For example, net income per share (diluted) grew from $0.36 for the year ended September 30, 2001 to $0.85 for the year ended September 30, 2005. Our strong performance during this time period was, in part, the result of an extremely favorable residential mortgage financing market. In the future, we may not have the benefit of a favorable interest rate environment or a strong residential mortgage market. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or restrict our ability to increase earnings at this same rate. Most of the residential mortgage loans in our portfolio do not conform to secondary market requirements, which may make them riskier and more difficult to sell. Most of the residential mortgage loans that we retain in our loan portfolio do not conform to or satisfy the requirements for sale in the secondary market. These loans generally do not conform to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac underwriting guidelines as a result of characteristics of the property, the loan terms or exceptions from agency underwriting guidelines. For example, we may make loans to borrowers who provide limited or no documentation of assets or income and have higher debt-to-income ratios than our loans conforming to secondary market guidelines. At September 30, 2005, our mortgage loan portfolio contained mostly non-conforming loans and included $61.6 million of loans with a combined loan-to-value ratio greater than 90% and $17.1 million of mortgage loans rated at the lowest acceptable internal credit grading level. Nonconforming one- to four-family residential loans are generally considered to have an increased risk of delinquency and foreclosure than conforming loans and may result in higher levels of realized loss. Although we have not experienced such increased delinquencies or foreclosures in the current economy, we cannot assure you that our nonconforming loan portfolio would not be adversely affected in the event of a downturn in regional economic conditions. Furthermore, nonconforming loans are not as readily saleable as loans that conform to agency guidelines and often can be sold only after discounting the purchase price. High loan-to-value ratios on a significant portion of our residential mortgage and home equity line of credit portfolios expose us to greater risk of loss. Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because we originated upon purchase of the underlying residence a first 25 Table of Contents mortgage with an 80% loan-to-value ratio and a concurrent second mortgage with a combined loan-to-value ratio of up to 100%. At September 30, 2005, approximately $61.6 million, or 24%, of our $255.7 million residential mortgage loan portfolio had original combined loan-to-value ratios in excess of 90%. In addition, our home equity lines of credit may have, when added to existing senior lien balances, a post-funding combined loan-to-value ratio of up to 100% of the value of the home securing the loan. At September 30, 2005, we held $5.3 million of uninsured home equity lines of credit with a combined loan-to-value ratio in excess of 90%. Our average loan to value ratio in our home equity line of credit portfolio is approximately 77%. Residential loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than would those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and, therefore, may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale. The unseasoned nature of our commercial loan portfolio may result in errors in judging its collectibility, which may lead to additional provisions or charge-offs, which would hurt our profits. Our commercial division’s loan portfolio, which includes loans secured by commercial, multi-family and residential real estate as well as business assets, has increased from $13.7 million, or 4.8% of total loans, at September 30, 2003 to $179.3 million, or 27.8% of total loans, at September 30, 2005. A large portion of our commercial loan portfolio is unseasoned and our limited experience in originating these types of loans does not provide us with a significant payment history pattern with which to judge future collectibility. These loans have also not been subjected to unfavorable economic conditions. As a result, it is difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance. Further, commercial loans generally have larger balances and involve a greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectibility of our commercial loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential mortgage loan portfolio. We may be unable to successfully integrate CWE Bancorp’s operations and retain CWE Bancorp’s employees. Our pending acquisition of CWE Bancorp, Inc. involves the integration of two companies that have previously operated independently. The difficulties of combining the operations of the two companies include: integrating personnel with different business backgrounds; combining different corporate cultures; and retaining key employees. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of the business and the loss of customers and key personnel. The integration of the two companies will require the experience and expertise of certain key employees of CWE Bancorp whom we expect to retain. We may not be successful in retaining these employees for the time period necessary to successfully integrate CWE Bancorp’s operations into ours. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the merger and the integration of the two companies’ operations could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations following the acquisition. An increase in interest rates may reduce our mortgage revenues, which would negatively impact our non-interest income. Our mortgage banking operations provide a significant portion of our non-interest income. We generate mortgage revenues primarily from gains on the sale of loans to investors on a servicing released basis. In a rising or higher interest rate environment, our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors. This would result in a decrease in mortgage revenues and a 26 Table of Contents corresponding decrease in non-interest income. In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of non-interest expenses associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense and other operating costs. During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations. If the value of real estate in the St. Louis and Kansas City metropolitan areas were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. With most of our loans concentrated in the St. Louis and Kansas City metropolitan areas, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans. A decline in property values would diminish our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral, making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. Also, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. Real estate values are affected by various factors in addition to local economic conditions, including, among other things, changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. Our business is subject to the success of the local economy in which we operate. Because the majority of our borrowers and depositors are individuals and businesses located and doing business in the St. Louis metropolitan area, our success depends to a significant extent upon economic conditions in the St. Louis metropolitan area. Adverse economic conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in the State of Missouri could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. The building of market share through our branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues. We intend to continue to build market share in the St. Louis metropolitan area through our branching strategy. We are planning three new branches that we intend to open within the next 24 months. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally require a period of time to generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of any of our new branches. Finally, we have no assurance our new branches will be successful even after they have been established. 27 Table of Contents Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that we have sufficient capital resources to satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. If we raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities, it would dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders which may adversely impact our current shareholders. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Our wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits at maturity and support our future growth. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. As we continue to grow, we are likely to become more dependent on these sources, which include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, proceeds from the sale of loans, brokered certificates of deposit and a line of credit from another financial institution. At September 30, 2005, we had approximately $171.0 million of FHLB advances outstanding with an additional $104.5 million available borrowing capacity, $118.9 million in brokered certificates of deposit and an additional $12.0 million in unused liquidity through a correspondent bank line of credit. If we were to become less than “well capitalized,” as defined by applicable Office of Thrift Supervision regulations, it would materially restrict our ability to acquire and retain brokered certificates of deposit. Additionally, adverse operating results or changes in industry conditions could lead to difficulty or an inability to access these additional funding sources. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our growth and profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and has occasionally forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. Many of our competitors are larger financial institutions. 28 Table of Contents While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, smaller resources and smaller lending limits, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. In recent years, several new financial institutions have formed in the St. Louis area. These de novo banks may price their loans and deposits aggressively in order to attract customers. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts, and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance this strategy will be successful. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., prime) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. Interest rates have recently been at historically low levels. However, between June 30, 2004 and December 1, 2005, the U.S. Federal Reserve has increased its target for the federal funds rate twelve times, from 1.00% to 4.00%. While these short-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our deposits) have increased, longer-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our longer-term loans) have not. This “flattening” of the market yield curve has had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin to date. If short-term interest rates continue to rise, and if rates on our deposits and borrowings continue to reprice upwards faster than the rates on our long-term loans and investments, we would experience further compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. 29 Table of Contents In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent and criticized loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, duration of the current business cycle, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are by nature more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. At September 30, 2005 our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 0.97%. Federal regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs, net of recoveries. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. Our future success and profitability is substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management. We are especially dependent on a limited number of key management personnel, none of whom has an employment agreement with us, except for our chief executive officer. The loss of the chief executive officer and other senior executive officers could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to continue to recruit and retain qualified loan originators could adversely affect our ability to compete successfully and affect our profitability. Our continued success and future growth depend heavily on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and motivated loan originators and other banking professionals. We compete against many institutions with greater financial resources both within our industry and in other industries to attract these qualified individuals. Our failure to recruit and retain adequate talent could reduce our ability to compete successfully and adversely affect our business and profitability. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Pulaski Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, its chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of its deposits. Pulaski Financial is subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of 30 Table of Contents Pulaski Bank. The regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are not intended to protect the interests of investors in our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq that are now applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, including the costs of completing our audit and maintaining our internal controls. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. Additionally, we outsource our data processing to a third party. If our third party provider encounters difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third party, it will significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect our business operations. We may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Our ability to service our debt, pay dividends and otherwise pay our obligations as they come due is substantially dependent on capital distributions from Pulaski Bank, and these distributions are subject to regulatory limits and other restrictions. A substantial source of our income from which we service our debt, pay our obligations and from which we can pay dividends is the receipt of dividends from Pulaski Bank. The availability of dividends from Pulaski Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of Pulaski Bank, and other factors, that the applicable regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other payments is an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event that Pulaski Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from Pulaski Bank would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 31 Table of Contents REGULATION General Pulaski Bank is subject to extensive regulation, examination and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision (the “OTS”), as its chartering agency, and the FDIC, as the deposit insurer. The Bank is a member of the FHLB System and its deposit accounts are insured up to applicable limits by the SAIF managed by the FDIC. The Bank must file reports with the OTS and the FDIC concerning its activities and financial condition in addition to obtaining regulatory approvals prior to entering into certain transactions such as mergers with, or acquisitions of, other financial institutions. There are periodic examinations by the OTS and the FDIC to test the Bank’s safety and soundness and compliance with various regulatory requirements. This regulation and supervision establishes a comprehensive framework of activities in which an institution can engage and is intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. The regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Any change in such regulatory requirements and policies, whether by the OTS, the FDIC or through legislation, could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Pulaski Financial, as a savings and loan holding company, is required to file certain reports with, and otherwise comply with the rules and regulations of the OTS under federal laws. Certain of the regulatory requirements applicable to the Bank and to Pulaski Financial are referred to below or elsewhere herein. The description of statutory provisions and regulations set forth in this document do not purport to be a complete description of such statutes and regulations and their effects on Pulaski Financial and the Bank. Federal Savings Institution Regulation Business Activities. The activities of federal savings institutions are governed by federal laws and regulations. These laws and regulations delineate the nature and extent of the activities in which federal associations may engage. In particular, many types of lending authority for federal associations, e.g., commercial, non-residential real property and consumer loans, are limited to a specified percentage of the institution’s capital assets. Loans to One Borrower. Federal laws provide that savings institutions are generally subject to the national bank limits on loans to one borrower. A savings institution may not make a loan or extend credit to a single or related group of borrowers in excess of 15% of the Bank’s unimpaired capital and surplus. An additional amount may be loaned, equal to 10% of unimpaired capital and surplus, if secured by readily-marketable collateral. QTL Test. Federal law requires savings institutions to meet a qualified thrift lender (“QTL”) test. Under the test, a savings bank is required to either be a “domestic building and loan association” within the definition of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), or maintain at least 65% of its “portfolio assets” (total assets less (i) specified liquid assets up to 20% of total assets, (ii) intangibles, including goodwill, and (iii) the value of property used to conduct business) in certain “qualified thrift investments” (primarily residential mortgages and related investments, including certain mortgage-backed securities) on a monthly basis in 9 out of every 12 months. A savings institution that fails the QTL test is subject to certain operating restrictions and may be required to convert to a bank charter. As of September 30, 2005, the Bank met the QTL test. 32 Table of Contents Limitation on Capital Distributions. OTS regulations impose limitations upon all capital distributions by a savings institution, such as cash dividends, payments to repurchase its shares and payments to shareholders of another institution in a cash-out merger. Under the regulations, an application to and the prior approval of the OTS is required prior to any capital distribution if the institution does not meet the criteria for “expedited treatment” of applications under OTS regulations (i.e., generally examination ratings in the two top categories), the total capital distributions for the calendar year exceed net income for that year plus the amount of retained net income for the preceding two years, the institution would be undercapitalized following the distribution or the distribution would otherwise be contrary to a statute, regulation or agreement with OTS. If an application is not required, the institution must still provide prior notice to OTS of the capital distribution. If the Bank’s capital fell below its regulatory requirements or the OTS notified it that it was in need of more than normal supervision, the Bank’s ability to make capital distributions could be restricted. In addition, the OTS could prohibit a proposed capital distribution by any institution, which would otherwise be permitted by the regulation, if the OTS determines that such distribution would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Assessments. Savings institutions are required to pay assessments to the OTS to fund the agency’s operations. The general assessment, paid on a semi-annual basis, is computed as a percentage upon the savings institution’s total assets, including consolidated subsidiaries, as reported in the Bank’s latest quarterly thrift financial report. Branching. The OTS regulations authorize federally chartered savings associations to branch nationwide to the extent allowed by federal statute. This permits federal savings and loan associations with interstate networks to more easily diversify their loan portfolios and lines of business geographically. The OTS authority preempts any state law purporting to regulate branching by federal savings institutions. Community Reinvestment Act. Under the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”), as implemented by OTS regulations, a savings institution has a continuing and affirmative obligation consistent with its safe and sound operation to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institution’s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community, consistent with the CRA. The CRA requires the OTS, in connection with its examination of a savings institution, to assess the institution’s record of meeting the credit needs of its community and to take such record into account in its evaluation of certain applications by such institution. The CRA also requires all institutions to make public disclosure of their CRA ratings. The Bank received a “Satisfactory” CRA rating in its most recent examination. Transactions with Related Parties. The Bank’s authority to engage in certain transactions with “affiliates” (i.e., any company that controls or is under common control with an institution, including Pulaski Financial and any non-savings institution subsidiaries) is limited by federal law. The aggregate amount of covered transactions with any individual affiliate is limited to 10% of the capital and surplus of the savings institution. The aggregate amount of covered transactions with all affiliates is limited to 20% of the savings institution’s capital and surplus. Certain transactions with affiliates are required to be secured by collateral in an amount and of a type described in federal law. The purchase of low quality assets from affiliates is generally prohibited. Transactions with affiliates must be on terms and under circumstances that are at least as favorable as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with non-affiliated companies. In addition, savings institutions are prohibited from lending to any affiliate that is engaged in activities that are not permissible for bank holding companies and no savings institution may purchase the securities of any affiliate other than a subsidiary. 33 Table of Contents The Bank’s authority to extend credit to executive officers, directors and 10% shareholders (“insiders”) as well as entities controlled by such persons is also governed by federal law. Such loans are required to be made on terms substantially the same as those offered to unaffiliated individuals and may not involve more than the normal risk of repayment. An exception exists for loans made pursuant to a benefit or compensation program that is widely available to all employees of the institution and does not give preference to insiders over other employees. The law limits both the individual and aggregate amount of loans the Bank may make to insiders based, in part, on the Bank’s capital position and requires certain board approval procedures to be followed. Enforcement. The OTS has primary enforcement responsibility over savings institutions and has the authority to bring actions against the institution and all institution-affiliated parties, including stockholders, and any attorneys, appraisers and accountants who knowingly or recklessly participate in wrongful action likely to have an adverse effect on an insured institution. Formal enforcement action may range from the issuance of a capital directive or cease and desist order to removal of officers and/or directors to institution of receivership, conservatorship or termination of deposit insurance. Civil penalties cover a wide range of violations and can amount to $25,000 per day, or even $1 million per day in especially egregious cases. The FDIC has the authority to recommend to the Director of the OTS that enforcement action to be taken with respect to a particular savings institution. If action is not taken by the Director, the FDIC has the authority to take such action under certain circumstances. Federal law also establishes criminal penalties for certain violations. Standards for Safety and Soundness. The federal banking agencies have adopted Interagency Guidelines Prescribing Standards for Safety and Soundness. The guidelines set forth the safety and soundness standards that the federal banking agencies use to identify and address problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. If the OTS determines that an institution fails to meet any standard prescribed by the guidelines, the OTS may require the institution to submit an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard. Capital Requirements. The OTS capital regulations require savings institutions to meet three minimum capital standards: a 1.5% tangible capital ratio, a 4% leverage ratio (3% for institutions receiving the highest rating on the CAMELS financial institution rating system), and an 8% risk-based capital ratio. In addition, the prompt corrective action standards discussed below also establish, in effect, a minimum 2% tangible capital standard, a 4% leverage capital ratio (3% for institutions receiving the highest rating in the CAMELS financial institution rating system) and, together with the risk-based capital standard itself, a 4% Tier I risk-based capital standard. The OTS regulations also require that, in meeting the tangible, leverage and risk-based capital standards, institutions must generally deduct investments in and loans to subsidiaries engaged in activities as principal that are not permissible for a national bank. The risk-based capital standard for savings institutions requires the maintenance of Tier 1 (core) and total capital (which is defined as core capital and supplementary capital) to risk weighted assets of 4% and 8%, respectively. In determining the amount of risk-weighted assets, all assets, including certain off-balance sheet assets, recourse obligations and direct credit substitutes are multiplied by a risk-weight of 0% to 100%, as assigned by the OTS capital regulation based on the risks OTS believes are inherent in the type of asset. Core capital is defined as common stockholders’ equity (including retained earnings), certain non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus, and minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries less intangibles other than certain mortgage servicing rights and credit card relationships. The components of supplementary capital currently include cumulative preferred stock, long-term perpetual preferred stock, mandatory convertible securities, subordinated debt and intermediate preferred stock and allowance for loan and lease losses. Allowance for loan and lease losses includable in supplementary capital is limited to a maximum of 1.25% of risk-weighted assets and up to 45% of unrealized gains in available-for-sale 34 Table of Contents securities with readily determinable fair values. Overall, the amount of supplementary capital included as part of total capital cannot exceed 100% of core capital. The OTS also has authority to establish individual minimum capital requirements in appropriate cases upon a determination that an institution’s capital level is or may become inadequate in light of the particular circumstances. Prompt Corrective Regulatory Action. The OTS is required to take certain supervisory actions against undercapitalized institutions, the severity of which depends upon the institution’s degree of under-capitalization. Generally, a savings institution that has a ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets of less than 8%, a ratio of Tier I (core) capital to risk-weighted assets of less than 4% or a ratio of core capital to total assets of less than 4% (3% or less for institutions with the highest examination rating) is considered to be “under-capitalized.” A savings institution that has a total risk-based capital ratio less than 6%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of less than 3% or a leverage ratio that is less than 3% is considered to be “significantly undercapitalized” and a savings institution that has a tangible capital to assets ratio equal to or less than 2% is deemed to be “critically undercapitalized.” Subject to a narrow exception, the OTS is required to appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is “critically undercapitalized.” The regulation also provides that a capital restoration plan must be filed with the OTS within 45 days of the date a savings institution receives notice that it is “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized.” Compliance with the plan must be guaranteed by any parent holding company. In addition, numerous mandatory supervisory actions become immediately applicable to an undercapitalized institution, including, but not limited to, increased monitoring by regulators and restrictions on growth, capital distributions and expansion. The OTS could also take any one of a number of discretionary supervisory actions, including the issuance of a capital directive and the replacement of senior executive officers and directors. Insurance on Deposit Accounts. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation maintains a risk-based system by which institutions are assigned to one of three categories based on their capitalization and one of three subcategories based on examination ratings and other supervisory information. An institution’s assessment rate depends upon the categories to which it is assigned. Assessment rates for Savings Association Insurance Fund member institutions are determined semiannually by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and currently range from zero basis points of deposits for healthy institutions to 27 basis points of deposits for the riskiest. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has authority to increase insurance assessments. A significant increase in Savings Association Insurance Fund insurance premiums would likely have an adverse effect on the operating expenses and results of operations of the Bank. Management cannot predict what insurance assessment rates will be in the future. Insurance of deposits may be terminated the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation upon finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Office of Thrift Supervision. The management of the Bank does not know of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of deposit insurance. Federal Home Loan Bank System. The Bank is a member of the FHLB System, which consists of 12 regional FHLBs. The FHLB provides a central credit facility primarily for member institutions. The Bank, as a member of the FHLB, is required to acquire and hold shares of capital stock in that FHLB in an amount at least equal to 5% of the aggregate or 1/20 of its advances (borrowings) from the FHLB. 35 Table of Contents The FHLBs are required to provide funds for the resolution of insolvent thrifts and to contribute funds for affordable housing programs. These requirements could reduce the amount of dividends that the FHLBs pay to their members and could also result in the FHLBs imposing a higher rate of interest on advances to their members. Federal Reserve System. The FRB regulations require savings institutions to maintain non-interest-earning reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily NOW and regular checking accounts). The regulations generally require that, during calendar year 2005, reserves be maintained against aggregate transaction accounts as follows: a 3% reserve ratio is assessed on net transaction accounts over up to and including $48.3 million; a 10% reserve ratio is applied over $48.3 million. The first $7.8 million of otherwise reservable balances (subject to adjustments by the FRB) were exempted from the reserve requirements. The Bank has complied with the foregoing requirements. Holding Company Regulation Pulaski Financial is a non-diversified unitary savings and loan holding company within the meaning of federal law. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 provides that no company may acquire control of a savings association after May 4, 1999 unless it engages only in the financial activities permitted for financial holding companies under the law or for multiple savings and loan holding companies as described below. Further, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act specifies that, subject to a grandfather provision, existing savings and loan holding companies may only engage in such activities. Pulaski Financial qualifies for the grandfathering and is therefore not restricted in terms of its activities. Upon any non-supervisory acquisition by Pulaski Financial of another savings association as a separate subsidiary, Pulaski Financial would become a multiple savings and loan holding company and would be limited to activities permitted multiple holding companies by OTS regulation. However, OTS has issued an interpretation concluding that multiple savings holding companies may also engage in activities permitted for financial holding companies, including lending, trust services, insurance activities and underwriting, investment banking and real estate investments. A savings and loan holding company is prohibited from, directly or indirectly, acquiring more than 5% of the voting stock of another savings institution or savings and loan holding company, without prior written approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision and from acquiring or retaining control of a depository institution that is not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. In evaluating applications by holding companies to acquire savings institutions, the Office of Thrift Supervision considers the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the company and institution involved, the effect of the acquisition on the risk to the deposit insurance funds, the convenience and needs of the community and competitive factors. The Office of Thrift Supervision may not approve any acquisition that would result in a multiple savings and loan holding company controlling savings institutions in more than one state, subject to two exceptions; (i) the approval of interstate supervisory acquisitions by savings and loan holding companies and (ii) the acquisition of a savings institution in another state if the laws of the state of the target savings institution specifically permit such acquisitions. The states vary in the extent to which they permit interstate savings and loan holding company acquisitions. Although savings and loan holding companies are not currently subject to specific capital requirements or specific restrictions on the payment of dividends or other capital distributions, federal regulations do prescribe such restrictions on subsidiary savings institutions as described below. The Bank must notify the Office of Thrift Supervision 30 days before declaring any dividend to Pulaski Financial. In addition, the financial impact of a holding company on its subsidiary institution is a matter that is evaluated 36 Table of Contents by the Office of Thrift Supervision and the agency has authority to order cessation of activities or divestiture of subsidiaries deemed to pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the institution. Acquisition of Pulaski Financial. Under the Federal Change in Bank Control Act (“CIBCA”), a notice must be submitted to the Office of Thrift Supervision if any person (including a company), a group acting in concert, seeks to acquire 10% or more of Pulaski Financial’s outstanding voting stock, unless the Office of Thrift Supervision has found that the acquisition will not result in a change in control of Pulaski Financial. Under the CIBCA, the Office of Thrift Supervision has 60 days from the filing of a complete notice to act, taking into consideration certain factors, including the financial and managerial resources of the acquirer and the anti-trust effect of the acquisition. Any company that so acquires control would then be subject to regulation as a savings and loan holding company. 37 Table of Contents 