Risk Factors” for further information on risks affecting our Company, our industry and our international operations. SALES AND MARKETING We sell our products and services worldwide through a sales and marketing organization that includes 20 sales locations in twelve countries throughout North America, Europe, Asia and Australia. In the United States, our sales force is located at our headquarters in New York and our sales locations in Chicago, IL, Fort Washington, PA, Houston, TX, Los Angeles, CA, San Francisco, CA, and Sunnyvale, CA. We also have sales locations in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Japan and South Korea. PRIVACY PROTECTION The growth of our business and of the Internet depends on user trust in the integrity of the Internet and in the businesses that use it. We believe that fostering user confidence in online privacy is an integral component of our commitment to delivering the right message to the right user at the right time. We 9 actively monitor privacy laws and regulations, and we take seriously the principles that consumers must have notice and choice and confidence that their information is secure. We are a founding member of the Network Advertising Initiative (NAI), a cooperation of companies that own major ad networks and we participate in the TRUSTe Web Seal program for Web sites that comply with TRUSTe’s strict standards for online privacy. We have qualified under the EU safe harbor framework developed by the U.S. Department of Commerce in coordination with the European Commission, which gives guidance on how to provide adequate protection for personal data from Europe, as required by the European Union’s Directive on Data Protection. We also designed our Open AdStream technology to help protect the privacy of online consumers and safeguard private information. We may collect non-personally identifiable information on behalf of our customers in the delivery of Internet advertising. When we perform such services, we provide notice to users about our use of such information and insist that our customers provide users with the choice not to participate. We do not directly collect or maintain a database of personally identifiable information about online consumers or associate online and offline information collected about users. We insist that our customers provide notice to users about the marketing uses of personally identifiable information collected online, including whether they associate online and offline information about users, and that they provide users with the choice not to participate. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We own U.S. Patent No. 6,026,368 entitled “On-Line Interactive System and Method for Providing Content and Advertising Information to a Targeted Set of Viewers.” The patent, which expires in 2015, embodies pioneering technology in the field of targeted content delivery. The patent relates to an online system for managing the delivery of targeted advertisements or other content that adjusts the priorities associated with such advertisements or content in order to satisfy exposure goals or other predetermined criteria. We also own U.S. Patent No. 6,601,041 entitled “Method of Providing Targeted Advertisement to a Computer Mediated Communications Network,” which covers methods relating to the sequencing of advertising, which we believe further extends our competitive advantage. This patent also expires in 2015. In January 2003, we acquired our Web analytics technology, for which a patent application currently is pending. The acquired Web analytics technology uses a proprietary taxonomy engine to speak the same language that a business uses when talking about its customers. It is designed to provide revenue-generating marketing intelligence to Web publishers and to help companies measure, analyze and monetize their interactive audience. Among other functions, the acquired technology is designed to enable marketers to perform behavioral segmentation and clickstream analysis and allow Web publishers and advertisers to use behavioral information with e-commerce and other applications. In 2002, we acquired U.S. Patent No. 5,446,919, entitled “Communication System and Method with Demographically or Psychographically Defined Audiences,” which broadly covers communications systems, including interactive and cable television, in which advertisements and other media messages are determined by demographic or psychographic information associated with the user. This patent expires in 2012. Open AdStream®, Insight XE®, Insight ACT®, Open Advertiser®, 24/7 Search® and Decide DNA® are U.S. registered trademarks of 24/7 Real Media, Inc. We have entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and nondisclosure agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to, and disclosure of, our proprietary information. 10 COMPETITION We believe we are a leader in the highly competitive market of Internet advertising and marketing services. We believe our ability to compete overall depends on many factors, including the following: · our ability to adapt and scale our existing technology, and develop and bring to market new technologies, as customer needs evolve; · the timing and acceptance of new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services either developed or acquired by us; · the performance, functionality, price and reliability of our products and services; · our global sales and marketing efforts; · our customer service and support efforts; and · the relative impact of general economic and industry conditions on us and our competitors. We also compete in each of our lines of business with companies offering similar services. We monitor our lines of business to ensure that we remain competitive in each of these areas. Main competitive drivers in each of our lines of business are the technology offered and its performance, the pricing of products and services and the levels of customer support. Media In our Media business we compete for advertising spending against Web publishers, including some of our partners who have their own sales forces. We also compete with a variety of Internet advertising networks and companies that facilitate Internet advertising, including ValueClick, Advertising.com, Burst! and Tribal Fusion, as well as some smaller niche online advertising networks. In addition to these Web site networks we also compete with large portal sites such as AOL, MSN and Yahoo!. We also compete with the traditional advertising media of television, radio, cable and print for a share of advertisers’ total advertising budgets. Search Our Search business competes with several other companies that provide SEM services, including DoubleClick/Performics, iProspect, iCrossing and Impaqt, a substantial number of local players in each market in which we operate, as well as start-up companies with untested SEM solutions. Technology We compete against other established providers of advertisement serving solutions, advertising agencies that are starting in-house SEM services, and several other companies that provide third-party advertisement serving services as well as start-up companies with untested products and services. Our competitors for advertisement serving solutions include DoubleClick, aQuantive/Accipiter and ValueClick. EMPLOYEES As of March 1, 2007, we employed approximately 390 persons worldwide, including approximately 243 in sales and marketing, 95 in technology and product development and 52 in accounting, human resources and administration. We consider our employee relations to be good. Our subsidiaries in France, Spain and Scandinavia are parties to collective bargaining agreements pursuant to, and in accordance with, applicable law. 11 WEBSITE ACCESS TO OUR SEC REPORTS Our Internet address is www.247realmedia.com. Through our Web site, we will make available, free of charge, the following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the SEC: our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; our Current Reports on Form 8-K; and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Our Proxy Statements for our Annual Stockholder Meetings are also available through our Web site. Our Web site and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You may also obtain copies of our reports without charge by writing to: 24/7 Real Media, Inc. 132 West 31st Street New York, NY 10001 Attn: Investor Relations 12 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISKS RELATED TO 24/7 REAL MEDIA, INC. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUSTAIN OUR PROFITABILITY. We have achieved profitability in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP, in certain reporting periods; however, we have also incurred net losses in other periods. We may not achieve profitability in future quarterly or annual reporting periods. We may incur net losses for the foreseeable future. Even if we do achieve profitability in future periods, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability in the short-term or long-term, on a quarterly or an annual basis, in subsequent periods. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY UPGRADE AND INTEGRATE OUR EXISTING PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGY. Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our success at upgrading and integrating our existing products and technology globally and transitioning our customers onto the upgraded products. From time to time we upgrade and issue new releases of our existing technology to integrate new functionalities and respond to industry developments. For example, in 2006 we released new versions of our Decide DNA platform for search marketers and our OAS platform targeted at publishers. We may experience delays, difficulties or increased costs that could hinder or prevent the successful design, integration, development, introduction, implementation or marketing of new releases of our technology globally. In addition, we must ensure that the performance levels and capacity of our technology remain steady when we release new versions to our customers and migrate customers onto new technology promptly. Any material delays in introducing or implementing a new release or migration or performance problems could cause us to lose customers and cause our revenue to decline. OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS FACE LEGAL AND CULTURAL CHALLENGES AND SUBJECT US TO ADDITIONAL RISKS. We have operations in a number of international markets, including Australia, Canada, Europe, Japan and South Korea, we sell our products and services into many additional international markets, and we currently derive more than 60% of our revenue from non-U.S. markets. We also plan to expand our operations in Asia and the Pacific Rim through our expanded joint venture with Dentsu. To date, we have limited experience in marketing, selling and distributing our solutions internationally in certain regions. Our international operations are subject to additional risks, including: · changes in regulatory requirements; · potentially adverse tax consequences and restrictions on cash flow resulting from, among other things: · local statutory liquidity requirements for businesses operating in certain foreign countries; · the need to maintain cash balances to meet short-term capital requirements; · operations in foreign countries with higher tax rates than the United States; · application of withholding taxes at a high rate on intercompany royalty and other payments; · the inability to utilize certain foreign tax credits; and · the inability to utilize some or all of losses generated in one or more foreign countries; 13 · difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; · reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; · general import/export restrictions relating to encryption technology and/or privacy matters; · local law requirements governing employment contracts, which may impose, among other things, minimum notice periods and minimum severance payments for involuntary terminations; · political and economic instability; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and · seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world. Any or all of these risks could affect our business outside of the United States and negatively impact our results of operations. STRATEGIC BUSINESS VENTURES, WHICH HAVE BEEN CRITICAL TO OUR GROWTH, MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL OR AVAILABLE TO US IN THE FUTURE. We were formed in February 1998 to consolidate three Internet advertising companies, and have since acquired or entered into joint ventures with many other companies. Most recently, in November 2006, we announced the planned expansion of our joint venture with Dentsu to provide our SEM services throughout Asia and the Pacific Rim. We may continue pursuing selective acquisitions of businesses, technologies and product lines and additional strategic ventures as a key component of our growth strategy. If we are unable to enter into new strategic business ventures in the future, our ability to grow and adapt in our industry may be impaired and our revenue may suffer. If we are able acquire new companies or expand our business lines through strategic ventures, any such business venture may result in the use of significant amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and the incurrence of debt and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. In addition, any such business venture may involve numerous risks, including: · the difficulty and cost of implementing new processes and procedures, integrating and assimilating any existing operations, technologies, products and personnel, and expanding, training and managing the work force; · implementing new, or remediating existing, financial and management controls, reporting systems, procedures and policies appropriate for a U.S. public company; · the dedication of global resources, personnel and members of management, on a short or long-term basis, which take a significant period of time and may distract management’s attention from our other operations; · the availability of favorable acquisition or other financing for the venture; and · the potential loss of key senior managers or employees of any acquired business. Our inability to successfully integrate any acquired company, or failure to achieve any expected synergies of an acquisition or strategic business venture, could adversely affect our business. 14 OUR FUTURE REVENUES AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MAY BE DIFFICULT TO FORECAST AND RESULTS IN PRIOR PERIODS MAY NOT BE INDICATIVE OF FUTURE RESULTS. At times our global revenue and revenue in certain segments and operating units has grown significantly and has decreased significantly. Accurate predictions of future revenues are difficult, among other things, because of the rapid changes in the markets and regulatory environment in which we operate. Additionally, our global Media business contracts for a substantial protion of its revenue in the month in which it runs. Our results of operations have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: · the addition of new clients or the loss of existing clients; · changes in fees paid to us by advertisers or publishers; · changes in the amount of royalties payable by us to our Global Web Alliance affiliates; · changes in the amount of our liability for our customers’ bad debt when we extend credit to customers; · the introduction of new Internet marketing services by us or our competitors; · variations in the levels of capital or operating expenditures, accounts receivable and payable, and other costs relating to the maintenance or expansion of our operations, including personnel costs; · seasonality, which tends to result in lower revenue during the summer months of the third quarter and higher revenue in the fourth quarter of each year; · changes in results of operations brought about by newly acquired businesses or strategic partnerships, the success of which may be difficult to predict; · changes in governmental regulation of online marketing or other regulatory requirements; · changes in accounting principles or any determination that one or more of the estimates or assumptions underlying our financial statements is faulty; and · general economic conditions. Our future revenues and results of operations may be difficult to forecast due to the above factors and the time we may need to adequately respond to any changes in them. For example, the search engines that we interface with in the provision of our SEM services may impose additional charges on us for using their technology interfaces to assist our clients. Our profit margins may suffer if we are unable to pass some of these types of costs on to our customers. In addition, our expense levels are based in large part on our investment plans and estimates of future revenues. Any increased expenses may precede or may not be followed by increased revenues, as we may be unable to, or may elect not to, adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. As a result, we believe that period-to-period and year-to-year comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful. 15 WE MAY HAVE INEFFICIENCIES IN OUR SEARCH BUSINESS MODEL OR MAY BE UNABLE TO CAPITALIZE ON CURRENT OR FUTURE SEARCH MARKETING TRENDS. The search industry is still relatively new, competition is high and there are no set parameters among SEM providers as to how to run campaigns, track data or include more complex features, such as behavioral targeting. We are working to develop set standards as our Search business grows, but our current strategies may not be successful in the long-run. As a result, it is difficult to predict how our Search segment will perform in the future. For example, revenue in the segment has increased significantly in recent periods, while margins have decreased as our lower gross margin managed SEM services business performed better than other search areas. Further, we have and may continue to encounter inefficiencies, such as the under or over-delivery of campaigns due to programming difficulties or set-backs and tools that must be reconfigured or replaced. Furthermore, our success in SEM is dependent in part on our ability to develop and maintain good relationships with the major search engines, who both cooperate and compete with us for search clients, and who change the requirements as to how external software must interact with their software on an on-going basis and are unwilling to negotiate those terms and conditions. There is no guarantee that our current or future Search software and techniques will meet our clients’ needs and the demands of search engines, successfully manage increasingly complex SEM campaigns or be profitable for our business. OUR TECHNOLOGY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES ARE BASED ON OUR PROPRIETARY OPEN ADSTREAM PLATFORM, AND OUR BUSINESS WOULD SUFFER IF OPEN ADSTREAM WAS DISRUPTED. Open AdStream is our proprietary advertisement serving technology and serves as our sole advertisement serving solution. We have incorporated a variety of functionalities and modules into this platform, and our Media business also utilizes Open AdStream technology. We must, among other things, ensure that the technology will continue to function efficiently at high volumes, interact properly with our database, offer the functionality demanded by our customers and assimilate our sales and reporting functions. Customers may become dissatisfied by any system failure that interrupts our ability to provide our services to them, including failures affecting our ability to deliver advertisements or report on advertisement delivery without significant delay. Sustained or repeated system failures would reduce the attractiveness of our solutions to advertisers, advertising agencies and Web publishers and result in contract terminations, fee rebates and make-goods, thereby reducing our revenue. Slower response time or system failures may also result from straining the capacity of our deployed software or hardware due to an increase in the volume of advertising delivered through our servers. To the extent that we do not effectively address any capacity constraints or system failures, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. OUR REVENUE COULD DECLINE IF WE FAIL TO EFFECTIVELY ACQUIRE AND MANAGE ADVERTISING INVENTORY. Our success depends in part on our ability to effectively obtain web publisher advertising inventory and sell it to advertisers. The Web publishers that currently list their unsold advertising inventory with us, including a small number of large Web publishers that provide us with a sizable amount of inventory, are not bound by long-term contracts and can change the amount of inventory they make available to us at any time. There is competition for Web site inventory among ad networks, and a Web publisher can easily reduce or cancel the advertising space from its Web sites available to us and provide it to a competitor. If this occurs, we may not be able to locate replacement advertising space from other Web sites with comparable traffic patterns and user demographics quickly enough to fulfill our advertisers’ requests. If we fail to manage our existing advertising space effectively to anticipate or meet our customers’ changing requirements, our revenue could decline. 16 We expect that our customers’ requirements will become increasingly sophisticated as the Web continues to mature as an advertising medium. Our growth depends on our ability to attract and retain advertisers and ad agencies by providing high quality advertising inventory with attractive demographics, innovative and quality content and large audiences. Our ability to provide such inventory is dependant on our capacity to screen out illegitimate or unreliable Web sites and attract and retain trustworthy, quality Web publishers. Web publisher retention depends on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including our ability to introduce new and innovative product lines and services, our ability to efficiently manage our existing advertising inventory, our pricing policies and the cost-efficiency to Web publishers of outsourcing all or part of their advertising sales. In addition, the number of competing intermediaries that purchase advertising inventory from Web publishers continues to increase. The amount of our inventory may not increase or even remain constant in the future, which could cause our advertising revenue to decline significantly. WE COULD LOSE CUSTOMERS OR ADVERTISING INVENTORY IF WE FAIL TO MEASURE IMPRESSIONS, CLICKS AND ACTIONS ON ADVERTISEMENTS IN A MANNER THAT IS ACCEPTABLE TO OUR ADVERTISERS AND WEB PUBLISHERS. We earn advertising revenue and make payments to Web publishers based on the number of impressions, clicks and actions from advertisements delivered on our network. Advertisers’ and Web publishers’ willingness to use our services and join our network will depend on the extent to which they perceive our delivery of advertisements and our measurements of clicks to be accurate and reliable. Advertisers and Web publishers often maintain their own technologies and methodologies for counting clicks, and from time to time we have had to resolve differences between our measurements and theirs, or regarding over-delivery of advertising impressions. Further, search and media advertisers are paying much closer attention to allegations of click fraud and impression fraud. Click fraud can occur when a user, manually or using a computer program (including internet “clickbots” or “zombie” computers) intentionally clicks on an advertisement displayed on a Web site for any reason other than a legitimate interest in the related content. Impression fraud, a variant of click fraud, can occur when a user, either manually or using a computer program, searches multiple times on a search engine for a keyword without clicking on the results of the searches. This can cause search engines to automatically disable the relevant keywords, knocking out high bidders on the keywords and increasing the display of advertisements for low bidders. As a result, search and media advertisers have become more willing to inquire about or challenge click counts related to SEM and media services. Search engine robots that are masked as valid browser agents could bypass industry standard robot and spider lists and our filters and also cause artificial inflation in click results. Any significant dispute over the proper measurement of clicks or impressions or other user responses to advertisements could cause us to lose customers, advertising inventory and revenue, could substantially reduce the gross profit margin we generate in our media and search businesses and could lead to a class action or other litigation. WE ARE UNDERTAKING SEVERAL GLOBAL INITIATIVES IN ORDER TO BETTER LEVERAGE OUR BUSINESS, AND OUR EFFORTS MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL OR MAY NOT BE BENEFICIAL TO EACH OF THE OFFICES IN WHICH WE OPERATE. In order to realign and better leverage our business we have commenced several global initiatives, including harmonizing our global product lines across the offices in which we operate, creating global standards for product management, development and marketing and implementing global databases for our sales personnel, which we will continue during the remainder of 2007. In order to synchronize our various offices and create a uniform worldwide business model we will need to, among other things, set up uniform processes, formalize and build out training courses, set up global information sharing and communication processes, identify and track productivity and cost measurements and identify areas of inefficiency and develop global recovery plans. While we anticipate that the global realignment will have 17 cost and efficiency savings for our business, there is no guarantee that our global efforts will be successful over the long run. Additionally, the global business model that we implement for each of our business segments may not be the ideal standard for each of our offices, and may result in increased costs and decreased savings for particular offices and lines of business throughout our organization. CHANGES IN THE ACCOUNTING RULES FOR STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS, OUR STOCK PRICE AND OUR ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN EMPLOYEES. We have a history of using employee stock options and other stock-based compensation to attract, motivate and retain our staff. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued the revised Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123, Share-Based Payment (“SFAS No. 123R”), which required us, as of January 1, 2006, to measure compensation costs for all stock-based compensation (including stock options) at fair value and to recognize these costs as expenses in our statements of operations. The recognition of these expenses in our statements of operations has had a negative effect on our earnings per share since the adoption of SFAS No. 123R and is likely to have a negative effect on our earnings per share in future periods, which could negatively impact our stock price. In addition, if we reduce or alter our use of stock-based compensation to minimize the recognition of these expenses, our ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel may be impaired, which could be detrimental to our business. OUR NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARDS MAY BE LIMITED. Due to the “change in ownership” provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, the availability of our net operating loss and credit carryforwards are subject to an annual limitation against taxable income in future periods, which could substantially limit the eventual utilization of these carryforwards. WE COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY AN IMPAIRMENT OF A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF GOODWILL AND/OR INTANGIBLE ASSETS ON OUR BALANCE SHEET. In the course of our operating history, we have acquired and disposed of numerous assets and businesses. Some of our acquisitions have resulted in the recording of a significant amount of goodwill and/or intangible assets on our balance sheet. The goodwill and/or intangible assets were recorded because the fair value of the net assets acquired was less than the purchase price. We may not realize the full value of the goodwill and/or intangible assets. As such, we evaluate on at least an annual basis whether events and circumstances indicate that all or some of the carrying value of goodwill and/or intangible assets are no longer recoverable, in which case we would write off the unrecoverable portion as a charge to our earnings. To improve our operating performance, we may decide to acquire other assets or businesses complementary to our business and, as a result, we may record additional goodwill and/or intangible assets on our balance sheet in the future. The possible write-off of the goodwill and/or intangible assets could negatively impact our future earnings. We will also be required to allocate a portion of the purchase price of any acquisition to the value of any intangible assets that meet the criteria specified in the SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, such as marketing, customer or contract-based intangibles. The amount allocated to these intangible assets could be amortized over a fairly short period. As a result, our earnings and the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. THE SUCCESS OF OUR SEARCH OPERATIONS DEPENDS ON OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH A SMALL NUMBER OF SEARCH ENGINES, AND THE LOSS OF ONE OF THEM COULD RESULT IN A SUBSTANTIAL DECREASE IN OUR SEARCH REVENUE. We have generated the majority of our global Search revenue from clicks originating on Google and Yahoo! Search Marketing, through relationships with these search engines in many countries in which we 18 operate. We expect that these search engines will continue to generate a majority or more of our Search revenue for the foreseeable future. The interruption, loss or deterioration of our relationship with Google or Yahoo! would cause a significant decrease in our Search revenue. As a result of consolidation among search engines, and other SEM companies, we could lose one or more of our clients or face increased competition from clients that internally develop or acquire capabilities similar to our service. In addition, as our search clients’ operations continue to evolve, we may be required to adjust our business strategy to maintain relationships with our clients. The loss of, or a change in, one or more of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our Search revenue. OUR MAJOR BUSINESS PARTNERS MAY EXPERIENCE ADVERSE BUSINESS CONDITIONS THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We have a joint venture with Dentsu to promote SEM services in Japan, the expansion of which we recently announced, we have major search engine distribution partners, such as Google and Yahoo! Search Marketing, and we may enter into similar relationships with other companies. A substantial portion of our revenue is, directly or indirectly, attributable to these major relationships. If one or more of these companies experiences adverse business conditions that may render them unable to meet our expectations for the strategic business relationship or to fulfill their contractual obligations to us, such an event could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. IF WE LOSE ANY KEY PERSONNEL, OUR BUSINESS WILL BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Our success depends, to a significant extent, upon our senior management and key sales and technical personnel, particularly our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Technical Officer and our Chief Infrastructure Officer. The competition for experienced and talented executives, senior managers and technical and sales personnel has become intense in our industry. The loss of the services of one or more of these persons, other similarly positioned members of management or other key personnel could materially and adversely affect our ability to develop our business. IN ORDER TO CONTINUE TO OPERATE EFFICIENTLY AND TO GROW OUR BUSINESS, WE WILL NEED TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL AND MANAGE OUR COSTS, WHICH WE MAY BE UNABLE TO DO. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, sales and marketing, customer support, financial and accounting, and managerial personnel. We may expand our total workforce and will need to continue to attract qualified personnel in order to grow our business successfully. Additionally, as our business has escalated, we have increased our reliance on contractors and outside firms for development. We may not be able to attract, integrate and retain the numbers and types of candidates that we desire, and we may not be able to retain our contractors and outside firms and may not be able to replace them. Even if we are successful in attracting new staff and retaining existing staff, we may not be able to increase revenue quickly enough to offset the costs of the additional personnel or increased cost of retaining personnel. Any of these contingencies could cause our business to suffer. We have experienced, are experiencing and may continue to experience, particular difficulty in hiring and retaining qualified staff. Competition for staff throughout all our business segments and geographies is very high, and training is difficult because the required skill set is complex and there is no industry standard. If we are unable to attract, train and retain qualified staff, we may not remain competitive and could lose business and our customers, which could have an adverse effect on revenue. 19 OUR OPERATIONS ARE VULNERABLE TO NATURAL DISASTERS AND OTHER EVENTS, INCLUDING TERRORIST ATTACKS, BECAUSE WE HAVE LIMITED BACKUP SYSTEMS. We have limited backup systems and have experienced system failures and electrical outages from time to time in the past, which have disrupted our operations. We have a limited disaster recovery plan in the event of damage from fire, floods, typhoons, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. Our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our computer systems against these unexpected adverse events. If any of the foregoing occurs, we may experience a complete system shutdown. Any business interruption insurance that we carry is unlikely to be sufficient to compensate us for loss of business in the event of a significant catastrophe. In addition, interruptions in our services could result from the failure of our telecommunications providers to provide the necessary data communications capacity in the time frame we require. Our Open AdStream technology resides on computer systems located in our data centers housed by Equinix, Switch and Data, and Savvis in the United States and Level 3 Communications in Europe. These systems’ continuing and uninterrupted performance is critical to our success, as a substantial portion of our revenue depends on the continuing availability of these systems. Despite precautions that we have taken, unanticipated problems affecting our systems have from time to time in the past caused, and in the future could cause, interruptions in the delivery of our solutions. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by any damage or failure that interrupts or delays our operations. To improve the performance and to prevent disruption of our services, we may have to make substantial investments to deploy additional servers or one or more copies of our Web sites to mirror our online resources. Although we believe we carry property insurance with adequate coverage limits, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses, particularly with respect to loss of business and reputation that may occur. In addition, terrorist acts or acts of war may cause damage to our employees, facilities, clients, our clients’ customers and vendors, which could significantly impact our revenues, costs and expenses and financial position. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations in ways that cannot be presently predicted. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. OUR NETWORK OPERATIONS MAY BE VULNERABLE TO HACKING, VIRUSES AND OTHER DISRUPTIONS, WHICH MAY MAKE OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES LESS ATTRACTIVE AND RELIABLE. Internet usage could decline if any well-publicized compromise of security occurs. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. Hackers have made many attempts to breach the security of our network operations, with minimal disruption to date. If hackers are successful in the future, they could misappropriate proprietary information or cause substantial disruptions in our service. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect our Web site against hackers. Any measures we may take may not be effective. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, as well as materially damage our reputation and decrease our user traffic. 20 WE DEPEND ON PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, AND WE FACE THE RISK OF INFRINGEMENT. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent on our internally developed technologies and trademarks, which we protect through a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark law. We own three patents in the United States, and have filed and intend to file additional patent applications in the United States. In addition, we apply to register our trademarks in the United States and internationally. Our patent applications and trademark applications may not be approved. Even if they are approved, such patents or trademarks may be successfully challenged by others or invalidated. If our trademark registrations are not approved because third parties own such trademarks, our use of such trademarks will be restricted unless we enter into arrangements with such third parties that may be unavailable on commercially reasonable terms. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and generally control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use or disclosure, parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our solutions or technologies. The steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of our solutions or technologies, particularly in many foreign countries in which we operate, where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We have from time to time licensed, and we may license in the future, elements of our trademarks, trade dress and similar proprietary rights to third parties. While we attempt to ensure that the quality of our brand is maintained by these business partners, such partners may take actions that could materially and adversely affect the value of our proprietary rights or our reputation. The value of our proprietary rights could decline in the future since the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of certain proprietary rights in Internet-related industries is uncertain and still evolving. We have, from time to time, been, and may in the future be, subject to claims of alleged infringement of the trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us or by Web publishers with Web sites in our Global Web Alliance, or by customers who employ our Technology solutions. We may be required, or may elect, to indemnify these parties against such claims. Such claims and any resultant litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages and could result in the invalidation of our proprietary rights. In addition, even if we prevail, such litigation could be time-consuming and expensive to defend, and could result in the diversion of our time and attention, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any claims or litigation from third parties may also result in limitations on our ability to use the trademarks and other intellectual property subject to such claims or litigation unless we enter into arrangements with the third parties responsible for such claims or litigation, which may be unavailable on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. From time to time, we may selectively pursue claims of infringement of our patents and other intellectual property rights by third parties. Such claims and any resultant litigation present the risk that a court could determine, either preliminarily or finally, that some of our patents or other intellectual property rights are not valid, which may make it difficult to sell our technology solutions and may lead to a loss of and an inability to generate licensing revenue from our patents. In addition, even if we prevail, such litigation could be time-consuming and expensive to pursue, and could result in the diversion of our time and attention, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 21 RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK AND THE MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK. THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK HAS BEEN VOLATILE HISTORICALLY AND MAY CONTINUE TO BE VOLATILE IN RESPONSE TO VARIOUS INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL FACTORS. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile historically and may continue to be unstable. For example, during the past twelve months, the closing sales price of our common stock on the NASDAQ National Market has ranged from a high of $11.61 per share to a low of $6.75 per share. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely in response to various events and factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as quarterly or annual variations in the operating results and stock price performance of the Company, our competitors or our business partners; announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new or improved products or services or business relationships; the initiation or discontinuation of coverage by securities analysts; guidance and reports by securities analysts, including changes in their financial earnings estimates and recommendations; announcements about our earnings estimates or earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations or prior Company guidance; announcements by our competitors about their earnings, especially if they are not in line with analyst expectations; sales of stock by us or by our stockholders; and new reports relating to trends in our markets and general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for technology or Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may negatively impact the market price for our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options or other equity-based awards. WE HAVE A VERY SUBSTANTIAL OVERHANG OF COMMON STOCK AND FUTURE SALES OF OUR COMMON STOCK WILL CAUSE SUBSTANTIAL DILUTION AND MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. As of February 28, 2007, there were approximately 50.8 million shares of our common stock outstanding. As of that date, we also had an aggregate of approximately 12.2 million shares of common stock that may be sold into the market in the future, including approximately 6.6 million shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of options, approximately 0.1 million shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants related to our preferred stock, approximately 3.3 million shares of our common stock issuable upon vesting of restricted shares, and approximately 2.2 million shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the debentures and exercise of the related warrants. In addition, if we undertake an additional acquisition or financing involving securities convertible into shares of our common stock, the aggregate number of shares into which those securities are convertible will further increase our overhang. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock into the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale, will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including the sale of securities convertible into shares of our common stock), or the perception that such sales could occur, or the grant of a large number of options, may materially and adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. 22 WE DISCLOSE PRO FORMA INFORMATION, WHICH MAY EXCLUDE ITEMS THAT ARE IMPORTANT TO AN INVESTOR’S UNDERSTANDING OF OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We prepare and release quarterly financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We also disclose and discuss certain pro forma and other non-GAAP information in the related earnings releases and investor conference calls. This pro forma financial information excludes or may exclude certain special charges and other costs. We believe the disclosure of the pro forma financial information helps investors more meaningfully evaluate the results of our ongoing operations. However, we urge investors to carefully review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, and our quarterly earnings releases, and to compare the GAAP financial information to the pro forma financial results disclosed in our quarterly earnings releases and investor calls. OUR ABILITY TO GENERATE SUFFICIENT CASH FLOW TO REPAY OUR INDEBTEDNESS DEPENDS ON MANY FACTORS, SOME OF WHICH ARE BEYOND OUR CONTROL. On September 26, 2003, we issued to a single holder $15.0 million in principal amount of our 2% subordinated convertible debentures due September 2006, subsequently extended to September 2009 at the election of the holder. On January 1, 2004, we began making semi-annual interest payments, which, thus far, we have elected to pay with cash flow from operations. We need to ensure that we have sufficient cash on hand to cover any portion of the balance that we elect to pay in cash at maturity, or, if the holder elects to exercise its redemption right with respect to $7.5 million in principal amount of the debentures, any amount thereof that we elect to redeem in cash. Our ability to generate cash flow is subject to economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations, we may need to, among other things, seek additional financing, refinance or restructure our debt or reduce or issue a large amount of common stock, which, if possible, would be very dilutive or delay planned expenditures. THE TERMS OF THE DEBENTURES HAVE ANTI-DILUTION PROVISIONS FAVORING THE HOLDER, WHICH DISCOURAGE US FROM ENGAGING IN TRANSACTIONS IN WHICH THE ISSUANCE OF COMMON STOCK MIGHT BE REQUIRED AND WHICH OTHERWISE MIGHT BE BENEFICIAL TO OUR BUSINESS. The terms of the debentures provide that, subject to certain exceptions, if, for financing purposes, we issue or sell any shares of our common stock at a price less than the conversion price of the debentures, which is $8.75 per share of our common stock, the conversion price of the debentures will be reduced to the price at which we issue new shares. This device, which is anti-dilutive for the debenture holder, may discourage us from engaging in a transaction that might otherwise be beneficial to our security holders, if we would be required to issue common stock at a price below $8.75 per share. THE POWER OF OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO DESIGNATE AND ISSUE SHARES OF STOCK COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON HOLDERS OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 350,000,000 shares of common stock for such consideration as they may consider sufficient, without seeking stockholder approval. The issuance of additional shares of common stock in the future would reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of current stockholders. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, the rights and preferences of which our Board of Directors may designate without stockholder approval. The designation and issuance of preferred stock in the future could create additional securities with dividend and liquidation preferences prior in right of payment to the outstanding shares of common stock. 23 EFFECTS OF ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS COULD INHIBIT THE ACQUISITION OF OUR COMPANY. Some of the provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our By-laws and Delaware law could, among other things, together or separately: · discourage, delay or prevent potential acquisition proposals; · discourage, delay or prevent transactions involving an actual or threatened change in control; · impede the ability of our stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year; and · limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. These provisions may apply even if the action that is limited or prevented might be in the best interest of our shareholders. WE DO NOT INTEND TO PAY FUTURE CASH DIVIDENDS. We currently do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock at any time in the near future. We may never pay cash dividends or distributions on our common stock. In addition, the terms of our debentures restrict our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock. Whether we pay cash dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, contractual restrictions and any other factors that the Board of Directors decides is relevant. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY. OUR FAILURE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY MAY HINDER OUR GROWTH. The markets for Internet advertising and related products and services are intensely competitive and such competition is expected to increase. Our failure to compete successfully may hinder our growth. We believe that our ability to compete depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: · the development of new online advertising media and methods; · the timing and market acceptance of new products and enhancements of existing services developed by us and our competitors; · the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; · changing demands regarding customer service and support; · shifts in sales and marketing efforts by us and our competitors; and · the ease of use, performance, price and reliability of our services and products. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than ours. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products or services to address the needs of our prospective clients. In addition, most online advertising companies are seeking to broaden their business models, so that companies that do not currently compete directly with us may decide to compete more directly with us in the future. We may be unable to compete successfully against current or future competitors. 24 CHANGES IN GOVERNMENT REGULATION COULD DECREASE OUR REVENUES AND INCREASE OUR COSTS. Laws and regulations directly applicable to Internet communications, commerce and advertising are becoming more prevalent, and new laws and regulations are under consideration by the United States Congress and state legislatures. Any legislation enacted or restrictions arising from current or future government investigations or policy, including any legislation that does not have adequate provisions to protect net neutrality, could dampen the growth in use of the Internet generally and decrease the acceptance of the Internet as a communications, commercial and advertising medium. State governments or governments of foreign countries might attempt to regulate our transmissions or levy sales or other taxes relating to our activities. The laws governing the Internet, however, remain largely unsettled, even in areas where there has been some legislative action. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws such as those governing intellectual property, privacy, libel and taxation apply to the Internet and Internet advertising. In addition, the growth and development of Internet commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws, both in the United States and abroad, which may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business over the Internet. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by the adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet. CHANGES IN DOMESTIC OR INTERNATIONAL LAWS AND STANDARDS RELATING TO DATA COLLECTION AND USE PRACTICES AND THE PRIVACY OF INTERNET USERS, OR RELATED LITIGATION, COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. The U.S. federal and various state governments have recently proposed limitations on the collection and use of information regarding Internet users. In 2004 and 2005, the U.S. Congress proposed several new pieces of legislation that would limit the use of technologies deemed to be “spyware,” which some bills have defined to include cookies, Web beacons and javascript, which are required by our products and services. The effectiveness of our Open AdStream products and services could be significantly limited by federal and state regulations limiting the collection or use of information regarding Internet users that are inconsistent with our policies and practices. Since many of the proposed federal and state laws or regulations are being developed, we cannot yet determine the impact these regulations may have on our business. In addition, growing public concern about privacy and the collection, distribution and use of personal information has led to self-regulation of these practices by the Internet advertising and direct marketing industry, and to increased federal and state regulation. Lastly, a number of civil actions have been brought by federal and state authorities against companies alleged to have distributed “spyware” without the proper consent of users. The Network Advertising Initiative, of which we are a founding member, has developed self-regulatory principles for online preference marketing. We are also subject to various federal and state regulations concerning the collection, distribution and use of personal information. These laws include the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act and state laws that limit or preclude the use of voter registration and drivers license information, as well as other laws that govern the collection and use of consumer credit information. While we monitor legislative initiatives, in the event that more onerous federal or state laws or regulations are enacted or applied to us or to our clients, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We also face risks associated with international data and privacy protection. The interpretation and application of data protection laws in Europe and elsewhere are still uncertain and subject to change. It is possible that one or more of these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our policies on data collection and use, or that new laws may be enacted that conflict with our data collection and use. If so, we could be subjected to fines, face increased compliance costs, be required to change our data practices or be exposed to lawsuits, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 25 PRIVACY CONCERNS MAY PREVENT US FROM COLLECTING USER DATA. Growing concerns about the use of cookies and data collection may limit our ability to develop user profiles. Web sites typically place small files of information, commonly known as “cookies,” on a user’s hard drive, generally without the user’s knowledge or consent. Cookie information is passed to the Web site through the Internet user’s browser software. Our Open AdStream technology enables the use of cookies and other non-personally-identifying information to deliver targeted advertising and to limit the frequency with which an advertisement is shown to a user. Most currently available Internet browsers allow users to modify their browser settings to prevent cookies from being stored on their hard drive, and Microsoft Corporation changed the design and instrumentation of its Web browser to give users the option to accept or reject third-party cookies. There is also third-party software available that blocks the storage of cookies on a user’s hard drive. A small minority of users are currently choosing to prevent certain cookies. Users can also delete cookies from their hard drive or modify them at any time. Some Internet commentators and privacy advocates have suggested limiting or eliminating the use of cookies. Any reduction or limitation in the use of cookies or increase in the number of users blocking cookies could limit the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and impair our profiling and targeting capabilities. Such changes also could adversely affect our ability to determine the reach of advertising campaigns sold and delivered by us and the frequency with which users of sites in the Global Web Alliance see the same advertisement. If the use or effectiveness of cookies is limited, we would likely have to switch to other technology that would allow us to gather demographic and behavioral information. While such technology currently exists, it is substantially less effective than cookies. Replacement of cookies could require significant engineering time and resources, might not be completed in time to avoid negative consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations, and might not be commercially feasible. WE FACE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE. The Internet and Internet advertising markets are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service introductions and changing customer demands. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies and to enhance existing solutions and develop and introduce a variety of new solutions to address our customers’ changing demands. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful design, development, introduction or marketing of our solutions. In addition, our new solutions or enhancements must meet the requirements of our current and prospective customers and must achieve significant market acceptance. Material delays in introducing new solutions and enhancements may cause customers to forego purchases of our solutions and purchase those of our competitors. In addition, the development of commercial software and technology that blocks, eliminates or otherwise screens out Internet advertising may reduce the value of advertising inventory on our Global Web Alliance and the benefits of our technology solutions to our customers. We cannot guarantee that a new commercial software or technology, for end-users or enterprises, will not be capable of eliminating a portion or all of the advertisement formats, including banners, pop-ups, pop-unders and other formats, that we utilize through our Global Web Alliance or that we currently deliver through our technology solutions. To the extent that our customers refuse to pay for advertisements that are blocked, or if the use of blocking software exceeds our expectations, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 26 