ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS General economic and market conditions may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations are affected directly by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. Future economic slowdowns in some markets, particularly in the United States, may cause reductions in spending by our clients, which may result in reductions in the growth of new business as well as reductions in existing business. There can be no assurance that the effects of such slowdowns will not adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. If our clients are not successful, or the trend towards outsourcing does not continue, the amount of business that our clients outsource and the prices that they are willing to pay for such services may diminish and could adversely affect our business. Our revenues depend on the success of our clients. If our clients or their specific programs are not successful, the amount of business that they outsource may be diminished. There can be no assurance that the level of revenues generated by such contracts will meet expectations. A reduction in the amount of business we receive from our clients could result in stranded capacity and costs. In addition, we may face pricing pressure from clients, which could negatively affect our operating results.Growth of our revenues depends, in large part, on the trend toward outsourcing. Outsourcing involves companies contracting with a third party, such as Convergys, to provide customer management services rather than performing such services in-house. There can be no assurance that this trend will continue, as organizations may elect to perform such services in-house. A significant change in this trend could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.A large portion of our revenue is generated from a limited number of clients, and the loss of significant work from one or more of our clients could adversely affect our business. Our three largest clients, as discussed under the section above titled “Clients,” collectively represented 45.8% of our revenues for 2013. While we typically have multiple work orders and/or contracts with our largest customers which would not all terminate at the same time, the loss of one or more of the larger work orders or contracts with one of our largest clients could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition if the lost revenues were not replaced with profitable revenues from that client or other clients.Our business is substantially dependent on the condition of the global communications industry.Approximately 60% of our revenue in 2013 was received from customers operating in the global communications industry. The global communications industry in the past has experienced significant fluctuations in growth rates and capital investment, and it is impossible to predict its future performance. Our revenues and earnings could be adversely affected by general weakness or a slowdown in the communications industry.Our failure to successfully acquire and integrate businesses could cause our business to suffer. We have made, and in the future may make, acquisitions of or investments in companies, technologies or products in existing, related or new markets. Business combinations, acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks that vary depending on their scale and nature, including risks associated with:•diversion of management's attention from other operational matters;•the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns;Convergys Corporation 2013 Annual Report 6•ineffective integration of operations, systems, technologies, or employees, which can affect the ability to realize anticipated synergies or other benefits; •failure to attract, retain and motivate key employees; •the potential impact of the announcement or consummation of a proposed transaction on relationships with third parties; •potential changes in our credit rating, which could adversely impact the Company's access to and cost of capital; •reductions in cash balances and/or increase in debt obligations to finance activities associated with a transaction, which reduce the availability of cash flow for general corporate or other purposes;•exposure to new operational risks, rules, regulations, worker expectations, customs and practices to the extent acquired businesses are located in regions where we have not historically conducted business; •challenges associated with managing new, more diverse and more widespread operations, projects and people, and providing services to new industries; •inadequacy or ineffectiveness of an acquired company's internal financial controls, disclosure controls and procedures, anti-corruption, human resource, or other policies or practices;•unknown, underestimated and/or undisclosed commitments or liabilities; and •inappropriate scale of acquired entities' critical resources or facilities for business needs. The occurrence of any of these risk could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. We process, transmit and store personally identifiable information and unauthorized access to or the unintended release of this information could result in a claim for damage or loss of business and create unfavorable publicity. We process, transmit and store personally identifiable information, both in our role as a service provider and as an employer. This information may include social security numbers, financial and health information, as well as other personal information. As a result, we are subject to certain contractual terms, as well as federal, state and foreign laws and regulations, designed to protect personally identifiable information. While we take measures to protect the security and privacy of this information and to prevent unauthorized access, it is possible that our security controls over personal data and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable information. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer data, whether through system failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for clients, whether by our employees or third parties, could result in negative publicity, legal liability and damage to our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Interruption of our data centers and contact centers could have a materially adverse effect on our business. In the event that we experience a temporary or permanent interruption at one or more of our data or contact centers, through natural disaster, casualty, operating malfunction, cyber attack, sabotage or other causes, we may be unable to provide the data services we are contractually obligated to deliver. This could result in us being required to pay contractual damages to some clients or to allow some clients to terminate or renegotiate their contracts. Notwithstanding disaster recovery and business continuity plans and precautions instituted to protect our clients and us from events that could interrupt delivery of services (including property and business interruption insurance that we maintain), there is no guarantee that such interruptions would not result in a prolonged interruption in our ability to provide support services to our clients or that such precautions would adequately compensate us for any losses we may incur as a result of such interruptions. Natural events, war, terrorist attacks, other civil disturbances and epidemics could disrupt our operations or lead to economic weakness in the countries in which we operate, resulting in a decrease of our revenues, earnings and cash flow. Natural events (such as floods and earthquakes), war, terrorist attacks and epidemics of contagious illness could disrupt our operations in the U.S. and abroad and could lead to economic weakness in the countries in which they occur. We have substantial operations in countries such as the Philippines that have been subject to severe natural events, such as earthquakes and floods, in the past. Such disruptions could cause service interruptions or reduce the quality level of the services that we provide, resulting in a reduction of our revenues, earnings and cash flow and the payment of contractual penalties to our customers. These events may also cause our clients to reconsider their use of our services.Our ability to deliver our services is at risk if the technology and network equipment that we rely upon is not maintained or upgraded in a timely manner.Convergys Corporation 2013 Annual Report 7 Technology is a critical foundation in our service delivery. We utilize and deploy internally developed and third party software solutions across various hardware environments. We operate an extensive internal voice and data network that links our global sites together in a multi-hub model that enables the rerouting of traffic. Also, we rely on multiple public communication channels for connectivity to our clients. Our clients are highly dependent upon the high availability and uncompromised security of our systems. These systems are subject to the risk of an extended interruption or outage due to many factors, such as system failures, acts of nature and intentional, unauthorized attacks from third parties. Accordingly, maintenance of and investment in these foundational components are critical to our success. If the reliability of our technology or network operations falls below required service levels, or a systemic fault affects the organization broadly, we may be obligated to pay performance penalties to our customers, and our business from existing and potential clients may be jeopardized and cause our revenue and cash flow to decrease.Our earnings are affected by changes in foreign currency.Our business serves an increasing number of its U.S.-based clients using contact center capacity in the Philippines, India, Latin America and Canada. More than half of our approximately 84,000 employees are located outside the United States. Although the contracts with these clients are typically priced in U.S. dollars, a substantial portion of the costs incurred by Convergys to render services under these contracts is denominated in Philippine pesos, Indian rupees, Canadian dollars or Colombian pesos, which represents a foreign exchange exposure to the Company. We enter into forward exchange contracts and options to limit potential foreign currency exposure. If the U.S. dollar weakens the operating expenses of these contact centers, translated into U.S. dollars, increase. It is intended that the increase in operating expenses will be partially offset by gains realized through the settlement of the hedged instruments. As the derivative instruments that limit our potential foreign currency exposures are entered into over a period of several years, the overall impact to earnings will be determined by both the timing of the derivative instruments and the movement of the U.S. dollar. In addition to the impact on our operating expenses that support dollar-denominated contracts, changes in foreign currency impact the results of our international business units that are located outside of North America. The cash we hold may be subject to counterparty credit risk and we may not be able to repatriate to the U.S. cash held in foreign accounts without paying taxes.While we continuously monitor the creditworthiness of the institutions holding our cash, the recent global economic and credit crisis has weakened the creditworthiness of many financial institutions. If one or more of the institutions holding our cash were to experience cash flow problems or were to become subject to insolvency proceedings, we may not be able to recover some or all of our deposited cash. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 40% of our cash and short term investments balance of $663.7 million was held in accounts outside of the United States, most of which would be subject to additional taxes if repatriated to the United States. In addition, the counterparties to our hedge transactions are financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions, and we are subject to risks that these counterparties become insolvent and fail to perform their financial obligations under these hedge transactions. Our hedging exposure to counterparty credit risk is not secured by any collateral.We may not be able to predict our future tax liabilities. If we become subject to increased levels of taxation or if tax contingencies are resolved adversely, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Due to the international nature of our operations, we are subject to the complex and varying tax laws and rules of several foreign jurisdictions. We may not be able to predict the amount of future tax liabilities to which we may become subject due to some of these complexities if our positions are challenged by local tax authorities. Any increase in the amount of taxation incurred as a result of challenges to our tax filing positions or due to legislative or regulatory changes could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to tax audits, including issues related to transfer pricing, in the United States and other jurisdictions. We have material tax-related contingent liabilities that are difficult to predict or quantify. While we believe that our current tax provisions are reasonable and appropriate, we cannot be assured that these items will be settled for the amounts accrued or that additional exposures will not be identified in the future or that additional tax reserves will not be provided for any such exposures.Our results of operations could be adversely affected by litigation and other commitments and contingencies.The Company faces risks arising from various unasserted and asserted litigation matters, including, but not limited to, commercial, tax and patent infringement claims. Unfavorable outcomes in pending litigation, or in future litigation, could negatively affect us. Convergys Corporation 2013 Annual Report 8In the ordinary course of business, we may make certain commitments, including representations, warranties and indemnities relating to current and past operations and divested businesses, and issue guarantees of third party obligations. The amounts of such commitments can only be estimated, and the actual amounts may differ materially from our estimates.If we were required to make payments as a result of any of these matters and they exceed the amounts accrued, this could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.We are susceptible to business and political risks from international operations that could result in reduced revenues or earnings. We operate a global business and have facilities located throughout North and South America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. In addition, as North American companies require additional off-shore customer management outsourcing capacity, we expect to continue international expansion through start-up operations and acquisitions. Expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional countries will require management attention and financial resources. There are certain risks inherent in conducting business internationally including: exposure to currency fluctuations, longer payment cycles, greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection, difficulties in complying with a variety of laws in these jurisdictions, changes in legal or regulatory requirements, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, inflation, political instability, compliance with anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation and potentially adverse tax consequences. To the extent that we are adversely affected by these risks, our business could be adversely affected and our revenues and/or earnings could be reduced.Our business is subject to many regulatory requirements, and current or future regulation could significantly increase our cost of doing business.Our business is subject to many laws and regulatory requirements in the United States and the foreign countries in which we operate, covering such matters as labor relations, health care requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, data privacy, consumer protection, internal and disclosure control obligations, governmental affairs and immigration. In the U.S., as well as several of the other countries in which we operate, some of our services must comply with various laws and regulations regarding the method and timing of placing outbound telephone calls and the recording or monitoring of telephone calls. Many of these regulations, including those related to data privacy, are frequently changing and sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. Violations of these laws and regulations, some of which can be conflicting, could result in liability for damages, fines, criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and restrictions on our ability to operate. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation in the marketplace, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Because a substantial portion of our operating costs consist of labor costs, changes in governmental regulations (particularly in the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate) relating to wages, healthcare and healthcare reform and other benefits or employment taxes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, there has been political discussion and debate related to worldwide competitive sourcing, labor-related legislation and information-flow restrictions, particularly from the United States to off-shore locations. Federal and state legislation has been proposed that, if enacted, could restrict or discourage U.S. companies from outsourcing services outside of the U.S. Future legislation, if enacted, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business performance and growth plans may be negatively affected if we are unable to effectively manage changes in the application and use of technology. The utilization of technology in our industry has and will continue to increase rapidly. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to develop and implement technology solutions that anticipate and keep pace with continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely and cost-effective basis, and our ideas may not be accepted in the marketplace. Additionally, the effort to gain technological expertise and develop new technologies in our business requires us to incur significant expenses. If we cannot offer new technologies as quickly as our competitors or if our competitors develop more cost-effective technologies, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and complete customer engagements. Also, if customer preferences for technology disproportionately outpace other interaction preferences, it could have a material adverse impact on our revenue profile and growth plans.Defects or errors within our software could adversely affect our business. Convergys Corporation 2013 Annual Report 9Design defects or software errors may delay software introductions or reduce the satisfaction level of clients and may have a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our software is highly complex and may, from time to time, contain design defects or software errors that may be difficult to detect and/or correct. Because both our clients and we use our software to perform critical business functions, design defects, software errors or other potential problems within or outside of our control may arise from the use of our software. It may also result in financial or other damages to our clients, for which we may be held responsible. Although our license agreements with our clients may often contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential claims and liabilities arising from client problems, these provisions may not effectively protect us against such claims in all cases and in all jurisdictions. Claims and liabilities arising from client problems could result in monetary damages to us and could cause damage to our reputation, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition.If we do not effectively manage our capacity, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to profit from the global trend toward outsourcing depends largely on how effectively we manage our contact center capacity. In order to create the additional capacity necessary to accommodate new or expanded outsourcing projects, we may need to open new contact centers. The opening or expansion of a contact center may result, at least in the short-term, in idle capacity until we fully implement the new or expanded program. The usage of home agents could help mitigate this risk. We periodically assess the expected long-term capacity utilization of our contact centers. As a result, we may, if deemed necessary, consolidate, close or partially close under-performing contact centers to maintain or improve targeted utilization and margins. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to achieve or maintain optimal utilization of our contact center capacity. We also may experience short-term and/or longer-term fluctuations in client demand for services performed in one or more of our contact centers. Short-term downward fluctuations may result in less than optimal site utilization for a period of time. Longer-term downward fluctuations may result in site closures. As a result, we may not achieve or maintain targeted site utilization levels, or site utilization levels may decrease over certain periods, and our profitability may suffer as a result.A large portion of our accounts receivable is payable by a limited number of clients and the inability of any of these clients to pay its accounts receivable could adversely affect our business. Because a large portion of our revenue is generated from a limited number of clients, we often carry significant accounts receivable balances from those clients. While we closely monitor these balances, if a significant client were financially unable or unwilling, for any reason, to pay our accounts receivable, our income and cash flow would decrease. We also have several important clients that are in industries that have been severely impacted by the current global economic slowdown. In addition, our income could be materially impacted by a number of small clients declaring bankruptcy within a short period of time.We may incur material restructuring charges in the future. In the past, we have recorded restructuring charges related to involuntary employee terminations, various facility abandonments, and various other restructuring activities. We continually evaluate ways to reduce our operating expenses through new restructuring opportunities, including more effective utilization of our assets, workforce, and operating facilities. In addition, changing industry and market conditions may dictate strategic decisions to restructure some business units and discontinue others. As a result, there is a risk, which is increased during economic downturns and with expanded global operations, that we may incur material restructuring charges in the future.We may incur additional non-cash goodwill impairment charges in the future. As described in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we test goodwill for impairment annually as of October 1 and at other times if events have occurred or circumstances exist that indicates the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable. There can be no assurances that we will not incur impairment charges in the future, particularly in the event of a prolonged economic slowdown.Our controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. Any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of controls must consider the benefits of controls relative to their costs. Controls cannot assure that no judgments in decision-making will be faulty or that breakdowns will not occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. While controls are designed with the intent of providing reasonable assurance of the effectiveness of the controls, such design is also based in Convergys Corporation 2013 Annual Report 10part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and such assumptions, while reasonable, may not take into account all potential future conditions. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be prevented or detected, and we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and other disclosures, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price.The markets in which we operate include a large number of service providers and are highly competitive. Many of our competitors are expanding the services they offer in an attempt to gain additional business. In addition, new competitors, alliances among competitors or competitors' mergers could result in significant market share gain. Some of our competitors may have or may develop a lower cost structure, adopt more aggressive pricing policies or provide services that gain greater market acceptance than the services that we offer or develop. Large and well-capitalized competitors may be able to better respond to the need for technological changes faster, price their services more aggressively, compete for skilled professionals, finance acquisitions, fund internal growth and compete for market share. Our customers routinely negotiate for better pricing, and in order to respond to increased competition and pricing pressure, we may be required to lower our pricing structure, which would have an adverse effect on our revenues and profit margin. Client consolidations could result in a loss of clients and adversely affect our business. We serve clients in industries that have experienced a significant level of consolidation. We cannot assure that additional consolidations will not occur in which our clients acquire additional businesses or are acquired themselves. Such consolidations may result in the termination of an existing client contract, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our success is subject to the terms of our client contracts.Most of our client contracts do not have minimum volume requirements, and the profitability of each client contract or work order may fluctuate, sometimes significantly, throughout various stages of the program. Certain contracts have performance-related bonus and/or penalty provisions which provide that the client may be required to pay us a bonus, or we may be required to issue the client a credit, based upon our meeting, or failing to meet, agreed-upon service levels and performance metrics. Our objective is to sign multi-year contracts with our clients; however, our contracts generally allow our client to terminate the contract for convenience or to reduce the amount of our services. We cannot be assured that our clients will not terminate their contracts before their scheduled expiration date, that the volume of services for these programs will not be reduced or that we will be able to avoid penalties or earn performance bonuses. In addition, we cannot be assured that each client contract will be profitable for us or that we will be able to terminate unprofitable contracts without incurring significant liabilities.If we are unable to hire or retain qualified personnel in certain areas of our business, our ability to execute our business plans in those areas could be impaired and revenues could decrease. We employ approximately 84,000 employees worldwide. At times, we have experienced difficulties in hiring personnel with the desired levels of training or experience. Additionally, in regard to the labor-intensive business of the Company, quality service depends on our ability to retain employees and control personnel turnover. Any increase in the employee turnover rate could increase recruiting and training costs and could decrease operating effectiveness and productivity. We may not be able to continue to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to adequately staff new client projects. The volatility of our stock price may result in loss of investment. The trading price of our common shares has been and may continue to be subject to substantial fluctuations over short and long periods of time. We believe that market prices of outsourced customer contact management services stocks in general have experienced volatility, which could affect the market price of our common stock regardless of our financial results or performance. We further believe that various factors such as general economic conditions, changes or volatility in the financial markets, changing market conditions in the outsourced customer contact management services industry, quarterly variations in our financial results, the announcement of acquisitions or divestitures, strategic partnerships or new product offerings, and changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts could cause the market price of our common shares to fluctuate substantially in the future.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Convergys Corporation 2013 Annual Report 11None. 