Item 1A. Risk Factors (continued) Our failure to successfully integrate or acquire businesses could cause our business to suffer. Our expansion and growth may be dependent in part on our ability to make acquisitions. The risks we face related to acquisitions include that we could overpay for acquired businesses, face integration challenges, have difficulty finding appropriate acquisition candidates, and any acquired business could significantly under-perform relative to our expectations. If acquisitions are not successfully integrated, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected as well as adversely impact our reputation. Our Board of Directors reviews our businesses, including acquired businesses, on an ongoing basis to assess how and to what extent they contribute to our strategic goals. Businesses that they determine are not strategic could be divested at any time. Our debt ratings are not considered investment grade. Our debt is rated by both Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s as below investment grade. This could impact our ability to raise capital in the future as well as increase borrowing costs. In addition, prospective clients and vendors may be less willing to do business with a provider with higher perceived credit risk or demand more onerous terms. We may incur additional non-cash goodwill impairment charges in the future. As described in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we test goodwill for impairment annually as of October 1 and at other times if events have occurred or circumstances exist that indicates the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable. During 2010, the Company recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $166.5. There can be no assurances that we will not incur charges in the future, particularly in the event of a prolonged economic slowdown. Our accounting for our long-term contracts requires using estimates and projections that may change over time. Such changes may have a significant or adverse effect on our reported results of operations and Consolidated Balance Sheet. Projecting contract profitability on our long-term outsourcing contracts requires us to make assumptions and estimates of future contract results. All estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to change. In an effort to maintain appropriate estimates, we review each of our long-term outsourcing contracts, the related contract reserves and intangible assets on a regular basis. If we determine that we need to change our estimates for a contract, we will change the estimates in the period in which the determination is made. These assumptions and estimates involve the exercise of judgment and discretion, which may also evolve over time in light of operational experience, regulatory direction, developments in accounting principles and other factors. Further, initially foreseen effects could change over time as a result of changes in assumptions, estimates or developments in the business or the application of accounting principles related to long-term outsourcing contracts. Any such changes may have a significant or adverse effect on our reported results of operations and Consolidated Balance Sheet. The outsourcing and consulting markets in which we operate include a large number of service providers and are highly competitive. Many of our competitors are expanding the services they offer in an attempt to gain additional business. In addition, new competitors, alliances among competitors or mergers of competitors could emerge and gain significant market share and some of our competitors may have or may develop a lower cost structure, adopt more aggressive pricing policies or provide services that gain greater market acceptance than the services that we offer or develop. Large and well-capitalized competitors may be able to better respond to the need for technological changes faster, price their services more aggressively, compete for skilled professionals, finance acquisitions, fund internal growth and compete for market share. In order to respond to increased competition and pricing pressure, we may have to lower our pricing structure, which would have an adverse effect on our revenues and profit margin. 16 Convergys Corporation 2010 Annual Report Table of Contents Items 1A. (continued), 1B., 2., 3. and 4. Our business performance and growth plans may be negatively affected if we are unable to effectively manage changes in the application and use of technology. The utilization of technology in our industry has and will continue to increase rapidly. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to develop and implement technology solutions that anticipate and keep pace with continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely and cost-effective basis, and our ideas may not be accepted in the marketplace. Additionally, the effort to gain technological expertise and develop new technologies in our business requires us to incur significant expenses. If we cannot offer new technologies as quickly as our competitors or if our competitors develop more cost-effective technologies, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and complete customer engagements. Also, if customer preferences for technology significantly disproportionately outpace other interaction preferences, it could have a material adverse impact on our revenue profile and growth plans. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 