Risk Factors We are exposed to general global economic and market conditions, particularly those impacting the communications industry. Developments in the communications industry, such as the impact of general global economic conditions, industry consolidation, emergence of new competitors, commoditization of voice services and changes in the regulatory environment, at times have had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our existing or potential customers. In the past, these conditions reduced the high growth rates that the communications industry had previously experienced, and caused the market value, financial results and prospects and capital spending levels of many communications companies to decline or degrade. During previous economic downturns, the communications industry experienced significant financial pressures that caused many in the industry to cut expenses and limit investment in capital intensive projects and, in some cases, led to restructurings and bankruptcies. Although we are unable to determine what its full effects will be, the current worldwide economic turmoil has had, and may have further, adverse consequences for our customers and our business. During adverse conditions in the business environment for communications companies, service providers often need to control operating expenses and capital investment budgets, which can adversely affect our business. For example, the recent business climate for communications companies has resulted in slowed customer buying decisions and price pressures that have increased pressure on our ability to generate revenue. These adverse market conditions have had a negative impact on our business by decreasing our new customer engagements and the size of initial spending commitments under those engagements, as well as decreasing the level of discretionary spending with existing customers. In addition, the slowdown in the buying decisions of service providers has extended our sales cycle period and limits our ability to forecast our flow of new contracts. If such adverse business conditions continue or arise again in the future, our business may be harmed. If we fail to adapt to changing market conditions and cannot compete successfully with existing or new competitors, our business could be harmed. We may be unable to compete successfully with existing or new competitors. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with established or new competitors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We face intense competition for the software products and services that we sell, including competition for managed services we provide to customers under long-term service agreements. These managed services include services such as management of datacenter operations and IT infrastructure, application management and ongoing support, systems modernization and consolidation and management of end-to-end business processes for billing and customer care operations. The market for communications information systems is highly competitive and fragmented, and we expect competition to continue to increase. We compete with independent software and service providers and with the in-house IT and network departments of communications companies. Our main competitors include firms that provide IT services (including consulting, systems integration and managed services), software vendors that sell products for particular aspects of a total information system, software vendors that specialize in systems for particular communications services (such as Internet, wireline and wireless services, cable, satellite and service bureaus) and network equipment providers that offer software systems in combination with the sale of network equipment. Since our 2006 acquisition of Qpass Inc., which we refer to as Qpass, we also compete with companies that provide digital commerce software and solutions. We believe that our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including: • the development by others of software products that are competitive with our products and services, • the price at which others offer competitive software and services, • the ability of competitors to deliver projects at a level of quality that rivals our own, 5 Table of Contents • the responsiveness of our competitors to customer needs, and • the ability of our competitors to hire, retain and motivate key personnel. A number of our competitors have long operating histories, large customer bases, substantial financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, and strong name recognition. Current and potential competitors have established, and may establish in the future, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their abilities to address the needs of our existing or prospective customers. In addition, our competitors have acquired, and may continue to acquire in the future, companies that may enhance their market offerings. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. As a result, our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors. If we fail to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with established or new competitors, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. If we do not continually enhance our products and service offerings, we may have difficulty retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. We believe that our future success will depend, to a significant extent, upon our ability to enhance our existing products and to introduce new products and features to meet the requirements of our customers in a rapidly developing and evolving market. We are currently devoting significant resources to refining and expanding our base software modules and to developing our customer experience systems. Our present or future products may not satisfy the evolving needs of the communications industry or of other industries that we serve. If we are unable to anticipate or respond adequately to such needs, due to resource, technological or other constraints, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Our business is dependent on a limited number of significant customers, and the loss of any one of our significant customers could harm our results of operations. Our business is dependent on a limited number of significant customers, of which AT&T was our largest in fiscal 2009, accounting for 33% of our revenue. In fiscal 2009, our two next largest customers were Bell Canada and Sprint Nextel, and certain of their subsidiaries, each of which accounted for approximately 10% of our revenue in fiscal 2009. Aggregate revenue derived from the multiple business arrangements we have with our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 76% of our revenue in fiscal 2009 and 75% of our revenue in fiscal 2008. The loss of any significant customer or a significant decrease in business from any such customer could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Revenue from individual customers may fluctuate from time to time based on the commencement and completion of projects, the timing of which may be affected by market conditions. Although we have received a substantial portion of our revenue from recurring business with established customers, many of our major customers do not have any obligation to purchase additional products or services from us and generally have already acquired fully paid licenses to their installed systems. Therefore, our customers may not continue to purchase new systems, system enhancements or services in amounts similar to previous years or may delay implementation of committed projects, each of which could reduce our revenue and profits. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop long-term relationships with our customers and to meet their expectations in providing products and performing services. We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to develop long-term relationships with successful network operators and service providers with the financial and other resources required to invest in significant ongoing customer experience systems. If we are unable to develop new customer relationships, our business will be harmed. In addition, our business and results of operations depend in part on our ability to provide high quality services to customers that have already implemented our 6 Table of Contents products. If we are unable to meet customers’ expectations in providing products or performing services, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We may seek to acquire companies or technologies that could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and adversely affect our results of operations. It is a part of our business strategy to pursue acquisitions and other initiatives in order to offer new products or services or otherwise enhance our market position or strategic strengths. Since 1999, we have completed numerous acquisitions, which, among other things, have expanded our business into customer management and billing solutions for broadband media cable and satellite companies, as well as digital commerce software and solutions, enhanced our offerings in the operational support systems, or OSS, market, and enabled us to provide integrated billing and customer care systems in high-growth emerging markets. In the future, we may acquire other companies that we believe will advance our business strategy. We cannot assure you that suitable future acquisition candidates can be found, that acquisitions can be consummated on favorable terms or that we will be able to complete otherwise favorable acquisitions because of antitrust or other regulatory concerns. We cannot assure you that the acquisitions we have completed, or any future acquisitions that we may make, will enhance our products or strengthen our competitive position. We also cannot assure you that we have identified, or will be able to identify, all material adverse issues related to the integration of our acquisitions, such as significant defects in the internal control policies of companies that we have acquired. In addition, our acquisitions could lead to difficulties in integrating acquired personnel and operations and in retaining and motivating key personnel from these businesses. Any failure to recognize significant defects in the internal control policies of acquired companies or to properly integrate and retain personnel may require a significant amount of time and resources to address. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and harm our results of operations or financial condition. The skilled and highly qualified workforce that we need to develop, implement and modify our solutions may be difficult to hire and retain, and we could face increased costs to attract and retain our skilled workforce. Our business operations depend in large part on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled information technology professionals, software programmers and communications engineers on a worldwide basis. In addition, our competitive success will depend on our ability to attract and retain other outstanding, highly qualified personnel. Because our software products are highly complex and are generally used by our customers to perform critical business functions, we depend heavily on skilled technology professionals. Skilled technology professionals are often in high demand and short supply. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified technology professionals to develop, implement and modify our solutions, we may be unable to meet the needs of our customers. In addition, if we were to obtain several new customers or implement several new large-scale projects in a short period of time, we may need to attract and train additional IT professionals at a rapid rate. We may face difficulties identifying and hiring qualified personnel. Our inability to hire and retain the appropriate personnel could increase our costs of retaining a skilled workforce and make it difficult for us to manage our operations, meet our commitments and compete for new customer contracts. In particular, wage costs in some of the countries in which we maintain development centers, such as Cyprus and India, have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the United States, Europe and Israel for comparably-skilled professionals, although such costs are increasing. We may need to increase the levels of our employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to remain competitive. As a result of our entry into the digital commerce space, we now compete for high quality employees in that space’s limited and competitive talent market. In addition, recent cost containment measures undertaken in response to current business conditions, such as the relocation of projects to lower costs countries, may lead to greater employee attrition and increase the cost of retaining our most skilled employees. The transition of 7 Table of Contents projects to new locations may also lead to business disruptions due to differing levels of employee knowledge, organizational and leadership skills. Our success will also depend, to a certain extent, upon the continued active participation of a relatively small group of senior management personnel. The loss of the services of all or some of these executives could harm our operations and impair our efforts to expand our business. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, and a decline in revenue in any quarter could result in lower profitability for that quarter and fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares. We have experienced fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and anticipate that such movements may continue. Fluctuations may result from many factors, including: • the size and timing of significant customer projects and license and service fees, • delays in or cancellations of significant projects by customers, • changes in operating expenses, • increased competition, • changes in our strategy, • personnel changes, • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and • general economic and political conditions. Generally, our combined license fee revenue and service fee revenue relating to customization, modification, implementation and integration are recognized as work is performed, using the percentage of completion method of accounting. Given our reliance on a limited number of significant customers, our quarterly results may be significantly affected by the size and timing of customer projects and our progress in completing such projects. We believe that the placement of customer orders may be concentrated in specific quarterly periods due to the time requirements and budgetary constraints of our customers. Although we recognize a significant portion of our revenue as projects are performed, progress may vary significantly from project to project, and we believe that variations in quarterly revenue are sometimes attributable to the timing of initial order placements. Due to the relatively fixed nature of certain of our costs, a decline of revenue in any quarter could result in lower profitability for that quarter. In addition, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could cause significant fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares. Our revenue, earnings and profitability are affected by the length of our sales cycle, and a longer sales cycle could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is directly affected by the length of our sales cycle. Information systems for communications companies are relatively complex and their purchase generally involves a significant commitment of capital, with attendant delays frequently associated with large capital expenditures and procurement procedures within an organization. The purchase of these types of products and services typically also requires coordination and agreement across many departments within a potential customer’s organization. Delays associated with such timing factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In periods of economic slowdown in the communications industry our typical sales cycle lengthens, which means that the average time between our initial contact with a prospective customer and the signing of a sales contract increases. The lengthening of our sales cycle could reduce growth in our revenue. In addition, the lengthening of our sales cycle contributes to an increased cost of sales, thereby reducing our profitability. 8 Table of Contents If the market for our products deteriorates, we may be required to reduce the scope of our operations, and if we fail to successfully plan and manage changes in the size of our operations, our business will suffer. Over the last several years, we have both grown and contracted our operations in order to profitably offer our products and services in a rapidly changing market. If we are unable to manage these changes and plan and manage any future changes in the size and scope of our operations, our business will suffer. For example, in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and the second quarter of fiscal 2007, we undertook measures designed to improve efficiency and to align our operational structure to our expected level of future activities. As part of these plans, we recorded expenses of $15.1 million in fiscal 2009, $12.1 million in fiscal 2008 and $6.0 million in fiscal 2007, consisting primarily of employee separation costs in connection with the termination of the employment of software and information technology specialists and administrative professionals at various locations around the world and, in fiscal 2007, for rent obligations. From time to time in the past, we have undertaken similar cost reduction measures. Restructurings and cost reduction measures that we have implemented from time to time have reduced the size of our operations and headcount, and acquisitions and organic growth have from time to time increased our headcount. Reductions in personnel can result in significant severance, administrative and legal expenses and may also adversely affect or delay various sales, marketing and product development programs and activities. Depending on market conditions in the communications industry and our business and financial needs, we may be forced to implement additional restructuring plans to further reduce our costs, which could result in additional restructuring charges. Additional restructuring charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. During periods of contraction, we have disposed of office space and related obligations in efforts to keep pace with the changing size of our operations and we may do so in the future. These cost reduction measures have included, and may in the future include, consolidating and/or relocating certain of our operations to different geographic locations. These activities could lead to difficulties and significant expenses related to subleasing or assigning any surplus space and retaining our base of skilled professionals. It is our policy to accrue the estimated expenses that will result from our restructuring efforts. However, if it is determined that the amount accrued is insufficient, an additional charge could have an unfavorable impact on our consolidated financial statements in the period this was determined. The current credit crisis may adversely affect our investment portfolio, other financial assets and our ability to secure additional credit availability. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term interest-bearing investments totaled $1,173.0 million as of September 30, 2009. Our policy is to retain substantial cash balances in order to support our growth. Our short-term investments consist primarily of money market funds, U.S. government treasuries, U.S. agency securities and government guaranteed debt. Although we believe that we generally adhere to conservative investment guidelines, recent market turmoil has resulted in immaterial impairments of the carrying value of certain of our investment assets. Continuing adverse market conditions may lead to additional impairments. Realized or unrealized losses in our investments or in our other financial assets may adversely affect our financial condition. Bank failures or closings or further declines in the financial condition of U.S. or European banks or other financial institutions may adversely affect our normal financial operations, as well as our ability to secure additional credit facilities, if needed. The unavailability of additional credit may prevent us from executing our future business plans, including potential acquisitions. We may be exposed to the credit risk of customers that have been adversely affected by weakened markets. We typically sell our software and related services as part of long-term projects. During the life of a project, a customer’s budgeting constraints can impact the scope of a project and the customer’s ability to 9 Table of Contents make required payments. In addition, adverse general business conditions may degrade the creditworthiness of our customers over time, and we can be adversely affected by bankruptcies or other business failures. Our international presence exposes us to risks associated with varied and changing political, cultural, legal and economic conditions worldwide. We are affected by risks associated with conducting business internationally. We maintain development facilities in China, Cyprus, India, Ireland, Israel and the United States, operate a support center in Brazil and have operations in North America, Europe, Latin America and the Asia-Pacific region. Although a substantial majority of our revenue is derived from customers in North America and Europe, we obtain significant revenue from customers in the Asia-Pacific region and Latin America. Our strategy is to continue to broaden our North American and European customer bases and to expand into new international markets. Conducting business internationally exposes us to certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: • lack of acceptance of non-localized products, • legal and cultural differences in the conduct of business, • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, • longer payment cycles, • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and withholding taxes that limit the repatriation of earnings, • trade barriers, • difficulties in complying with varied legal and regulatory requirements across jurisdictions, • immigration regulations that limit our ability to deploy our employees, • political instability and threats of terrorism, and • variations in effective income tax rates among countries where we conduct business. One or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations expose us to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our business. Although we have operations throughout the world, approximately 70% to 80% of our revenue and approximately 50% to 60% of our operating costs are denominated in, or linked to, the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, we consider the U.S. dollar to be our functional currency. However, approximately 40% to 50% of our operating costs in fiscal 2009 were incurred outside the United States in other currencies. Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates between the currencies in which such costs are incurred and the dollar may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. From time to time we may experience increases in the costs of our operations outside the United States, as expressed in dollars, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, during fiscal 2008, we recognized $18.9 million in foreign exchange losses under interest (expense) income and other, net, mainly due to the significant revaluation of assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies attributable to the rapid and significant foreign exchange rate changes associated with global economic turbulence beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. Although our foreign exchange losses were less significant in fiscal 2009, we believe that foreign exchange rates may continue to present challenges in future periods. In addition, a portion of our revenue (approximately 20% to 30% in fiscal 2009) is not incurred in dollars or linked to the dollar, and, therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates between the dollar and the currencies in 10 Table of Contents which such revenue is incurred may have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If more of our customers seek contracts that are denominated in currencies such as the euro and not the dollar, our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates could increase. We do not hedge all of our exposure in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, but rather our policy is to hedge significant net exposures in the major foreign currencies in which we operate, and we generally hedge our net currency exposure with respect to expected revenue and operating costs and certain balance sheet items. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively limit all of our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. The imposition of exchange or price controls or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Political and economic conditions in the Middle East and other countries may adversely affect our business. Of the development centers we maintain worldwide, our two largest development centers are located in Israel and India. In Israel, the centers are located in three different sites throughout Israel, and approximately 23% of our software and information technology workforce is located in Israel. As a result, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel and its neighboring regions. Any major hostilities involving Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have developed contingency plans to provide ongoing services to our customers in the event that escalated political or military conditions disrupt our normal operations. These plans include the transfer of some development operations within Israel to various of our other sites both within and outside of Israel. If we have to implement these plans, our operations would be disrupted and we would incur significant additional expenditures, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. While Israel has entered into peace agreements with both Egypt and Jordan, Israel has not entered into peace arrangements with any other neighboring countries. Over the past several years there has been a significant deterioration in Israel’s relationship with the Palestinian Authority and a related increase in violence, including recent hostilities related to Lebanon and the Gaza Strip. Efforts to resolve the problem have failed to result in a permanent solution. Continued violence between the Palestinian community and Israel may have a material adverse effect on our business. Further deterioration of relations with the Palestinian Authority might require more military reserve service by some of our workforce, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. In 2004, we established a development center in India, and since 2005, we have expanded our operations in India, China and the Commonwealth of Independent States (including Russia). Conducting business in each of these countries involves unique challenges, including political instability, threats of terrorism, the transparency, consistency and effectiveness of business regulation, the protection of intellectual property, and the availability of sufficient qualified local personnel. Any of these or other challenges associated with operating in these countries may adversely affect our business or operations. We have development and other facilities at multiple locations in India, and approximately 28% of our software and information technology workforce is located in India. Recent terrorist activity in India and Pakistan has contributed to tensions between those countries and our operations in India may be adversely affected by future political and other events in the region. In addition, our development facility in Cyprus may be adversely affected by political conditions in that country. As a result of intercommunal strife between the Greek and Turkish communities, Turkish troops invaded Cyprus in 1974 and continue to occupy approximately 40% of the island. Despite the admission of Cyprus into the European Union and recent improvements in the relations between the parties, discussions facilitated by the United Nations, the European Union and the United States have not resulted in a plan of reunification for Cyprus. Major hostilities between Cyprus and Turkey could have a material adverse effect on our development facility in Cyprus. 11 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology from misappropriation, our business may be harmed. Any misappropriation of our technology or the development of competitive technology could seriously harm our business. Our software and software systems are largely comprised of software and systems we have developed or acquired and that we regard as proprietary. We rely upon a combination of trademarks, patents, contractual rights, trade secret law, copyrights, non-disclosure agreements and other methods to protect our proprietary rights. We enter into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with our customers, workforce and marketing representatives and with certain contractors with access to sensitive information, and we also limit our customer access to the source codes of our software and our software systems. However, we generally do not include in our software any mechanisms to prevent or inhibit unauthorized use. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate. If so, we might not be able to prevent others from using what we regard as our technology to compete with us. Existing trade secret, copyright and trademark laws offer only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary technology or allow enforcement of confidentiality covenants to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If we have to resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, the proceedings could be burdensome, protracted and expensive and could involve a high degree of risk. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could harm our business. Our software and software systems are the results of long and complex development processes, and, although our technology is not significantly dependent on patents or licenses from third parties, certain aspects of our products make use of readily available software components that we license from third parties, including our employees and contractors. As a developer of complex software systems, third parties may claim that portions of our systems violate their intellectual property rights. The ability to develop and use our software and software systems requires knowledge and professional experience that we believe is unique to us and would be very difficult for others to independently obtain, however, our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. We expect that software developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors providing software and services to the communications industry increases and overlaps occur. Any claim of infringement by a third party could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim and could distract our management from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from selling our products or offering our services, or prevent a customer from continuing to use our products. Additionally, since our 2006 acquisition of Qpass, we support service providers and media companies with respect to digital content services, which could subject us to claims related to such services. If anyone asserts a claim against us relating to proprietary technology or information, we might seek to license their intellectual property. We might not, however, be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms or on any terms. In addition, any efforts to develop non-infringing technology could be unsuccessful. Our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights or to develop non-infringing technology could prevent us from selling our products and could therefore seriously harm our business. Product defects or software errors could adversely affect our business. Design defects or software errors may cause delays in product introductions or damage customer satisfaction and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our software products are highly complex and may, from time to time, contain design defects or software errors that may be difficult to detect and correct. Because our products are generally used by our customers to perform critical business functions, design defects, software errors, misuse of our products, incorrect data from external sources or other potential 12 Table of Contents problems within or outside of our control may arise from the use of our products, and may result in financial or other damages to our customers, for which we may be held responsible. Although we have license agreements with our customers that contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential claims and liabilities arising from customer problems, these provisions may not effectively protect us against such claims in all cases and in all jurisdictions. In addition, as a result of business and other considerations, we may undertake to compensate our customers for damages caused to them arising from the use of our products, even if our liability is limited by a license or other agreement. Claims and liabilities arising from customer problems could also damage our reputation, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition and the ability to obtain “Errors and Omissions” insurance. System disruptions and failures may result in customer dissatisfaction, customer loss or both, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation and business. Our systems are an integral part of our customers’ business operations. The continued and uninterrupted performance of these systems by our customers is critical to our success. Customers may become dissatisfied by any system failure that interrupts our ability to provide services to them. Sustained or repeated system failures would reduce the attractiveness of our services significantly and could result in decreased demand for our products and services. Our ability to perform managed services depends on our ability to protect our computer systems against damage from fire, power loss, water damage, telecommunications failures, earthquake, terrorism attack, vandalism and similar unexpected adverse events. Despite our efforts to implement network security measures, our systems are also vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. We do not carry enough business interruption insurance to compensate for any significant losses that may occur as a result of any of these events. We have experienced systems outages and service interruptions in the past. To date, these outages have not had a material adverse effect on us. However, in the future, a prolonged system-wide outage or frequent outages could cause harm to our reputation and could cause our customers to make claims against us for damages allegedly resulting from an outage or interruption. Any damage or failure that interrupts or delays our operations could result in material harm to our business and expose us to material liabilities. The termination or reduction of certain government programs and tax benefits could adversely affect our overall effective tax rate. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate of 10.9% for the year ended September 30, 2009 will not change over time as a result of changes in corporate income tax rates, or other changes in the tax laws of Guernsey, the jurisdiction in which our holding company is organized, or of the various countries in which we operate. We have benefited or currently benefit from a variety of government programs and tax benefits that generally carry conditions that we must meet in order to be eligible to obtain any benefit. For example, through subsidiaries, we operate development centers and a business processing operations center in India. In 2009, the corporation tax rate applicable in India on trading activities was 34%. Our subsidiaries in India operate under specific favorable tax entitlements that are based upon pre-approved information technology related services activity. As a result, our subsidiaries in Pune are entitled to considerable corporate income tax reductions that reduce their current applicable tax rate to 17%, and our newly-established subsidiary in Delhi is currently entitled to a tax exemption. Such favorable tax treatment is applied, where applicable, on all income derived from such pre-approved information technology activity, provided the subsidiaries continue to meet the conditions required for such tax benefits. The benefits applicable to our subsidiaries based in Pune are scheduled to expire on April 1, 2011 and the benefits applicable to our Delhi subsidiary are scheduled to phase out over 15 years from the subsidiary’s establishment. Proposed changes in Indian tax law may reduce or eliminate the availability of the noted beneficial tax rates for our Indian subsidiaries. Please see “Item 10 — Additional Information — Taxation — Certain Indian Tax Considerations” for more information. 13 Table of Contents If we fail to meet the conditions upon which certain favorable tax treatment is based, we would not be able to claim future tax benefits and could be required to refund tax benefits already received. In addition, any of the following could have a material effect on our overall effective tax rate: • some tax benefit programs may be limited in duration or may be discontinued, • we may be unable to meet the requirements for continuing to qualify for some programs, • these programs and tax benefits may be unavailable at their current levels, or • upon expiration of a particular benefit, we may not be eligible to participate in a new program or qualify for a new tax benefit that would offset the loss of the expiring tax benefit. The market price of our ordinary shares has and may continue to fluctuate widely. The market price of our ordinary shares has fluctuated widely and may continue to do so. From September 30, 2007 to November 30, 2009, our ordinary shares have traded as high as $38.03 and as low as $14.61 per share. As of November 30, 2009, the closing price of our ordinary shares was $26.43 per share. Many factors could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to rise and fall, including: • market conditions in the industry and the economy as a whole, • variations in our quarterly operating results, • changes in our backlog levels, • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors, • introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or our competitors, • trends in the communications or software industries, including industry consolidation, • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or others in our industry, • changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations by financial analysts, • changes in our shareholder base, and • political developments in the Middle East or other areas of the world. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. In the past, market fluctuations have, from time to time, particularly affected the market prices of the securities of many high technology companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. It may be difficult for our shareholders to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against us or our affiliates. We are incorporated under the laws of the Island of Guernsey and a majority of our directors and executive officers are not citizens or residents of the United States. A significant portion of our assets and the assets of those persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process upon us within the United States or upon such persons outside their jurisdiction of residence. Also, we have been advised that there is doubt as to the enforceability in Guernsey of judgments of the U.S. courts of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the laws of the United States, including the federal securities laws. 14 Table of Contents 