ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks and the value of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. This annual report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this report. We may experience significant fluctuations in our revenues, operating results, growth rate, and stock price. Our quarterly and annual revenues, operating results, and growth rate have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to do so in the future due to a variety of factors, some of which are outside our control. As a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of our revenue and operating results are not necessarily meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be accurate indicators of future performance. If our annual or quarterly operating results fail to meet the guidance we provide to securities analysts and investors or otherwise fail to meet their expectations the trading price of our common stock may be impacted. The stock market as a whole and the trading prices of companies in the electronic commerce industry in particular, has been notably volatile. The operating results of companies in the electronic commerce industry 13 Table of Contents have experienced significant quarter-to-quarter fluctuations. This broad market and industry volatility could significantly reduce the price of our common stock at any time, without regard to our own operating performance. In addition, our stock price may be impacted by the short sales and actions of other parties who may disseminate misleading information about us in an effort to profit from fluctuations in our stock price. Factors that may affect our revenues, operating results, continued growth, and our stock price include the risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A, as well as the following: • Client Development and Retention. We generate revenue by providing services to a wide variety of companies, primarily in the software and high-tech products markets. Therefore, it is important to our ongoing success that we maintain our key client relationships and, at the same time, develop new client relationships. If we cannot develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with software and digital products publishers, manufacturers of consumer electronics and other goods, online retailers and online channel partners on acceptable commercial terms, we will likely experience a decline in revenue and operating profit. We also depend on our clients creating and supporting products that consumers will purchase. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of products for any reason, or if the quality of service provided by these publishers and manufacturers falls below a satisfactory level, we could also experience a decline in revenue, operating profit and consumer satisfaction, and our reputation could be harmed. Our contracts with our clients are generally one to two years in duration, with an automatic renewal provision for additional one-year periods, unless we are provided with a written notice before the end of the contract. We have no material long-term or exclusive contracts or arrangements with any clients that guarantee the availability of products. Clients that currently supply products to us may not continue to do so, and we may be unable to establish new relationships with clients to supplement or replace existing relationships. Sales of products for one client, Symantec Corporation, accounted for approximately 24.3% of our revenue in 2008. In addition, revenues derived from proprietary Digital River services sold to Symantec consumers and sales of Symantec products through our oneNetworkDirecttm retail and affiliate channel together accounted for approximately 9.4% of total Digital River revenue in 2008. In addition, a limited number of other software and physical goods clients contribute a large portion of our annual revenue. If any one of these key contracts is not renewed or otherwise terminates, or if revenues from these clients decline for any other reason (such as competitive developments), our revenue would decline and our ability to sustain profitability would be impaired. If our contract with Symantec is not renewed, renegotiated or otherwise terminated, or if revenues from Symantec and Symantec-related services decline for any other reason, our revenue and our ability to sustain profitability could be materially adversely impaired. • Fluctuations in Demand. Our quarterly and annual operating results are subject to fluctuations in demand for the products or services offered by us or our clients, such as anti-virus software and anti-spyware software and consumer electronics. In particular, sales of anti-virus software represented a significant portion of our revenues in recent years, and continue to be very important to our business. Demand for anti-virus software is subject to the unpredictable introduction of significant computer viruses. To the extent that software publishers successfully introduce products or services not sold through our platform that are competitive with the products and services offered by our current clients (including anti-virus products and services), our revenues could be materially adversely affected. In addition, revenue generated by our software and digital commerce services is likely to fluctuate on a seasonal basis that is typical for the software publishing market, consumer electronics market, and computer and video games markets. Softening or weakening of traditionally high-volume periods, such as the holiday season, can materially adversely affect our revenues and operating results. • Changes in the E-commerce Industry. The nature of our business and the e-commerce industry in which we operate has undergone, and continues to undergo, rapid development and change. Thus, our chances of financial and operational success should be evaluated in light of the risks, uncertainties, expenses, delays and difficulties associated with operating a business in a relatively rapidly changing industry. If we are unable to address these issues, we may not be financially or operationally successful. 14 Table of Contents • Dependence on Key Personnel. Our future success significantly depends on our ability to continue to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled personnel, including the continued services and performance of our senior management. Competition for these personnel is intense, particularly in the Internet industry. Our performance also depends on our ability to retain and motivate our key technical employees who are skilled in maintaining our proprietary technology platforms. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could harm our business if we are unable to effectively replace that officer or employee, or if that person should decide to join a competitor or otherwise directly or indirectly compete with us. Further, we may need to incur additional operating expenses and divert other management time in order to search for a replacement. • Operating Expenses. Our operating expenses are based on our expectations of future revenue. These expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term. If our revenue for a quarter falls below our expectations and we are unable to quickly reduce spending in response, our operating results for that quarter would be harmed. • Infrastructure. The introduction by us of new websites, web stores or services, and the continued upgrading, development and maintenance of our systems and infrastructure to meet emerging market needs, leverage technical innovations, and remain competitive in our service and product offerings, may require a substantial investment of our resources and result in significant capital expenditures and operating costs. • Other Factors. Additional factors that may affect our revenues, operating results, continued growth, and our stock price include: • Competitive developments, including the introduction of new products and services and the announcement of new client and strategic relationships by our competitors; • General macroeconomic conditions, including severe downturns or recessions in the United States and elsewhere, global unrest, terrorist activities, and particularly those economic conditions affecting the e-commerce and retailer industries; • Changes that affect our clients or the viability of their product lines, and client decisions to delay new product launches or to invest in e-commerce initiatives; • Conditions or trends in the Internet and online commerce industries in the United States and around the world, including slower-than-anticipated growth of the online market as a vehicle for the purchase of software products, changes in consumer confidence in the safety and security of online commerce, and changes in the usage of the Internet and e-commerce; • The cost of compliance with U.S. and foreign laws, rules and regulations relating to our business, including the potential effect of new laws, rules and regulations, or interpretations of existing laws, rules and regulations, that affect our business operations or otherwise restrict or affect online commerce and/or the Internet as a whole, as well as our compliance with the rules and policies of entities whose services are critical for our continued operations, such as banks and credit card associations; • Our announcement of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments or results of operations or other developments related to those acquisitions, and our ability to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses; • Required changes in generally accepted accounting principles and disclosures; and • Sales or other transactions involving our common stock or our convertible notes. Failure to properly manage and sustain our expansion efforts could strain our management and other resources. Through acquisitions and organic growth, we are rapidly and significantly expanding our operations, both domestically and internationally. We will continue to expand further to pursue growth of our service offerings 15 Table of Contents and customer base. This expansion increases the complexity of our business and places a significant strain on our management, operations, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage it effectively. Our personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to effectively manage our future operations, especially as we employ personnel in multiple domestic and international locations. We may not be able to hire, train, retain and manage the personnel required to address our growth. Failure to effectively manage our growth opportunities could damage our reputation, limit our future growth, negatively affect our operating results and harm our business. Our international expansion efforts may not be successful in generating additional revenue. We sell products and services to consumers outside the United States and we intend to continue expanding our international presence. In 2008, our sales to international consumers represented approximately 42.8% of our total sales. Expansion into international markets, particularly the European and Asia-Pacific regions, requires significant resources that we may fail to recover through generating additional revenue. Conducting business outside of the United States is subject to risks, including: • Changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs; • Uncertainty of application of local commercial, tax, privacy and other laws and regulations; • Reduced protection of intellectual property rights; • Difficulties in physical distribution for international sales; • Higher incidences of credit card fraud and difficulties in accounts receivable collection; • The burden and cost of complying with a variety of foreign laws, rules and regulations; • The possibility of unionization of our workforce outside the United States, particularly in Europe; • Political, social and economic instability and constraints on international trade; and • Import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and every other country in which we operate. Any of the factors described above, as well as other risks of doing business outside the United States, may have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase or maintain foreign sales. We may be unable to successfully and cost-effectively market, sell and distribute our services in foreign markets. Doing so may be more difficult or take longer than anticipated especially due to international challenges, such as language barriers, currency exchange issues and the fact that the Internet infrastructure in some foreign countries may be less advanced than the U.S. Internet infrastructure. If we are unable to successfully expand our international operations, or manage this expansion, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. New obligations to collect or pay transaction taxes could substantially increase the cost to us of doing business. Many of the laws and regulations regarding the application of sales, use, value added tax (VAT) or other similar transaction taxes predate the growth of the Internet and online commerce. The application of transaction taxes to interstate and international sales over the Internet is complex and evolving. We currently collect taxes with respect to electronic software download and physical delivery of products in tax jurisdictions where we have taxable presence. A successful assertion by one or more tax jurisdictions that we should collect or were obligated to collect transaction taxes on the products we sell could harm our results of operations. The imposition by state and local governments of various taxes upon Internet commerce and related e-commerce activities could create administrative burdens for us, put us at a competitive disadvantage if they do not impose similar obligations on all of our online competitors, and decrease our future sales. 16 Table of Contents We could be liable for fraudulent, improper or illegal uses of our platforms and services. In recent years revenues from our “remote control” platforms have grown as a percentage of our overall business, and we plan to continue to emphasize our self service e-commerce solutions. These platforms typically have an automated structure that allows customers to sign up for and use our e-commerce services without significant participation from Digital River personnel. Despite our efforts to contractually prohibit the sale of inappropriate and illegal goods and services and our efforts to detect the same, the remote control nature of these platforms increases the risk that transactions involving the sale of unlawful goods or services or the violation of the proprietary rights of others may occur before we become aware of them. Furthermore, unscrupulous individuals may offer for sale, or attempt to purchase, illegal products via such platforms under innocuous names, further frustrating our attempts to prevent inappropriate use of our services. Failure to detect inappropriate or illegal uses of our platforms by third parties could expose us to a number of risks, including fines, increased fees or termination of services by payment processors or credit card associations, risks of lawsuits, and civil and criminal penalties. Loss of our credit card acceptance privileges, or changes to payment networks, fees, rules or practices, would seriously hamper our ability to process the sale of merchandise. The payment by consumers for the purchase of digital or physical goods that we process is typically made by credit card or similar payment method. As a result, we must rely on banks or payment processors to process transactions, and must pay a fee for this service. From time to time, credit card associations may increase the interchange fees that they charge for each transaction using one of their cards. Any such increased fees will increase our operating costs and reduce our profit margins. We also are required by our processors to comply with credit card association operating rules, and we have agreed to reimburse our processors for any fines they are assessed by credit card associations as a result of processing payments for us. The credit card associations and their member banks set and interpret the credit card rules. Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover, or other card associations could adopt new operating rules or re-interpret existing rules that we, or our processors, might find difficult to follow. We have had payment processing agreements with certain of our payment processors terminated due to violations of their rules, and although we have been able to successfully migrate to new processors, such migrations require significant attention from our personnel, and often result in higher fees and customer dissatisfaction. Any disputes or problems associated with our payment processors could impair our ability to give customers the option of using credit cards to fund their payments. If we were unable to accept credit cards or other widely accepted forms of payment, our business would be seriously damaged. We also could be subject to fines or increased fees from MasterCard and Visa if we fail to detect that merchants are engaging in activities that are illegal or activities that are considered “high risk,” primarily the sale of certain types of digital content. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to monitor these activities. Implementing our acquisition strategy could result in dilution and operating difficulties leading to a decline in revenue and operating profit. A key element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. Between January 1, 1999 and December 31, 2008, we acquired 30 companies. We continually evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combination transactions, strategic partnerships, and the purchase or sale of assets, including tangible and intangible assets such as intellectual property. We have acquired, and intend to continue engaging in strategic acquisitions of businesses, technologies, services and products. Since December 2007, we have acquired three businesses, IA Users Club d.b.a. CustomCD, Inc., DigitalSwift Corporation, and THINK Subscription, Inc. Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions, typically entail many risks, and could result in unforeseen difficulties and expenditures in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses. We have in the past and may in the future experience delays in the timing and successful integration of an acquired company’s technologies and 17 Table of Contents product development, unanticipated costs and expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, or contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. Integration of an acquired business also may disrupt our ongoing business, distract management and make it difficult to maintain standards, controls and procedures. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases. Furthermore, these challenges would be even greater if we acquired a business or entered into a business combination transaction with a company that was larger and more difficult to integrate than the companies we have historically acquired. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition may not be realized. If a significant number of clients of the acquired businesses cease doing business with us, we would experience lost revenue and operating profit, and any synergies from the acquisition may be lost. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. The acquisition of another company or its products and technologies may also require us to enter into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization of intangible assets or impairment of goodwill. Acquisitions could also result in a dilutive impact to our earnings. We may need to raise additional capital to achieve our business objectives, which could result in dilution to existing investors or increase our debt obligations. We require substantial working capital to fund our business. In January 2005, we filed a registration statement to increase our available shelf registration amount and we have $82 million available for future use. In addition, we filed an acquisition shelf for up to approximately 1.5 million shares. In February 2006, we filed a shelf registration that would allow us to sell an undetermined amount of equity or debt securities in accordance with the recently approved rules applying to “well-known seasoned issuers.” If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced and these equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. In June 2004, we issued 1.25% convertible notes which require us to make interest payments and will require us to pay principal when the notes become due in 2024 or in the event of acceleration under certain circumstances, unless the notes are converted into our common stock prior to that. On January 5, 2009, we announced that holders of 95.5% of these notes exercised the option to require us to repurchase those notes on January 2, 2009, at a purchase price of 100.25% of the principal amount of each tendered note for a total of approximately $187.9 million, which includes accrued interest of $1.2 million. Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $8,805,000 remain outstanding. For a thirty day period ending January 1, 2014, the remaining note holders have the right to have the debt redeemed at 100.25% of principal face amount. We may not have sufficient capital to service this or any future debt securities that we may issue, further, the conversion of the remaining notes into our common stock would result in further dilution to our stockholders. Our capital requirements depend on several factors, including the rate of market acceptance of our products, the ability to expand our client base, the growth of sales and marketing, and opportunities for acquisitions of other businesses. We have experienced significant operating losses and negative cash flow from operations during our operating history and may do so in the future. Additional financing may not be available when needed, on terms favorable to us or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to develop or enhance our services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which would harm our operating results and adversely affect our ability to sustain profitability. Security breaches could hinder our ability to securely transmit confidential information and could materially affect our reputation, business operations, operating results and financial condition. Our business depends in large part on the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including customers’ credit card and other payment account information, and the secure storage of confidential information. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary for secure transmission of confidential information, such as customer credit and debit card numbers. While we take significant steps to protect the security of confidential information in our possession, we cannot guarantee our security measures will prevent security breaches, or that future advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new cryptography tools 18 Table of Contents and discoveries, and other events will enable us to prevent the breach or compromise of our security even if implemented by us. Further, the technology utilized in credit and debit cards, and the systems used for the transmission of payment card transactions, are controlled by the payment card industry, and vulnerabilities in these systems and technology can place payment card data at risk. Any breach or compromise of our security could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition, dissuade existing and new clients from using our services, dissuade customers from transacting business through our systems, and expose us to significant costs, fines, losses, litigation, governmental investigations, and liabilities. A party who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or interrupt our operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or address problems caused by such breaches. Concerns over the security of the Internet and other online transactions and the privacy of users could deter people from using the Internet to conduct transactions that involve transmitting personally identifiable and other confidential information, thereby inhibiting the growth of our business. Protecting our intellectual property is critical to our success. We regard the protection of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, service mark and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights. We have entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and nondisclosure agreements with parties with whom we conduct business, in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. These contractual arrangements and the other steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of our technology or deter independent third-party development of similar technologies. We also seek to protect our proprietary position by filing U.S. patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. Proprietary rights relating to our technologies will be protected from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We pursue the registration of our trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. However, effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are made available online. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate and third parties may infringe or misappropriate our trade secrets, trademarks and similar proprietary rights. Any significant failure on our part to protect our intellectual property could make it easier for our competitors to offer similar services and thereby adversely affect our market opportunities. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources. Claims against us related to infringement of other parties’ intellectual property rights, or the products we deliver, could require us to expend significant resources, enter into unfavorable licenses or require us to change our business plans. From time to time, we are named as a defendant in lawsuits claiming that we have, in some way, violated the intellectual property rights of others. From time to time we are notified of several potential patent disputes, and expect that we will increasingly be subject to the assertion of patent infringement claims against us as our services expand in scope and complexity. Any assertions or prosecutions of claims like these could require us to expend significant financial and managerial resources. The defense of any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, cause product enhancement delays or require that we develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely basis, we may be unable to pursue our current business plan. We expect that we will increasingly be subject to patent 19 Table of Contents infringement claims as our services expand in scope and complexity, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may become more vulnerable to third party claims as laws such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the Lanham Act and the Communications Decency Act are interpreted by the courts. Claims may be made against us for negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, products liability or other theories based on the nature and content of software products or tangible goods that we deliver electronically and physically. Because we did not create these products, we are generally not in a position to know the quality or nature of the content of these products. Although we carry general liability insurance and require that our customers indemnify us against consumer claims, our insurance and indemnification measures may not cover potential claims of this type, may not adequately cover all costs incurred in defense of potential claims, or may not reimburse us for all liability that may be imposed. Any costs or imposition of liability that are not covered by insurance or indemnification measures could be expensive and time-consuming to address, distract management and delay product deliveries, even if we are ultimately successful in the defense of these claims. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As a result, we cannot assure you that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules proclaimed after that. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. Political and economic conditions, and current turmoil in United States and global markets, may adversely affect our revenue and results of operations, and stock price. Our revenue and growth is dependent on the continued growth in demand for our clients’ products. Therefore, our operations and performance depend significantly on general geopolitical economic and business conditions, conditions in the financial services markets, the overall demand for consumer goods and services, 20 Table of Contents and general political and economic developments. A decrease in demand for our clients’ products, whether due to conditions in the economies where we sell products or changes in consumer spending resulting from the macroeconomic and political climate, could result in a decline in our revenue and impair our ability to sustain profitability. The effect of the macroeconomic and political climate could also negatively impact our clients, such as causing delays in new product introductions, changes in client’s outsourcing behavior, increasing our difficulty in collecting client receivables, and increasing the risk of client bankruptcies and/or interruption or cessation of business, which may have a negative impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Recent turmoil in U.S. and foreign credit markets, equity markets, and in the global financial services industry, including the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions, the tightening in credit markets, and an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. and foreign governments, may continue to place pressure on the global economy and affect overall consumer spending and the availability of credit to us, our clients, and our customers. This turmoil increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments and investments may significantly differ from the fair values currently assigned to them. If conditions in the global economy, U.S. economy or other key vertical or geographic markets remain uncertain or weaken further, they may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Continued uncertainty in general geopolitical economic and business conditions may result in increased or continued volatility in our stock price. Because the e-commerce industry is highly competitive and has low barriers to entry, we may be unable to compete effectively. The market for e-commerce solutions is extremely competitive and we may find ourselves unable to compete effectively. Because there are relatively low barriers to entry in the e-commerce market, we expect continued intense competition as current competitors expand their product offerings and new competitors enter the market. In addition, our clients and partners may become competitors in the future. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced margins, longer sales cycles and a decrease or loss of our market share, any of which could negatively impact our revenue and earnings. We face competition from the following sources: • In-house development of e-commerce capabilities using tools or applications from companies, such as Art Technology Group, Inc. and IBM Corporation; • E-Commerce capabilities custom-developed by companies, such as IBM Global Services and Accenture, Inc.; • Other providers of outsourced e-commerce solutions, such as GSI Commerce, Inc., and asknet Inc.; • Companies that provide technologies, services or products that support a portion of the e-commerce process, such as payment processing, including CyberSource Corporation and PayPal Corp.; • Companies that offer various online marketing services, technologies and products, including ValueClick, Inc. and aQuantive, Inc.; • High-traffic, branded websites that generate a substantial portion of their revenue from e-commerce and may offer or provide to others the means to offer their products for sale, such as Amazon.com, Inc.; and • Web hosting, web services and infrastructure companies that offer portions of our solution and are seeking to expand the range of their offering, such as Network Solutions, LLC, Akamai Technologies, Inc., Yahoo!, Inc., eBay, Inc. and Hostopia.com, Inc. We believe that the principal competitive factors for a participant in our market are the breadth of products and services offered, proven global platforms, the number of clients and online channel partnerships a participant has, brand recognition, system reliability and scalability, price, customer service, ease of use, speed to market, convenience and quality of delivery. The online channel partners and the other companies described above may compete directly with us by adopting a similar business model. Moreover, while some of these 21 Table of Contents companies also are clients or potential clients of ours, they may compete with our e-commerce outsourcing solution to the extent that they develop e-commerce systems or acquire such systems from other software vendors or service providers. Many of our competitors have, and new potential competitors may have, more experience developing Internet-based software and e-commerce solutions, larger technical staffs, larger customer bases, more established distribution channels and customer relationships, greater brand recognition and greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. In addition, competitors may be able to develop services that are superior to our services, achieve greater customer acceptance or have significantly improved functionality as compared to our existing and future products and services. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to technological developments and changes in customers’ needs. Our inability to compete successfully against current and future competitors could cause our revenue and earnings to decline. Compliance with laws, rules and regulations, and changes in applicable laws, rules and regulations, may substantially increase our costs of doing business, limit our Internet activities, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to offer our services. We are subject to the same international, federal, state and local laws as other companies conducting business over the Internet. We are subject to United States laws governing the conduct of business with other countries, such as export control laws, which prohibit or restrict the export of goods, services and technology to designated countries, denied persons or denied entities from the United States. Violation of these laws could result in fines or other actions by regulatory agencies and result in increased costs of doing business and reduced profits. In addition, any significant changes in these laws, particularly an expansion in export control laws, will increase our costs of compliance and may further restrict our overseas client base. Because our services are accessible worldwide, and we facilitate sales of products to customers worldwide, international jurisdictions may claim that we are required to comply with their laws. Laws regulating Internet companies outside of the United States may be less favorable than those in the United States, giving greater rights to consumers, content owners and users. Compliance with international, federal, state and local laws may be costly or may require us to change our business practices or restrict our service offerings relative to those provided in the United States. Any failure to comply with foreign laws could subject us to penalties ranging from fines to bans on our ability to offer our services. As our services are available over the Internet in multiple states and foreign countries, these jurisdictions may claim that we are required to qualify to do business as a foreign corporation in each state or foreign country. We and/or our subsidiaries are qualified to do business only in certain states. Failure to qualify as a foreign corporation in a required jurisdiction could subject us to taxes and penalties and could result in our inability to enforce contracts in these jurisdictions. Today, there are relatively few laws specifically directed towards conducting business over the Internet. The adoption or modification of laws related to the Internet could harm our business, operating results and financial condition by increasing our costs and administrative burdens. Due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet, many laws and regulations relating to the Internet are being debated at the international, federal and state levels. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as: • User privacy with respect to adults and minors; • Our ability to collect and/or share necessary information that allows us to conduct business on the Internet; • Export compliance; • Pricing, taxation, and regulatory fees; • Fraud; • Advertising; • Intellectual property rights; • Information security; • Quality of products and services; 22 Table of Contents • Taxes; and • Recycling of consumer products. Applicability to the Internet of existing laws, rules and regulations governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel, obscenity and personal privacy, continue to be interpreted by the courts, and the applicability and reach of such laws are therefore uncertain. The vast majority of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet, and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised thereby. Developments in the applicability of existing laws, rules and regulations, and the impact of new laws, rules and regulations, to our business could harm our operating results and substantially increase the cost to us of doing business. Any change in laws, rules or regulations applicable to the Internet and to our business might require significant management and other resources to respond appropriately. We are subject to regulations relating to consumer privacy. We collect and maintain customer data from our customers, which subjects us to increasing international, federal and state regulations related to online privacy and the use of personal user information. Congress has enacted anti-SPAM legislation with which we must comply when providing email campaigns for our clients. Legislation and regulations are pending in various domestic and international governmental bodies that address online privacy protections. Several governments have proposed, and some have enacted, legislation that would limit the use of personal user information or require online services to establish privacy policies. In addition, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, has urged Congress to adopt legislation regarding the collection and use of personal identifying information obtained from individuals when accessing websites. In the past, the emphasis has been on information obtained from minors. Focus has now shifted to include online privacy protection for minors and adults. Even in the absence of laws requiring companies to establish these procedures, the FTC has settled several proceedings resulting in consent decrees in which Internet companies have been required to establish programs regarding the manner in which personal information is collected from users and provided to third parties. We could become a party to a similar enforcement proceeding. These regulatory and enforcement efforts could limit our collection of and/or ability to share with our clients demographic and personal information from customers, which could adversely affect our ability to comprehensively serve our clients. The European Union has adopted a privacy directive that regulates the collection and use of information that identifies an individual person. These regulations may inhibit or prohibit the collection and sharing of personal information in ways that could harm our clients or us. Failure to comply with member state implementations of these directives may result in fines, private lawsuits and enforcement actions. These enforcement actions can include interruption or shutdown of operations relating to the collection and sharing of information pertaining to citizens of the European Union. Failure to develop our technology to accommodate increased traffic could reduce demand for our services and impair the growth of our business. We periodically enhance and expand our technology and transaction-processing systems, network infrastructure and other technologies to accommodate increases in the volume of traffic on our technology platforms. The volume of traffic on our technology platforms is affected by a variety of factors, including new product launches by existing clients, the launch of commerce websites on our technology platforms for new clients, and seasonal fluctuations in customer demand. Any inability to add software and hardware or to develop and upgrade existing technology, transaction-processing systems or network infrastructure to manage increased traffic and traffic spikes on our technology platforms may cause unanticipated systems disruptions, slower response times and degradation in client services, including impaired quality and speed of order fulfillment. Failure to manage increased traffic and traffic spikes could harm our reputation and significantly reduce demand for our services, which would impair the growth of our business. We may be unable to improve and increase the capacity of our network infrastructure sufficiently or anticipate and react to expected increases in the use of the platform to handle increased volume. Further, additional network capacity may not be available from third-party suppliers when we need it. Our network and our suppliers’ networks may be unable to maintain an acceptable data transmission capability, especially if demands on the platform increase. 23 Table of Contents To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our e-commerce platforms and the underlying network infrastructure. If we incur significant costs without adequate results, or are unable to adapt rapidly to technological changes, we may fail to achieve our business plan. The Internet and the e-commerce industry are characterized by rapid technological changes, changes in user and client requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our technology and systems obsolete. To be successful, we must adapt to rapid technological changes by licensing and internally developing leading technologies to enhance our existing services, developing new products, services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our clients, and responding to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of our proprietary technologies involves significant technical and business risks. We may fail to use new technologies effectively or fail to adapt our proprietary technology and systems to client requirements or emerging industry standards. System failures could reduce the attractiveness of our service offerings. We provide commerce, marketing and delivery services to our clients and consumers through our proprietary technology transaction processing and client management systems. These systems also maintain an electronic inventory of products and gather consumer marketing information. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of the technology and the underlying network infrastructure are critical to our operations, level of client service, reputation and ability to attract and retain clients. We have experienced periodic interruptions, affecting all or a portion of our systems, which we believe will continue to occur from time-to-time. Any systems damage or interruption that impairs our ability to accept and fill client orders could result in an immediate loss of revenue to us, and could cause some clients to purchase services offered by our competitors. In addition, frequent systems failures could harm our reputation. Although we maintain system redundancies in multiple physical locations, our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • Fire, flood and other natural disasters; • Operator negligence, improper operation by, or supervision of, employees, physical and electronic break-ins, misappropriation, computer viruses and similar events; and • Power loss, computer systems failures, denial-of-service attacks, and Internet and telecommunications failure. We may not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to fully compensate us for losses that may occur. We may become liable to clients who are dissatisfied with our services. We design, develop, implement and manage e-commerce solutions that are crucial to the operation of our clients’ businesses. Defects in the solutions we develop could result in delayed or lost revenue, adverse consumer reaction, and/or negative publicity, which could require expensive corrections. Clients who experience these adverse consequences either directly or indirectly by using our services could bring claims against us for substantial damages. Any claims asserted could exceed the level of any insurance coverage that may be available to us. The successful assertion of one or more large claims that are uninsured, that exceed insurance coverage or that result in changes to insurance policies, including future premium increases, could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. Our clients’ sales cycles and the implementation process for our commerce solution are time-consuming, which may cause us to incur substantial expenses and expend management time without generating corresponding consumer revenue, which would impair our cash flow. We market our services directly to software publishers, online retailers, consumer electronics companies and other prospective customers. These relationships are typically complex and take time to finalize. Due to operating procedures in many organizations, a significant amount of time may pass between selection of our products and services by key decision-makers, the signing of a contract, and the launch of a revenue- 24 Table of Contents generating commerce store. The period between the initial client sales call and the signing of a contract with significant sales potential is difficult to predict and typically ranges from six to twelve months. The implementation period between the signing of a contract and the launch of a revenue-generating commerce store for our larger clients is dependent on the features and functionality implemented in the commerce solution and typically ranges from one to four months. If at the end of a sales effort a prospective client does not purchase our products or services, we may have incurred substantial expenses and expended management time that cannot be recovered and that will not generate corresponding revenue. As a result, our cash flow and our ability to fund expenditures incurred during the sales cycle and implementation process may be impaired. We can incur substantial front-end cost to launch client sites and it may require a substantial time before those costs are recouped by us. The listing of our network addresses on anti-spam lists could harm our ability to service our clients and deliver goods over the Internet. Certain privacy and anti-email proponents have engaged in a practice of gathering, and publicly listing, network addresses that they believe have been involved in sending unwanted, unsolicited emails commonly known as spam. In response to user complaints about spam, Internet service providers have, from time to time, blocked such network addresses from sending emails to their users. If our network addresses mistakenly end up on these spam lists, our ability to provide services for our clients and consummate the sales of digital and physical goods over the Internet could be harmed. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk. Sales outside the United States accounted for approximately 42.8% of our total sales in 2008. A significant portion of our cash and marketable securities are held in non-U.S domiciled countries. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally focused websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon translation, net sales and other operating results from our international operations may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. If the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign-currency-denominated transactions will result in increased net revenues and operating expenses. Similarly, our net revenues and operating expenses will decrease if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. As we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations has become more pronounced. We may enter into short-term currency forward contracts to offset the foreign exchange gains and losses generated by the re-measurement of certain assets and liabilities recorded in non-functional currencies. The use of such hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates. See Item 7A of Part II, for information demonstrating the effect on our consolidated statements of income from changes in exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar. Changes in our tax rates could affect our future results. Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or their interpretation. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Developments in accounting standards may cause us to increase our recorded expenses, which in turn would jeopardize our ability to demonstrate sustained profitability. In January 2002, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (SFAS No. 142). The statement generally establishes that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but are to be tested on an annual basis for impairment and, if impaired, are recorded as an impairment charge in income from operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had goodwill with an indefinite life of $273.8 million from our acquisitions. If our goodwill is determined for any reason to 25 Table of Contents be impaired, the subsequent accounting of the impaired portion as an expense would lower our earnings and jeopardize our ability to demonstrate sustained profitability. In January 2008, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 157 “Fair Value Measurements”. The Statement requires the reporting of assets at fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value of assets can shift significantly and can cause a permanent or temporary impairment. Provisions of our charter documents, other agreements and Delaware law may inhibit potential acquisition bids for us. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws, other agreements and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. The investment of our substantial cash balance and our investments in marketable debt securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. As of December 31, 2008, Digital River held $109.5 million of investments at par value, $93.2 million fair value, in auction-rate securities (ARS), all are AAA/Aaa-rated and 105-115 over collateralized by student loans guaranteed by the U.S. government. All the securities are 100% guaranteed by the Department of Education or the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) with the exception of two securities which are 82.5% and 99% guaranteed by FFELP. All of these securities continue to fail at auction due to illiquid market conditions. Because of this, we have recorded a $16.3 million temporary fair value reduction to “Other Comprehensive Income” in 2008. The investment principal associated with failed auctions will not be accessible until successful auctions occur, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, the issuers establish a different form of financing to replace these securities, or final payments come due according to the contractual maturities of the debt issues. If none of these events occur or if the credit markets deteriorate, we may in the future be required to take a larger fair value discount and may be required to take a permanent impairment resulting in a reduction of earnings and liquidity. We intend to hold our auction-rate securities until we can recover the full principal amount and have the ability to do so based on our other sources of liquidity. Based on our expected operating cash flows, and our other sources of cash, we do not anticipate the potential lack of liquidity on these investments will affect our ability to execute our current business plan. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 