Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business because such factors currently or may have a significant impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. This Annual Report on Form 10-K may contain forward-looking statements that have been made pursuant to the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the future. Risks Related to Our Business Our online wedding-related and other websites may fail to generate sufficient revenues to survive over the long term. Our model for conducting business and generating revenues remains unproven. Our business model depends in large part on our ability to generate revenue streams from multiple sources through our online sites, including online sponsorship and advertising fees from third parties and online sales of wedding gifts and supplies. It is uncertain whether wedding-related, newlywed and pregnancy/baby online sites that rely on attracting sponsors and advertisers, as well as people to purchase wedding gifts and supplies, can generate sufficient revenues to survive over the long term. For our business to be successful, we must provide users with an acceptable blend of products, information, services and community offerings that will attract wedding and other consumers to our online sites frequently. In addition, we must provide sponsors, advertisers and vendors the opportunity to reach these consumers. We provide our services to users without charge, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to pay for these services. We also face many of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered in rapidly evolving and intensely competitive markets, including the online advertising and e-commerce markets. These risks include our ability to: • increase the audience on our sites; • broaden awareness of our brand; • strengthen user loyalty; • offer compelling content; • maintain our leadership in generating traffic; • maintain our current, and develop new, strategic relationships; • attract a large number of advertisers from a variety of industries; • respond effectively to competitive pressures; • continue to develop and upgrade our technology; and • attract, integrate, retain and motivate qualified personnel. Accordingly, we are not certain that our business model will continue to be successful or that we can sustain revenue growth or profitability. We incurred losses for many years following our inception and may incur losses in the future. While we have achieved profitability in recent fiscal years, we have accumulated losses. As of December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $6.9 million. We expect to continue to incur significant operating expenses and, as a result, we will need to generate significant revenues to maintain profitability. We cannot assure you that we can sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Failure to maintain profitability may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition as well as the market price of our common stock. 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS We lack significant revenues and may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. Our revenues for the foreseeable future will remain dependent on online user traffic levels, advertising activity (both online and offline), the extension of our brands into other lifestages and services, and the expansion of our e-commerce activity. In addition, we plan to expand and develop content and to continue to upgrade and enhance our technology and infrastructure. We incur a significant percentage of our expenses, such as employee compensation, prior to generating revenues associated with those expenses. Moreover, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectation of future revenues. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. If we have a shortfall in revenues or if operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, then our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. If sales to sponsors or advertisers forecasted in a particular period are delayed or do not otherwise occur, our results of operations for a particular period would be materially and adversely affected. The time between the date of initial contact and the execution of a contract with a national sponsor or advertiser is often lengthy, typically ranging from six weeks for smaller programs and several months for larger programs, and may be subject to delays over which we have little or no control including: • the occurrence of extraordinary events, such as the attacks on September 11, 2001; • advertisers' budgetary constraints; • advertisers' internal acceptance reviews; • the success and continued internal support of advertisers' and sponsors' own development efforts; and • the possibility of cancellation or delay of projects by advertisers or sponsors. During the sales cycle, we may expend substantial funds and management resources in advance of generating sponsorship or advertising revenues. Accordingly, if sales to advertisers or sponsors forecasted in a particular period are delayed or do not otherwise occur, we would generate less sponsorship and advertising revenues during that period, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are subject to significant fluctuation, and these fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are expected to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. These factors include: • the level of online usage and traffic on our websites; • seasonal demand for e-commerce including sales of registry products and wedding-related merchandise; • the addition or loss of advertisers; • the advertising budgeting cycles of specific advertisers; • the regional and national magazines’ publishing cycles; • the amount and timing of capital expenditures and other costs relating to the expansion of our operations, including those related to acquisitions; • the introduction of new sites and services by us or our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; and • general economic conditions, as well as economic conditions specific to the Internet, online and offline media and electronic commerce. We do not believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are necessarily meaningful and you should not rely upon these comparisons as indicators of our future performance. 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS Due to the foregoing factors, it is also possible that our results of operations in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of investors and/or securities analysts. In such event, the trading price of our common stock is likely to decline. Because the frequency of weddings vary from quarter to quarter, our operating results may fluctuate due to seasonality. Seasonal and cyclical patterns may affect our revenues. Wedding related merchandise revenues and registry sales generally are lower in the first and fourth quarters of each year. As a result of these factors, we may experience fluctuations in our revenues from quarter to quarter. WeddingChannel’s registry services business is dependent on third parties. If any of these third parties do not perform as expected, our revenues could decline. Our registry services business is dependent on the continued use of the WeddingChannel website by our retail partners whose registries are posted on the website. While Macy’s, Inc. (“Macy’s”) entered into an extension of their registry services contract with WeddingChannel in 2006, various other retailers have contracts with WeddingChannel that are coming up for renewal in the near future. In the event that one or more retail partners should decide not to renew their registry services agreements with WeddingChannel, that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our registry services business is also dependent on our retail partners keeping their respective websites operational, as well as on the traffic which visits those sites. We also rely on information provided by these partners to update and integrate registry information daily. Any decline in traffic or technical difficulties experienced by these websites may negatively affect our revenues. The fulfillment and delivery of products purchased by customers using our registry services is administered by our retail partners and, therefore, we are dependent on our retail partners to manage inventory, process orders and distribute products to our customers in a timely manner. If our retail partners experience problems with customer fulfillment or inventory management, or if we cannot integrate our processes with those of our partners, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. The retail services business is highly competitive. Our retail partners compete for customers, employees, locations, products and other important aspects of their businesses with many other local, regional, national and international retailers, both online and offline. We are dependent on our retail partners to manage these competitive pressures, and to the extent they are unable to do so, we may experience lower revenue and/or higher operating costs, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We have invested in securities that are subject to market risk and the current negative liquidity conditions in the global credit markets could adversely affect the value of our assets. We have short-term investments totaling $59.0 million in auction rate securities as of March 3, 2008. All of these investments are AAA/Aaa rated variable rate debt securities whose interest rates reset every 35 days. These securities are collateralized by student loans, with approximately 92% of such collateral in the aggregate guaranteed by the United States government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program. $3.0 million of these securities have an underlying maturity date of November 1, 2009 while the remaining securities have underlying maturity dates ranging from March 1, 2022 through December 1, 2041. From February 14, 2008 through March 3, 2008, several auctions have failed representing securities totaling $48.2 million. An auction failed when there was insufficient demand. However, this does not represent a default by the issuer of the auction rate security. Upon an auction failure, the interest rates reset based on a formula contained in the security, which rate is generally higher than the current market rate. The reset interest rates on the auction rate securities currently held by us range from a short-term debt index plus 150 to 250 basis points, to as high as 14%. Each failed auction will be assessed individually but based on the current information at hand, we have no reason to believe that any of the underlying issuers of our auction rate securities are presently at risk or that these securities are otherwise impaired. However, if these issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to record an impairment charge on these investments in the future. Additionally, if such issuers default with respect to such securities, we 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS may no longer continue to receive any interest and may be required to record a further impairment charge on such investments. In the event we need to access these funds, we could be required to sell these securities at an amount below our original purchase value. If we are unable to liquidate these investments as necessary to execute our current business plan, we may need to change or postpone such business plan or find alternative financing, if available, for such business plan. Any of these events could materially affect our results of operations and our financial condition. We depend on our strategic relationships with other websites. We depend on establishing and maintaining distribution relationships with high-traffic websites such as MSN and Comcast for a portion of our traffic. There is intense competition for placements on these sites, and we may not be able to continue to enter into such relationships on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Even if we enter into or maintain distribution relationships with these websites, they themselves may not attract a significant number of users. Therefore, our sites may not receive additional users from these relationships. Moreover, we may be required to pay significant fees to establish and maintain these relationships. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if we do not establish and maintain strategic relationships on commercially reasonable terms or if any of our strategic relationships do not result in increased use of our websites. The market for Internet advertising is still developing, and if the Internet fails to gain further acceptance as a media for advertising, we would experience slower revenue growth than expected or a decrease in revenue and would incur greater than expected losses. Our future success depends, in part, on a significant increase in the use of the Internet as an advertising and marketing medium. Total online sponsorship and advertising revenues constituted approximately 50% of our net revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007. The Internet advertising market is still developing, and it cannot yet be compared with traditional advertising media to gauge its effectiveness. As a result, demand for and market acceptance of Internet advertising solutions are uncertain. Many of our current and potential customers have little or no experience with Internet advertising and have allocated only a limited portion of their advertising and marketing budgets to Internet activities. The adoption of Internet advertising, particularly by entities that have historically relied upon traditional methods of advertising and marketing, requires the acceptance of a new way of advertising and marketing. These customers may find Internet advertising to be less effective for meeting their business needs than traditional methods of advertising and marketing. Furthermore, there are software programs that limit or prevent advertising from being delivered to a user's computer. Widespread adoption of this software by users would significantly undermine the commercial viability of Internet advertising. We may be unable to continue to build awareness of The Knot, WeddingChannel and The Nest brand names, which would negatively impact our business and cause our revenues to decline. Building and maintaining recognition of our brand is critical to attracting and expanding our online user base and our offline readership. Because we plan to continue building brand recognition, we may find it necessary to accelerate expenditures on our sales and marketing efforts or otherwise increase our financial commitment to creating and maintaining brand awareness. Any failure to successfully promote and maintain our brand would adversely affect our business and cause us to incur significant expenses in promoting our brand without an associated increase in our net revenues. Our business could be adversely affected if we are not able to successfully integrate any future acquisitions or successfully operate under our strategic partnerships. In the future, we may acquire, or invest in, complementary companies, products or technologies or enter into new strategic partnerships. Acquisitions, investments and partnerships involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, products and personnel; • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; • risks of entering new markets; 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS • potential loss of key employees; and • inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset acquisition or investment costs. The costs associated with potential acquisitions or strategic alliances could dilute your investment or adversely affect our results of operations. To pay for an acquisition or to enter into a strategic alliance, we might use equity securities, debt, cash, or a combination of the foregoing. If we use equity securities, our existing stockholders may experience dilution. In addition, an acquisition may involve non-recurring charges, including writedowns of significant amounts of intangible assets or goodwill. The related increases in expenses could adversely affect our results of operations. Any such acquisitions or strategic alliances may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Our acquisition of WeddingChannel may adversely affect our financial results. We are accounting for our acquisition of WeddingChannel using purchase accounting. As a result, we have taken a charge against our earnings for amortization of intangibles with a finite life, and we may be required to take other non-recurring charges, including writedowns of significant amounts of intangible assets with indefinite lives or goodwill. Our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed by such charges. If we cannot protect our domain names, it will impair our ability to successfully promote our brands. We currently hold various web domain names, including www.theknot.com, www.weddingchannel.com and www.thenest.com, that are critical to the operation of our business. The acquisition and maintenance of domain names, or Internet addresses, generally is regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. The regulation of domain names in the United States and in foreign countries is subject to change. Governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names in all countries in which we conduct business. Furthermore, it is unclear whether laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights will be extended to protect domain names. Therefore, we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. We may not successfully carry out our business strategy of establishing a strong brand for The Knot, WeddingChannel or The Nest if we cannot prevent others from using similar domain names or trademarks. This could impair our ability to increase market share and revenues. Our business and prospects would suffer if we are unable to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We rely on copyright, trademark, patent and other intellectual property laws to protect our proprietary rights in our proprietary technology, processes, designs, content and other intellectual property to the extent such protection is sought or secured at all. We also depend on trade secret protection through, among other things, confidentiality agreements and/or invention assignment agreements with our employees, licensees and others and through license agreements with our licensees and other partners. We may not have agreements containing adequate protective provisions in every case, and the contractual provisions that are in place may not provide us with adequate protection in all circumstances. In addition, the steps we might otherwise take may not be adequate to protect against infringement and misappropriation of our intellectual property by third parties. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, intellectual property laws afford us only limited protection. A third party may be able to develop similar or superior technology, processes, content or other intellectual property independently. In addition, monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property, including our copyrights, trademarks and service marks, is difficult. The unauthorized reproduction or misappropriation of our intellectual property rights could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, could diminish the value of our brands, competitive advantages or goodwill, and could result in decreased sales. If this occurs, our business and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Disputes concerning the ownership, or rights to use, intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming to litigate, may distract management from other tasks of operating the business and may result in our 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS loss of significant rights and the loss of our ability to operate our business. Litigation has been and may continue to be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type has resulted in and could in the future result in further substantial costs and diversion of resources, may result in counterclaims or other claims against us and could significantly harm our results of operations. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition, we have not obtained copyright and trademark protection for all of our proprietary technology, processes, content and brands in all of the countries where we sell our products or otherwise operate. This could leave us helpless to stop potential infringers or possibly even unable to sell our products or provide our services in certain territories. Our services and products may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, and any disputes with or claims by third parties alleging our infringement or misappropriation of their proprietary rights could require us to incur substantial costs and distract our management, and could otherwise have a negative impact on our business. Other parties have asserted in the past and may assert in the future claims alleging infringement of third party proprietary rights, including with respect to copyright, trademark, patent or other intellectual proprietary rights important to our business. If we are subject to claims of infringement or are infringing the rights of third parties, we may not be able to obtain licenses to use those rights on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, we could need to undertake substantial reengineering to continue our online offerings. Any effort to undertake such reengineering might not be successful. Furthermore, a party making such a claim could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from selling our products or otherwise operating our business. Any claim of infringement, even if the claim is invalid or without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, could distract our management from our business, could be time-consuming, could result in costly settlements, litigation or restrictions on our business and could damage our reputation. Increased competition in our markets could reduce our market share, the number of our advertisers, our advertising revenues and our margins. The Internet advertising and online wedding markets are rapidly evolving. Additionally, both the Internet advertising and online wedding markets and the wedding magazine publishing markets are intensely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. We face competition for members, users, readers and advertisers from the following areas: • online services, websites or blogs targeted at brides and grooms as well as the online sites of retail stores, manufacturers and regional wedding directories; • bridal magazines, such as Brides and Modern Bride (both part of the Condé Nast family); and • online and retail stores offering gift registries, especially from retailers offering specific bridal gift registries. We expect competition to increase because of the business opportunities presented by the growth of the Internet and e-commerce. Our competition may also intensify as a result of industry consolidation and a lack of substantial barriers to entry. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, greater name recognition and substantially larger readership bases than we have and, therefore, have significant ability to attract advertisers, users and readers. In addition, many of our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in Internet user requirements, as well as devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion and sale of services. There can be no assurance that our current or potential competitors will not develop services and products comparable or superior to those that we develop or adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies, evolving industry trends or changing Internet user preferences. Increased competition could result in price reductions, lower margins or loss of market share. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our potential inability to compete effectively in our industry for qualified personnel could hinder the success of our business. Competition for personnel in the Internet and media industries is intense. We may be unable to retain employees who are important to the success of our business, in particular, members of our senior management team. We may also face difficulties attracting, integrating or retaining other highly qualified employees in the future. Any loss or interruption of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key personnel or our inability to attract new personnel could result in us being unable to manage our operations effectively and/or to pursue our business strategy. Terrorism and the uncertainty of war may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other acts of violence or war may affect the market on which our common stock will trade, the markets in which we operate or our operating results. Further terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses may occur. The potential near-term and long-term effect these attacks may have for our customers, the market for our common stock, the markets for our services and the U.S. economy are uncertain. The consequences of any terrorist attacks, or any armed conflicts which may result, are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to obtain additional financing necessary to execute our business strategy. We currently believe that our current cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the foreseeable future. Our ability to meet our obligations in the ordinary course of business is dependent upon our ability to maintain profitable operations and/or raise additional financing through public or private debt or equity financings, or other arrangements with corporate sources, or other sources of financing to fund operations. However, there is no assurance that we will maintain profitable operations or that additional funding, if required, will be available to us in amounts or on terms acceptable to us. Systems disruptions and failures could cause advertiser or user dissatisfaction and could reduce the attractiveness of our sites. The continuing and uninterrupted performance of our computer systems is critical to our success. Our advertisers and sponsors, users and members may become dissatisfied by any systems disruption or failure that interrupts our ability to provide our services and content to them. Substantial or repeated system disruption or failures would reduce the attractiveness of our online sites significantly. The systems hardware required to run our sites is located at Sungard AS Corporation's facilities in Austin, Texas and at IBM Global Services’ facilities in Los Angeles, California. Fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, acts of terrorism and similar events could damage these systems. Our operations depend on the ability of Sungard and IBM to protect its own systems and our systems in its data center against damage from fire, power loss, water damage, telecommunications failure, vandalism and similar unexpected adverse events. Sungard and IBM do not guarantee that our Internet access will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. As an additional measure to ensure availability of our sites, we have begun the process of setting up a disaster recovery datacenter run by Qwest Communications in Burbank, California. This facility will provide us with a “warm” standby location to transfer our sites in the event of a catastrophic failure in the Austin Sungard facility. We are in the process of performing the installation and currently expect to have this completed in 2008. There can be no assurance that our disaster recovery plan will operate successfully. Computer viruses, electronic break-ins or other similar disruptive problems also could adversely affect our online sites. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if our systems were affected by any of these occurrences. Our sites must accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver frequently updated information. Our sites have in the past experienced slower response times. These types of occurrences in the future could cause users to perceive our sites as not functioning properly and, therefore, cause them to use another online site or other methods to obtain information or services. In addition, our users depend on Internet service providers, online service providers and other site operators for access to our online sites. Many of them have experienced significant outages in the past, and could experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to system disruptions or failures unrelated to our systems. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS cover any claims by dissatisfied advertisers or customers or may not be adequate to indemnify us for any liability that may be imposed in the event that a claim were brought against us. Any system disruption or failure, security breach or other damage that interrupts or delays our operations could cause us to lose users, sponsors and advertisers and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have undertaken an overhaul of our legacy technology platforms which will require significant human and financial resources and may not improve our operating infrastructure. Beginning in 2007, we commenced an overhaul of our legacy technology platforms, including our contract entry systems, our content management system and our ad server. Our ad server was transitioned to a new system in the fourth quarter of 2007. Our new content management system was implemented in 2007 for TheNest.com, and we plan to transition TheKnot.com and WeddingChannel.com to the new content management system in 2008. We are in the process of modernizing our local sales contract entry system. Historically, key content management and e-commerce components were designed, developed and deployed by our in-house technology group, and we also licensed commercially available technology when appropriate in lieu of dedicating our own human and financial resources. We have continued to do so where appropriate for our new technology platforms, and have also engaged outside technology service firms to help in the completion of these projects. These upgrades to our systems have required significant human and financial resources and will continue to do so in the near future. In particular, the capital expenditures required for these upgrades may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not able to secure the technology talent to complete these upgrades. Moreover, oversight of these upgrades will consume significant attention from our management which could hamper our ability to run our business on a normal basis. Finally, if our technology upgrades are not successful, we may not able to scale our websites or react to a changing competitive landscape. We may not be able to deliver various services if third parties fail to provide reliable software, systems and related services to us. We are dependent on various third parties for software, systems and related services in connection with our hosting, placement of advertising, accounting software, data transmission and security systems. Several of the third parties that provide software and services to us have a limited operating history and have relatively new technology. These third parties are dependent on reliable delivery of services from others. If our current providers were to experience prolonged systems failures or delays, we would need to pursue alternative sources of services. Although alternative sources of these services are available, we may be unable to secure such services on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us. As a result, we may experience business disruptions if these third parties fail to provide reliable software, systems and related services to us. Privacy concerns relating to elements of our technology could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our products and services. Laws applicable to e-commerce, online privacy and the Internet generally are becoming more prevalent. It is possible that new laws and regulations may be adopted regarding the Internet or other online services in the United States and foreign countries. Such laws and regulations may address user privacy, freedom of expression, unsolicited commercial e-mail (spam), pricing, content and quality of services and products, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights and information security. The nature of such legislation and the manner in which it may be interpreted and enforced cannot be fully determined at this time. Such legislation could subject us and/or our customers to potential liability or restrict our present business practices, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the FTC has investigated the privacy practices of several companies that collect information about individuals on the Internet. The adoption of any such laws or regulations might also decrease the rate of growth of Internet use generally, which, in turn, could decrease the demand for our service or increase our cost of doing business or in some other manner have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Specifically, privacy legislation has been enacted in the U.S., and the U.S. Federal Trade Commission has taken action against website operators that do not comply with state privacy policies. The Children's Online Privacy Protection Act imposes additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS minors. Several states have proposed legislation that would limit the use and disclosure of personally identifiable information gathered online about users. To obtain membership on our sites, a user must disclose their name, address, e-mail address and role in the wedding. We do not currently share any member's personal identifying information to third parties without the member's prior consent. We may share aggregated member information with third parties, such as a member's zip code or gender and may use information revealed by members and information built from user behavior to target advertising, content and e-mail. Because we rely on the collection and use of personal data from our members for targeting advertisements, we may be harmed by any laws or regulations that restrict our ability to collect or use this data. The international regulatory environment relating to the Internet market could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition if we elect to expand internationally. In particular, the European Union privacy regulations limit the collection and use of some user information and subject data collectors to a restrictive regulatory regime. The cost of such compliance could be material, and we may not be able to comply with the applicable national regulations in a timely or cost-effective manner, if at all. Changes to existing laws or the passage of new laws intended to address these issues, including some recently proposed changes, could create uncertainty in the marketplace that could reduce demand for our services or increase the cost of doing business as a result of litigation costs or increased service delivery costs, or could in some other manner have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Privacy concerns in general may cause visitors to avoid online sites that collect behavioral information and even the perception of security and privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may indirectly inhibit market acceptance of our services. In addition, if our privacy practices are deemed unacceptable by watchdog groups or privacy advocates, such groups may attempt to harm our business by blocking access to our sites or disparaging our reputation and our business, and may have a material effect on our results of operation and financial condition. If our security systems are breached we could incur liability, our services may be perceived as not being secure, and our business and reputation could suffer. Our business involves the storage and transmission of the proprietary information of our customers. Although we employ internal control procedures to protect the security of our customers' data, we cannot guarantee that these measures will be sufficient for this purpose. If our security measures are breached as a result of a third party action, employee error or otherwise, and as a result customers' information becomes available to unauthorized parties, we could incur liability and our reputation would be damaged, which could lead to the loss of current and potential customers. Breaches of our security could result in misappropriation of personal information. If we experience any breaches of our network security or sabotage, we might be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy, protect against or alleviate these and related problems, and we may not be able to remedy these problems in a timely manner, or at all. Because techniques used by outsiders to obtain unauthorized network access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are usually not able to be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. Our systems are also exposed to computer viruses, denial of service attacks and bulk unsolicited commercial e-mail, or spam. The property and business interruption insurance we carry may not have coverage adequate to compensate us fully for losses that may occur. Such events could cause loss of service and data to customers, even if the resulting disruption is temporary. We could be required to make significant expenditures if our systems are damaged or destroyed, or if the delivery of our services to our customers is delayed and our business could be harmed. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and our financial success is linked to the success of our customers, our customers' commitment to our services and products, and our ability to satisfy and retain our customers. One customer, Macy’s, accounted for approximately 10% of our consolidated net revenues during the year ended December 31, 2007. We expect that this customer will continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenues in the future, especially with the consolidation that is occurring in the retail industry. The loss of 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS this customer or a reduction in the amount of our net revenues generated by this customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have not independently verified market share and industry data and forecasts. We make statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K about market share and industry data and forecasts that we obtained from industry publications and surveys and internal company sources. Industry publications and surveys and forecasts generally state that the information contained therein has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but there can be no assurance as to the accuracy or completeness of included information. Although we have no reason to believe that any of this information is inaccurate in any material respect, we have not independently verified the data provided by third parties or derived from industry or general publications. Risks Related to the Internet Industry We may be unable to respond to the rapid technological change in the Internet industry. If we are unable, for technological, legal, financial or other reasons, to adapt in a timely manner to changing market conditions or customer requirements, we could lose users and market share to our competitors. The Internet and e-commerce are characterized by rapid technological change. Sudden changes in user and customer requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could render our existing online sites and proprietary technology and systems obsolete. The emerging nature of services and products in the online wedding market and their rapid evolution will require that we continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our online services. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability: • to enhance our existing services; • to develop and license new services and technology that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers and users; and • to respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of online sites and other proprietary technology entails significant technological and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead time. We may be unable to use new technologies effectively or adapt our online sites, proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards. Updating our technology internally and licensing new technology from third parties may require significant additional capital expenditures. If the use of the Internet and commercial online services as media for commerce does not continue to grow, our business would be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that a sufficiently broad base of consumers will adopt, and continue to use, the Internet and commercial online services as media for commerce, particularly for purchases of wedding gifts and supplies. Even if consumers adopt the Internet or commercial online services as a media for commerce, we cannot be sure that the necessary infrastructure will be in place to process such transactions. Our long-term viability depends substantially upon the widespread acceptance and the development of the Internet or commercial online services as effective media for consumer commerce and for advertising. Use of the Internet or commercial online services to effect retail transactions and to advertise is at an early stage of development. Convincing consumers to purchase wedding gifts and supplies online may be difficult. Demand for recently introduced services and products over the Internet and commercial online services is subject to a high level of uncertainty. The continued development of the Internet and commercial online services as a viable commercial marketplace is subject to a number of factors, including: • continued growth in the number of users of such services; • concerns about transaction security; • continued development of the necessary technological infrastructure; 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS • consistent quality of service; • availability of cost-effective, high speed service; • uncertain and increasing government regulation; and • the development of complementary services and products. If users experience difficulties because of capacity constraints of the infrastructure of the Internet and other commercial online services, potential users may not be able to access our sites, and our business and prospects would be harmed. To the extent that the Internet and other online services continue to experience growth in the number of users and frequency of use by consumers resulting in increased bandwidth demands, there can be no assurance that the infrastructure for the Internet and other online services will be able to support the demands placed upon them. The Internet and other online services have experienced outages and delays as a result of damage to portions of their infrastructure, power failures, telecommunication outages, network service outages and disruptions, natural disasters and vandalism and other misconduct. Outages or delays could adversely affect online sites, e-mail and the level of traffic on all sites. We depend on online access providers that provide our users with access to our services. In the past, users have experienced difficulties due to systems failures unrelated to our systems. In addition, the Internet or other online services could lose their viability due to delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols required to handle increased levels of Internet or other online service activity or to increased governmental regulation. Insufficient availability of telecommunications services to support the Internet or other online services also could result in slower response times and negatively impact use of the Internet and other online services generally, and our sites in particular. If the use of the Internet and other online services fails to grow or grows more slowly than expected, if the infrastructure for the Internet and other online services does not effectively support growth that may occur or if the Internet and other online services do not become a viable commercial marketplace, it is possible that we will not be able to maintain profitability. Our online sponsorship and advertising revenues, as well as our merchandise revenues, could decline if we become subject to burdensome government regulation and legal uncertainties related to doing business online. Laws and regulations directly applicable to Internet communications, privacy, commerce and advertising are becoming more prevalent. Laws and regulations may be adopted covering issues such as user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, unsolicited commercial e-mail (spam), content, taxation, quality of services and products, advertising, intellectual property rights and information security. Any new legislation could hinder the growth in use of the Internet and other online services generally and decrease the acceptance of the Internet and other online services as media of communications, commerce and advertising. Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that, although our transmissions originate in New York and California, the governments of other states or foreign countries might attempt to regulate our transmissions or levy sales or other taxes relating to our activities. We file tax returns in the states where we are required to by law, based on principles applicable to traditional businesses. However, one or more states could seek to impose additional income tax obligations or sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state companies, such as us, that engage in or facilitate electronic commerce. A number of proposals have been made at state and local levels that could impose such taxes on the sale of products and services through the Internet or the income derived from such sales. If adopted, these proposals could substantially impair the growth of electronic commerce and seriously harm our profitability. The laws governing the Internet remain largely unsettled, even in areas where legislation has been enacted. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws such as those governing intellectual property, privacy, libel and taxation apply to the Internet and Internet advertising services. In addition, the growth and development of the market for e-commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws, both in the United States and abroad, which may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet and other online services could cause our sponsorship and advertising revenues and merchandise revenues to decline and our business and prospects to suffer. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be sued for information retrieved from our sites. We may be subject to claims for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, personal injury or other legal theories relating to the information we publish on our online sites. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services as well as other print publications in the past. We could also be subject to claims based upon the content that is accessible from our online sites through links to other online sites or through content and materials that may be posted by members in chat rooms or bulletin boards. Our insurance, which covers commercial general liability, may not adequately protect us against these types of claims. We may incur potential product liability for products sold online. Consumers may sue us if any of the products that we sell online are defective, fail to perform properly or injure the user. To date, we have had limited experience selling products online and developing relationships with manufacturers or suppliers of such products. We sell a range of products targeted specifically at brides and grooms. Such a strategy involves numerous risks and uncertainties. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. As a result, any such claims, whether or not successful, could seriously damage our financial results, reputation and brand name. We may incur significant expenses related to the security of personal information online. The need to transmit securely confidential information online has been a significant barrier to e-commerce and online communications. Any well-publicized compromise of security could deter people from using the Internet or other online services or from using them to conduct transactions that involve transmitting confidential information. Because our success depends on the acceptance of online services and e-commerce, we may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been highly volatile and is likely to experience significant price and volume fluctuations in the future, which could result in substantial losses for our stockholders and subject us to litigation. The equity trading markets may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market price of our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Our common stock has experienced significant volume and price fluctuations in the past. For example, from January 31, 2006 through January 31, 2007, the market price of our common stock more than doubled, increasing from $13.74 to $30.17. From January 31, 2007 to January 31, 2008, our stock price decreased by over 50%, to $14.64. Our current market price and valuation may not be sustainable. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your common stock at or above your purchase price. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the object of securities class action litigation. If we were to become the subject of securities class action litigation, we could face substantial costs and be negatively affected by diversion of our management's attention and resources. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly, including a decline below your purchase price, in the future. In addition, the stock markets in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations, which could result in substantial losses for our stockholders. Future sales of shares of our common stock, or the perception that these shares might be sold, could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly. On July 20, 2006, we filed a shelf registration statement covering resales of the 2,750,000 shares of common stock by the institutional investors who purchased shares in a private placement on July 10, 2006. This registration statement was declared effective on August 14, 2006. These shares are freely tradable. In the third quarter of 2006, we completed a follow-on offering pursuant to which we issued 2,809,600 shares of our common stock. Only certain of these shares were subject to lock-up restrictions with the underwriters of the follow-on offering, and these lock-up restrictions expired in November 2006. In addition, we 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS issued 1,149,876 shares of our common stock as part of the consideration paid to stockholders of WeddingChannel upon the completion of the acquisition, and most of those shares are freely tradable. Upon the closing of our acquisition of WeddingChannel, The Knot granted Macy’s registration rights for as long as it owns a number of shares equal to at least 5% of the outstanding common stock of The Knot on the closing date. Certain future holders may be granted rights to participate in, or require us to file, registration statements with the SEC for resales of common stock. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock into the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale, will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding stock options), or the perception that such sales could occur, may materially and adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Provisions in our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law may make it more difficult to effect a change in control, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We may issue shares of preferred stock in the future without stockholder approval and upon such terms as our board of directors may determine. Our issuance of this preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding stock and potentially prevent the payment of a premium to stockholders in an acquisition. In addition, our certificate of incorporation includes provisions giving the board the exclusive right to fill all board vacancies, providing for a classified board of directors and permitting removal of directors only for cause and with a super-majority vote of the stockholders. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, and may limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that prohibit business combinations with persons owning 15% or more of the voting shares of a corporation's outstanding stock for three years following the date that person became an interested stockholder, unless the combination is approved by the board of directors prior to the person owning 15% or more of the stock, after which the business combination would be subject to special stockholder approval requirements. This provision could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company or may otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control from us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that we will retain all future earnings and other cash resources for the future operation and development of our business. As a result, we do not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account many factors, including our operating results, financial conditions, current and anticipated cash needs and plans for expansion. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may not occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Our executive officers, directors and stockholders who each owned greater than 5% of our common stock exercise significant control over all matters requiring a stockholder vote. As of December 31, 2007, our executive officers and directors and stockholders who each owned greater than 5% of our common stock, and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 60.5% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, if some or all of these stockholders act as a group, they would be 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS able to exercise control over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 