Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in shares of our common stock involves various risks. Before deciding to invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K and information incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Our provision for loan losses increased substantially during the past fiscal year and we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, especially due to our level of non-performing assets. Further, our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. For the year ended September 30, 2009, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $23.0 million. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $15.2 million. Our non-performing assets increased significantly in fiscal 2009 from $24.4 million, or 1.87% of total assets at September 30, 2008 to $67.8 million, or 4.82% of total assets at September 30, 2009. The increase was primarily due to the weakened economy and the softening real estate market. If the economy and/or the real estate market continues to weaken these assets may not perform according to their terms and the value of the collateral may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. If this occurs, we may experience losses, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent and classified loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, anticipated duration of the current business cycle, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are, by nature, more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. Federal regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 35 High loan-to-value ratios on a significant portion of our residential mortgage and home equity line of credit portfolios expose us to greater risk of loss. Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because we originated a first mortgage with an 80% loan-to-value ratio at the time of purchase and a concurrent second mortgage with a combined loan-to-value ratio of up to 100%. At September 30, 2009, approximately $44.7 million of second mortgage loans, or 13.9% of our $320.5 million residential mortgage loan portfolio, had original combined loan-to-value ratios in excess of 90%. In addition, our home equity lines of credit may have, when added to existing senior lien balances, a combined loan-to-value ratio at the date of origination based upon the fully-disbursed amount, of up to 100% of the value of the home securing the loan. At September 30, 2009, we held $12.8 million of uninsured home equity lines of credit with a combined loan-to-value ratio in excess of 90%. Our average loan-to-value ratio in our home equity line of credit portfolio is below 80%. These loan-to-value ratios are based on values at the time of origination. Subsequent declines in real estate values have likely resulted in an increase in such ratios. Residential loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than would those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and, therefore, may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the proceeds of the sale. The unseasoned nature of many loans in our commercial loan portfolio may result in errors in judging their collectability, which may lead to additional provisions for loan losses and/or charge-offs, which would reduce our profits. Our commercial loan portfolio, which includes loans secured by commercial, multi-family and residential real estate as well as business assets, has increased $66.4 million, or 12.5%, to $597.2 million at September 30, 2009 from $530.8 million at September 30, 2008, and increased $575.7 million from $21.4 million at September 30, 2003, the year we began our commercial lending operation. A large portion of our commercial loan portfolio is unseasoned and does not provide us with a significant payment history pattern from which to judge future collectability. As a result, it is difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance. Further, commercial loans generally have larger balances and involve a greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per-loan basis than those incurred with our residential mortgage loan portfolio. If the value of real estate in the St. Louis and Kansas City metropolitan areas were to continue to decline, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The St. Louis and Kansas City metropolitan areas have experienced declines in home prices over the past two years. A further decline in local economic conditions could have an additional adverse affect on the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans. A continued decline in property values would diminish our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral, making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would reduce our profits. Also, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. Real estate values are affected by various factors in addition to local economic conditions, including, among other things, changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. 36 Our business is subject to the success of the local economy in which we operate. Since the latter half of 2007, depressed economic conditions have existed throughout the United States, including our market area. Our market area has experienced home price declines, increased foreclosures and increased unemployment rates. Continued deterioration of economic conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased loan delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in the State of Missouri could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and our stock price. As a result of the general economic downturn and uncertainty in the financial markets, commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance or our stock price. An increase in interest rates may reduce our mortgage revenues, which would negatively impact our non-interest income. Our mortgage banking operations provide a significant portion of our non-interest income. We generate mortgage revenues primarily from gains on the sale of loans to investors on a servicing-released basis. In a rising or higher interest rate environment, our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors. This would result in a decrease in mortgage revenues and a corresponding decrease in non-interest income. In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of non-interest expenses associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense and other operating costs. During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations. 37 Secondary mortgage market conditions could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to being affected by interest rates, the secondary mortgage markets are also subject to investor demand for residential mortgage loans and increased investor yield requirements for those loans. These conditions may fluctuate or even worsen in the future. In light of current conditions, there is a higher risk to retaining a larger portion of mortgage loans than we would in other environments until they are sold to investors. We believe our ability to retain fixed-rate residential mortgage loans is limited. As a result, a prolonged period of secondary market illiquidity may reduce our loan production volumes and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., the prime rate) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. We principally manage interest-rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. 38 If the goodwill that we recorded in connection with a business acquisition becomes impaired, it could have a negative impact on our profitability. Goodwill represents the amount of acquisition cost over the fair value of net assets we acquired in the purchase of another financial institution. We review goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the asset might be impaired. We determine impairment by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Any such adjustments are reflected in our results of operations in the periods in which they become known. At September 30, 2009, our goodwill totaled $3.9 million. While we have recorded no such impairment charges since we initially recorded the goodwill, there can be no assurance that our future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business strategy includes the continuation of moderate growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. Our assets increased $102.3 million, or 7.8%, from $1.30 billion at September 30, 2008 to $1.41 billion at September 30, 2009, primarily due to increases in commercial loans held in our portfolio and residential real estate loans held for sale. We expect to continue to experience growth in the amount of our assets, the level of our deposits and the scale of our operations. Achieving our growth targets requires us to attract customers that currently bank at other financial institutions in our market, thereby increasing our share of the market. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to attract and retain experienced bankers, the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance growth opportunities will be available or that we will successfully manage our growth. If we do not manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to achieve our business plan, and our business and prospects could be harmed. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that we have sufficient capital resources to satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. If we raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities, it would dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders which may adversely impact our current shareholders. On January 16, 2009, as part of the Capital Purchase Program under the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program, the Company issued 32,538 shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, $1,000 per share liquidation preference, and a warrant to purchase up to 778,421 shares of the Company’s common stock for a period of ten years at an exercise price of $6.27 per share in exchange for $32.5 million in cash from the U.S. Department of Treasury. The preferred stock pays cumulative dividends of 5% per year for the first five years and 9% per year thereafter. The Company may, at its option, redeem the preferred stock at its liquidation preference plus accrued and unpaid dividends. We intend to redeem the preferred stock prior to the increase in the dividend rate to 9%. Such redemption will require us to raise additional capital. 39 Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Our wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits at maturity and support our future growth. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. As we continue to grow, we may become more dependent on these sources, which include FHLB advances, borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank, proceeds from the sale of loans, and brokered certificates of deposit. At September 30, 2009, we had $61.0 million of FHLB advances outstanding with an additional $191.3 million available borrowing capacity, no borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank outstanding with an additional $131.1 million available borrowing capacity and $83.5 million in brokered certificates of deposit. If we were to become less than “well capitalized,” as defined by applicable OTS regulations, it would materially restrict our ability to acquire and retain brokered certificates of deposit and could reduce the maximum borrowing limits we currently have available through the FHLB and the Federal Reserve Bank. Additionally, adverse operating results or changes in industry conditions could lead to difficulty or an inability to access these additional funding sources. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. The building of market share through our branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues. We may continue to build market share in the St. Louis metropolitan area through our branching strategy. We opened three new branches during calendar year 2007. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally require a period of time to generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale. We have no assurance our new branches will be successful even after they have been established. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. Our future success and profitability is substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend, in part, upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management. We are especially dependent on a limited number of key management personnel, none of whom has an employment agreement with us, except for our chief executive officer. The loss of the chief executive officer and other senior executive officers could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 40 Our failure to continue to recruit and retain qualified loan originators could adversely affect our ability to compete successfully and affect our profitability. Our continued success and future growth depend heavily on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and motivated loan originators and other banking professionals. We compete against many institutions with greater financial resources both within our industry and in other industries to attract these qualified individuals. Our failure to recruit and retain adequate talent could reduce our ability to compete successfully and adversely affect our business and profitability. The limitations on dividends and repurchases imposed through our participation in the Capital Purchase Program may make our common stock a less attractive investment. On January 16, 2009, the United States Department of the Treasury purchased newly issued shares of our preferred stock as part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program’s Capital Purchase Program. As part of this transaction, we agreed to not increase the dividend paid on our common stock and to not repurchase shares of our common stock for a period of three years. These capital management devices contribute to the attractiveness of our common stock and limitations and prohibitions on such activities may make our common stock less attractive to investors. The limitations on executive compensation imposed through our participation in the Capital Purchase Program may restrict our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees, which could adversely affect our operations. As part of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, we agreed to be bound by certain executive compensation restrictions, including limitations on severance payments and the clawback of any bonus and incentive compensation that were based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provides more stringent limitations on severance pay and the payment of bonuses to certain officers and highly compensated employees. To the extent that any of these compensation restrictions limit our ability to provide a comprehensive compensation package to our key employees that is competitive in our market area, we may have difficulty in attracting, retaining and motivating our key employees, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The exercise of the warrant by the U. S. Treasury Department will dilute existing stockowners’ ownership interest and may make it more difficult for us to take certain actions that may be in the best interests of shareholders. In addition to the issuance of preferred shares, we also granted the U.S. Treasury Department a warrant to purchase 778,421 common shares at a price of $6.27 per share. If the U.S. Treasury Department exercises the entire warrant, it would result in a significant dilution to the ownership interest of our existing stockholders and dilute the earnings per share value of our common stock. Further, if the U.S. Treasury Department exercises the entire warrant, it will become the second largest shareholder of the Company. The U.S. Treasury Department has agreed that it will not exercise voting power with regard to the shares that it acquires by exercising the warrant. However, U.S. Treasury Department’s abstention from voting may make it more difficult for us to obtain shareholder approval for those matters that require a majority of total shares outstanding, such as a business combination involving the Company. 41 The terms governing the issuance of the preferred stock to Treasury may be changed, the effect of which may have an adverse effect on our operations. The Securities Purchase Agreement that we entered into with the U.S. Treasury Department provides that it may unilaterally amend any provision of the agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes in applicable federal statutes that may occur in the future. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 placed more stringent limits on executive compensation for participants in the TARP Capital Purchase Program and established a requirement that compensation paid to executives be presented to shareholders for a “non-binding” vote. Further changes in the terms of the transaction may occur in the future. Such changes may place further restrictions on our business or results of operation, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. These increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $700,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the FDIC has adopted a rule requiring that all institutions prepay their assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. This pre-payment is due on December 30, 2009. Under the rule, the assessment rate for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for 2010 is based on each institution’s total base assessment rate for the third quarter of 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 had been in effect for the entire third quarter, and the assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 will be equal to the modified third quarter assessment rate plus an additional 3 basis points. In addition, each institution’s base assessment rate for each period will be calculated using its third quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. Under this rule, we will be required to make a payment of approximately $7.3 million to the FDIC on December 30, 2009. We will record this payment as a prepaid expense and amortize the expense over the three year assessment period. 42 We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Pulaski Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS, its chartering authority, and by the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits. The Company is subject to regulation and supervision by the OTS. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of Pulaski Bank. The regulation and supervision by the OTS and the FDIC are not intended to protect the interests of investors in our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the adverse classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq that are applicable to us, have, in recent years, increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, including the costs of completing our audit and maintaining our internal controls. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. Additionally, we outsource our data processing to a third party. If our third party provider encounters difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third party, it will significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect our business operations. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our growth and profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and has occasionally forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. Many of our competitors are larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, smaller resources and smaller lending limits, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. In recent years, several new financial institutions have formed in the St. Louis area. These de novo banks may price their loans and deposits aggressively in order to attract customers. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance this strategy will be successful. 43 We may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Our ability to service our debt, pay dividends and otherwise pay our obligations as they come due is substantially dependent on capital distributions from Pulaski Bank, and these distributions are subject to regulatory limits and other restrictions. A substantial source of our income from which we service our debt, pay our obligations and from which we can pay dividends is the receipt of dividends from Pulaski Bank. The availability of dividends from Pulaski Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of Pulaski Bank, and other factors, that the applicable regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other payments is an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event that Pulaski Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from Pulaski Bank would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 44 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 