Risk Factors” and other parts of this Annual Report. You should not place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which are based on the information currently available to us and speak only as of the date on which this Annual Report was filed with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, your attention is directed to any further disclosures made on related subjects in our periodic reports filed with the SEC on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and Schedule 14A. EXPLANATORY NOTE Overview of Restatement In this Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 (this “Annual Report”), FairPoint Communications, Inc. (the “Company”) is restating its unaudited quarterly financial statements for the quarters ended March 31, 2010, June 30, 2010 and September 30, 2010 (collectively, the “2010 Interim Consolidated Financial Statements”). The Company’s previously filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2010, June 30, 2010 and September 30, 2010 (collectively, the “2010 Quarterly Reports”) impacted by the restatement have not been and will not be amended. Accordingly, the Company cautions you that certain information contained in the 2010 Quarterly Reports should no longer be relied upon, including the Company’s previously issued and filed 2010 Interim Consolidated Financial Statements and any financial information derived therefrom. In addition, the Company cautions you that other communications or filings related to the 2010 Interim Consolidated Financial Statements should no longer be relied upon. See note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report for more information regarding the impact of these adjustments on the 2010 Interim Consolidated Financial Statements. All of the Company’s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that will be filed for fiscal year 2011 will include restated results for the corresponding interim periods of 2010. All amounts in this Annual Report affected by the restatement adjustments reflect such amounts as restated. Background of the Restatement As previously disclosed in the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 22, 2011, management of the Company, with the concurrence of the Audit Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Audit Committee”), concluded that the Company would restate the 2010 Interim Consolidated Financial Statements. In connection with the preparation of the Company’s audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010, management has discovered accounting errors that impact the accuracy of the Company’s previously issued 2010 Interim Consolidated Financial Statements. These errors were detected in areas in which the Company had previously identified and disclosed material weaknesses in internal controls. The restated financial statements correct the following errors: Project Abandonment Adjustment Certain capital projects, principally a wireless broadband fixed asset project, had been abandoned but the write-off of all of the related capitalized costs had not occurred in a timely manner. Costs Capitalized to Property, Plant and Equipment Adjustment Due to a backlog of capital projects not yet closed, certain costs (principally labor expenses) remained capitalized to property, plant and equipment rather than expensed. Application of Overhead Costs Adjustment An error was discovered in the application of overhead costs to capital projects. 4 Table of Contents Each of the errors noted above resulted in an understatement of operating expenses and an overstatement of property, plant and equipment. Other Adjustments In addition, as part of this restatement, the Company also adjusted other items, including certain adjustments to revenue that were identified in connection with the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010, which individually were not considered to be material, but are material when aggregated with the three adjustments noted above. These adjustments are primarily related to (a) errors in the calculation of certain regulatory penalties, and (b) errors in revenue associated with certain customer billing, special project billings and intercompany/official lines. The restatement only affects the first three quarterly periods of 2010. The Company is currently reviewing the design of its controls and procedures in order to remediate the material weakness that prevented these accounting errors from being detected in a timely manner. While the Company implements a system solution, the Company has increased the resources devoted to manual processes to compensate for the material weakness. The material weakness has been identified and is further described in Part II — Item 9A — Controls and Procedures. The aggregate impact of these adjustments will result in an increase to the Company’s previously reported pre-tax loss for the nine month period ended September 30, 2010 of approximately $28.4 million, which is mainly attributable to a reduction to reported revenues of approximately $3.9 million, an increase to the Company’s previously reported expenses of approximately $26.8 million, a decrease in other expense of approximately $3.2 million and a $0.9 million increase of expense to reorganization items. The aggregate impact of the adjustments for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 will result in a reduction in net income of $28.4 million, net of taxes, and a decrease in the Company’s reported capital expenditures of approximately $15.4 million. Cash, as previously reported, for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 was not impacted by these adjustments. In addition, the Company expects that these adjustments will not have a material impact on the Company’s overall liquidity in the future. Except as required to reflect the effects of the restatement for the items set forth above, no additional modifications or updates have been made to the 2010 Interim Consolidated Financial Statements or the 2010 Quarterly Reports. For example, this Annual Report does not give effect to any subsequent events that may impact the 2010 Interim Consolidated Financial Statements or the 2010 Quarterly Reports. Other information not affected by the restatement remains unchanged and continues to reflect the disclosures made at the time of the original filing of the 2010 Quarterly Reports. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Except as otherwise required by the context, references in this Annual Report to: • “FairPoint Communications” refers to FairPoint Communications, Inc., excluding its subsidiaries; • “FairPoint,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to the combined business of FairPoint Communications, Inc. and all of its subsidiaries after giving effect to the merger on March 31, 2008, with Northern New England Spinco Inc. (“Spinco”), a subsidiary of Verizon Communications Inc. (“Verizon”), which transaction is referred to herein as the “Merger”; • “Northern New England operations” refers to the local exchange business acquired from Verizon and certain of its subsidiaries after giving effect to the Merger; • “Legacy FairPoint” or “Telecom Group” refers to FairPoint, exclusive of our acquired Northern New England operations; and • “Verizon Northern New England business” refers to the local exchange business of Verizon New England Inc. (“Verizon New England”) in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont and the customers of Verizon and its subsidiaries’ (other than Cellco Partnership) (collectively, the “Verizon Group”) related long distance and Internet service provider business in those states prior to the Merger. 5 Table of Contents Emergence from Chapter 11 Proceedings On October 26, 2009 (the “Petition Date”), FairPoint Communications and substantially all of its direct and indirect subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under chapter 11 of title 11 (“Chapter 11”) of the United States Code (the “Bankruptcy Code”) in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (the “Bankruptcy Court”) (Case No. 09-16335) (collectively, the “Chapter 11 Cases”). On January 13, 2011, the Bankruptcy Court entered an Order Confirming Debtors’ Third Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization Under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, dated as of December 29, 2010 (the “Confirmation Order”), which confirmed our Third Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization Under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code (as confirmed, the “Plan”). On January 24, 2011 (the “Effective Date”), we substantially consummated our reorganization through a series of transactions contemplated by the Plan, and the Plan became effective pursuant to its terms. Plan of Reorganization General The Plan provided for the cancellation and extinguishment on the Effective Date of all our equity interests outstanding on or prior to the Effective Date, including but not limited to all outstanding shares of our common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the “Old Common Stock”), options and contractual or other rights to acquire any equity interests. The Plan provided for: • (i) The lenders under the Credit Agreement, dated as of March 31, 2008, by and among FairPoint Communications, Spinco, Bank of America, N.A. as syndication agent, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as co-documentation agents, and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the “Pre-Petition Credit Facility”), (ii) the administrative agent under the Pre-Petition Credit Facility (other than certain indemnity and reimbursement rights of the administrative agent which survived) and (iii) holders of other claims against us arising under the Pre-Petition Credit Facility or ancillary agreements (including swap agreements) (collectively, “Pre-Petition Credit Facility Claims”) to receive the following in full and complete satisfaction of such Pre-Petition Credit Facility Claims: (i) a pro rata share of a $1,000.0 million term loan facility (the “Exit Term Loan”), (ii) a pro rata share of certain cash payments, (iii) a pro rata share of 23,620,718 shares of our new common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the “New Common Stock” or “Common Stock”) and (iv) a pro rata share of a 55% interest in the FairPoint Litigation Trust (the “Litigation Trust”); • Holders of allowed unsecured claims against FairPoint Communications, including the Pre-Petition Notes, as defined below, (the “FairPoint Communications Unsecured Claims”) to receive the following in full and complete satisfaction of such FairPoint Communications Unsecured Claims: (i) a pro rata share of 2,101,676 shares of New Common Stock, (ii) a pro rata share of a 45% interest in the Litigation Trust and (iii) a pro rata share of the warrants issued by us in connection with a Warrant Agreement (the “Warrant Agreement”) that we entered into with The Bank of New York Mellon, as warrant agent, on the Effective Date; and • Holders of allowed unsecured claims against our subsidiaries and holders of certain unsecured convenience claims against us to receive payment in full in cash in the amount of their allowed claims. In addition, the Plan also provided for: • Certain of our employees and a consultant of ours to receive (a) cash bonuses made pursuant to the FairPoint 6 Table of Contents Communications, Inc. 2010 Success Bonus Plan (the “Success Bonus Plan”) and/or (b) New Common Stock awards, consisting of restricted shares of New Common Stock and/or options to purchase shares of New Common Stock, pursuant to the terms of the FairPoint Communications, Inc. 2010 Long Term Incentive Plan (the “Long Term Incentive Plan”); and • Members of our board to be appointed on the Effective Date (the “New Board”) to receive options to purchase New Common Stock pursuant to the terms of the Long Term Incentive Plan. Finally, the Plan included certain discharges, releases, exculpations and injunctions that became effective on the Effective Date, including the following: • Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, all existing claims against, and equity interests in, us that arose prior to the Effective Date were released, terminated, extinguished and discharged; • In consideration of the services of the Released Parties (as defined in the Plan), we and all persons who held, or may have held, claims against, or equity interests in, us prior to the Effective Date released the Released Parties (as defined in the Plan) from claims, causes of action and liabilities related to us; • None of the Company, the Released Parties (as defined in the Plan) or the Litigation Trustee (as defined below) shall have or incur any liability relating to or arising out of the Chapter 11 Cases; and • Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, all persons are permanently enjoined from asserting claims, liabilities, causes of action, interest or remedies that are released or discharged pursuant to the Plan. Termination of Material Agreements On the Effective Date, in accordance with the Plan, we terminated, among others, the following material agreements: • The Pre-Petition Credit Facility (except that the Pre-Petition Credit Facility continues in effect solely for the purposes of allowing creditors under the Pre-Petition Credit Facility to receive distributions under the Plan and to preserve certain rights of the administrative agent), and all notes, security agreements, swap agreements and other agreements associated therewith; • Each of the respective indentures governing (i) the 13-1/8% Senior Notes due April 1, 2018 (the “Old Notes”), which were issued pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of March 31, 2008, by and between Spinco and U.S. Bank National Association, as amended (the “Old Indenture”), and (ii) the 13-1/8% Senior Notes due April 2, 2018 (the “New Notes” and, together with the Old Notes, the “Pre-Petition Notes”), which were issued pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of July 29, 2009, by and between FairPoint Communications, Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association (the “New Indenture”) (except to the extent to allow us or the relevant Pre-Petition Notes indenture trustee, as applicable, to make distributions pursuant to the Plan on account of claims related to such Pre-Petition Notes); and • Our Debtor-in-Possession Credit Agreement, dated as of October 27, 2009 (as amended, the “DIP Credit Agreement”), by and among FairPoint Communications and FairPoint Logistics, Inc. (“FairPoint Logistics,” and together with FairPoint Communications, the “DIP Borrowers”), certain financial institutions (the “DIP Lenders”) and Bank of America, N.A., as the administrative agent for the DIP Lenders, which was terminated by its conversion into the new $75.0 million Exit Revolving Facility, and all notes, security agreements and other agreements related to the DIP Credit Agreement. Exit Credit Agreement On the Effective Date, FairPoint Communications and FairPoint Logistics entered into a $1,075.0 million senior secured credit facility with a syndicate of lenders and Bank of America, N.A., as the administrative agent for the lenders, arranged by Banc of America Securities LLC (the “Exit Credit Agreement”). The Exit Credit Agreement is comprised of a $75.0 million revolving loan facility (the “Exit Revolving Facility”), which has a sub-facility providing for the issuance of up to $30.0 million of letters of credit, 7 Table of Contents and a $1,000.0 million term loan facility (the “Exit Term Loan” and together with the Exit Revolving Facility and such letter of credit facility, collectively, the “Exit Credit Agreement Loans”). On the Effective Date, we paid to the lenders providing the Exit Revolving Facility an aggregate fee equal to $1.5 million. Interest on the Exit Credit Agreement Loans accrues at an annual rate equal to either (a) the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (“LIBOR”) plus 4.50%, with a minimum LIBOR floor of 2.00% for the Exit Term Loan, or (b) a base rate plus 3.50% per annum in which base rate is equal to the highest of (x) Bank of America’s prime rate, (y) the federal funds effective rate plus 0.50% and (z) applicable LIBOR (with minimum LIBOR floor of 2.00%) plus 1.00%. In addition, we are required to pay a 0.75% per annum commitment fee on the average daily unused portion of the Exit Revolving Facility. The entire outstanding principal amount of the Exit Credit Agreement Loans is due and payable five years after the Effective Date (the “Exit Maturity Date”); provided that on the third anniversary of the Effective Date, we must elect (subject to the absence of events of default under the Exit Credit Agreement) to continue the maturity of the Exit Revolving Facility and must pay a continuation fee of $0.75 million and, on the fourth anniversary of the Effective Date, we must elect (subject to the absence of events of default under the Exit Credit Agreement) to continue the maturity of the Exit Revolving Facility and must pay a second continuation fee of $0.75 million. The Exit Credit Agreement requires quarterly repayments of principal of the Exit Term Loan after the first anniversary of the Effective Date. In the second and third years following the Effective Date, such quarterly payments shall each be in an amount equal to $2.5 million; during the fourth year following the Effective Date, such quarterly payments shall each be in an amount equal to $6.25 million; and for the first three quarters during the fifth year following the Effective Date, such quarterly payments shall each be in an amount equal to $12.5 million, with all remaining outstanding amounts owed in respect of the Exit Term Loan being due and payable on the Exit Maturity Date. The Exit Credit Agreement Loans are guaranteed by all of our current and future direct and indirect subsidiaries, other than (x) any subsidiary that is prohibited by applicable law from guaranteeing the obligations under the Exit Credit Agreement Loans and/or providing any security therefor without the consent of a state public utilities commission, and (y) any subsidiary of ours that is a controlled foreign corporation or a subsidiary that is held directly or indirectly by a controlled foreign corporation (the guarantor subsidiaries, together with us and FairPoint Logistics, are collectively referred to as the “Exit Financing Loan Parties”). The Exit Credit Agreement Loans as a whole are secured by liens upon substantially all existing and after-acquired assets of the Exit Financing Loan Parties, with first lien and payment waterfall priority for the Exit Revolving Facility and second lien priority for the Exit Term Loan. The Exit Credit Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and affirmative covenants. In addition, the Exit Credit Agreement contains restrictive covenants that limit, among other things, the ability of the Exit Financing Loan Parties to incur indebtedness, create liens, engage in mergers, consolidations and other fundamental changes, make investments or loans, engage in transactions with affiliates, pay dividends, make capital expenditures and repurchase capital stock. The Exit Credit Agreement also contains minimum interest coverage and maximum total leverage maintenance covenants, along with a maximum senior leverage covenant measured upon the incurrence of certain types of debt. The Exit Credit Agreement contains certain events of default, including failure to make payments, breaches of covenants and representations, cross defaults to other material indebtedness, unpaid and uninsured judgments, changes of control and bankruptcy events of default. The lenders’ commitments to fund amounts under the Exit Credit Agreement are subject to certain customary conditions. Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws Pursuant to the Plan, on the Effective Date, we filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware the Ninth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of FairPoint Communications and adopted our Second Amended and Restated By-laws (the “By-laws”). Departure and Appointment of Directors Pursuant to the Plan, as of the Effective Date, the following directors ceased to serve on our board of directors: Thomas F. Gilbane, Jr., Robert S. Lilien, Claude C. Lilly, Jane E. Newman and Michael R. Tuttle. As of the Effective Date, the number of directors on the New Board was fixed at eight, with Todd W. Arden, Dennis J. Austin, Edward D. Horowitz, Michael J. Mahoney, Michael K. Robinson, David L. Treadwell and Wayne Wilson becoming members of the 8 Table of Contents New Board and Mr. Horowitz was appointed to serve as chair of the New Board. Paul H. Sunu, our Chief Executive Officer, became a director of ours effective as of August 24, 2010 and will continue to serve as a director on the New Board. In accordance with the By-laws, the initial members of the New Board are expected to hold office until the first annual meeting of stockholders which will be held following the one year anniversary of the Effective Date. Thereafter, members of the New Board are expected to have one-year terms so that their terms will expire at each annual meeting of stockholders. Registration Rights Agreement On the Effective Date, we entered into a registration rights agreement (the “Registration Rights Agreement”) with Angelo, Gordon & Co., L.P. (“Angelo Gordon”), on behalf of and as investment manager of the persons set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement (together with Angelo Gordon, the “Ten Percent Holders”) that hold in the aggregate at least 10% of our New Common Stock. Under the Registration Rights Agreement, the Ten Percent Holders are entitled to request an aggregate of two registrations of the Ten Percent Holders’ registrable securities; provided that no such rights shall be demanded prior to the expiration of 180 days from the Effective Date. If the Ten Percent Holders in the aggregate hold less than 7.5% of the then outstanding New Common Stock, such holders’ rights under the Registration Rights Agreement shall terminate. Warrant Agreement On the Effective Date, we entered into the Warrant Agreement with the Bank of New York Mellon, as Warrant Agent. Pursuant to the Warrant Agreement, we issued or will issue the Warrants to purchase an aggregate of 3,582,402 shares of New Common Stock. The number of shares of New Common Stock issuable upon the exercise of the Warrants is subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events described in the Warrant Agreement. The initial exercise price applicable to the Warrants is $48.81 per share of New Common Stock for which the Warrants may be exercised. The exercise price applicable to the Warrants is subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events described in the Warrant Agreement. The Warrants may be exercised at any time on or before the seventh anniversary of the Effective Date. The Warrants, and all rights under the Warrants, are transferable as provided in the Warrant Agreement. Litigation Trust Agreement On the Effective Date, we entered into the FairPoint Litigation Trust Agreement (the “Litigation Trust Agreement”) with Mark E. Holliday, as litigation trustee (the “Litigation Trustee”), and the official committee of unsecured creditors appointed in the Chapter 11 Cases, pursuant to which the Litigation Trust was established for the benefit of specified holders of allowed claims and for the pursuit of certain causes of action against Verizon arising in connection with the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 15, 2007, by and among Verizon, Spinco and FairPoint Communications, Inc., as amended (the “Merger Agreement”). Pursuant to the Plan, we transferred such claims and causes of actions against Verizon related to the Merger Agreement to the Litigation Trust with title to such claims and causes of action being free and clear of all liens, charges, claims, encumbrances and interests except for the return to FairPoint Communications of any funds deposited in the Litigation Trust bank account. In addition, pursuant to the Plan, we transferred funds to the Litigation Trust to pay the reasonable costs and expenses associated with the administration of the Litigation Trust. Pursuant to the Litigation Trust Agreement, the Litigation Trustee may request additional funding for the Litigation Trust from us following the Effective Date; provided, that (i) any such additional funding will be subject to the approval of our New Board in its sole discretion, (ii) after giving effect to such additional funding, our cash on hand may not be less than $20.0 million (after taking into account the cash distributions to be made) and (iii) no proceeds of any borrowings under the Exit Revolving Facility may be used to fund such additional funding. The Litigation Trustee may prosecute the transferred claims and causes of action against Verizon as described in and authorized by the Plan and the Litigation Trust Agreement, make timely and appropriate distributions to the beneficiaries of the Litigation Trust and otherwise carry out the provisions of the Litigation Trust Agreement. New Long Term Incentive Plan and Success Bonus Plan As contemplated by the Plan, on the Effective Date, we were deemed to have adopted the Long Term Incentive Plan and the Success Bonus Plan. 9 Table of Contents On the Effective Date, in accordance with the Plan, (i) certain of our employees and a consultant of ours received (a) Success Bonuses of approximately $1.8 million in the aggregate pursuant to the terms of the Success Bonus Plan and/or (b) New Common Stock awards, consisting of restricted shares of New Common Stock and/or options to purchase shares of New Common Stock, pursuant to the terms of the Long Term Incentive Plan, and (ii) members of the New Board received restricted shares of New Common Stock and options to purchase New Common Stock pursuant to the terms of the Long Term Incentive Plan. The Success Bonuses were earned by our employees and were primarily based upon achieving certain performance measures. 3,134,603 shares of New Common Stock are reserved for awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan, of which stock options and restricted share awards were granted to certain of our employees, a consultant of ours, and members of the New Board on the Effective Date. Specifically, on the Effective Date, (a) 460,294 shares of stock were distributed to management-level and other employees and a consultant of ours, with 120,000 restricted shares issued to our Chief Executive Officer, 34,000 restricted shares issued to our Chief Financial Officer, 161,800 restricted shares issued to other members of our senior management and 66,794 unrestricted shares issued to David L. Hauser, our former Chief Executive Officer, who is currently a consultant, (b) 87,498 shares of restricted stock were awarded to the members of the New Board and (c) stock options were granted with an exercise price of $24.29 for the purchase of (1) 859,000 shares of New Common Stock by management-level and other employees, with 125,000 options to purchase New Common Stock granted to our Chief Executive Officer, 42,000 options to purchase New Common Stock granted to our Chief Financial Officer and 236,500 options to purchase New Common Stock granted to other members of our senior management and (2) 132,012 shares of New Common Stock by members of the New Board. Except for the unrestricted shares awarded to David L. Hauser, these stock option and restricted share awards vested to the extent of 25% on the Effective Date, and the remainder of these awards is expected to vest in three equal annual installments, commencing on the first anniversary of the Effective Date, with accelerated vesting upon (x) a change in control, or (y) a termination of an award holder’s employment either without cause (but only to the extent the vesting becomes at least 50%, plus an additional 25% for each year of the award holder’s employment after the first year after the Effective Date) or due to the award holder’s death or disability (but, for stock options, only to the extent vesting would have otherwise occurred within one year following such termination of employment). Mr. Hauser’s shares were 100% vested on the Effective Date. Regulatory Settlements In connection with the Chapter 11 Cases, we negotiated with representatives of the state regulatory authorities in each of Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont with respect to (i) certain regulatory approvals relating to the Chapter 11 Cases and the Plan and (ii) certain modifications to the requirements imposed by state regulatory authorities as a condition to approval of the Merger (each a “Merger Order,” and collectively, the “Merger Orders”). We agreed to regulatory settlements with the representatives for each of Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont regarding modification of each state’s Merger Order (each a “Regulatory Settlement,” and collectively, the “Regulatory Settlements”). For more information regarding the Regulatory Settlements, see “Item 1. Business — State Regulation — Regulatory Conditions to the Merger, as Modified in Connection with the Plan.” Reporting Requirements In connection with the Chapter 11 Cases, regardless of the Effective Date having occurred, we are required to continue to file quarterly operating reports with the Bankruptcy Court until the Chapter 11 Cases have closed. Such reports have been and will be prepared according to requirements of federal bankruptcy law and related rules. While these reports accurately provide then-current information required under the Bankruptcy Code, they are nonetheless unaudited, are prepared in a format different from that used in our consolidated financial statements filed under the securities laws and certain of this financial information may be prepared on an unconsolidated basis. Accordingly, we believe that the substance and format of these reports do not allow meaningful comparison with our regular publicly-disclosed consolidated financial statements. Moreover, the quarterly operating reports filed with the Bankruptcy Court are not prepared for the purpose of providing a basis for an investment decision relating to our securities, or for comparison with other financial information filed by us with the SEC. Plan Injunction Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, the Confirmation Order enjoined, or stayed, the continuation of any judicial or administrative proceedings or other actions against us or our properties to recover on, collect or secure a claim arising prior to the Effective Date. Thus, for example, creditor actions to obtain possession of property from us, or to create, perfect or enforce any lien against our property, or to collect on monies owed or otherwise exercise rights or remedies with respect to a claim arising prior to the Effective Date are enjoined except as provided in the Plan. 10 Table of Contents Fresh Start Accounting Upon our emergence from Chapter 11 on January 24, 2011, we adopted fresh start accounting in accordance with guidance under the applicable reorganization accounting rules, pursuant to which our reorganization value, which represents the fair value of the entity before considering liabilities, and approximates the amount a willing buyer would pay for the assets of the entity immediately after the reorganization, has been allocated to the fair value of assets in conformity with guidance under the applicable accounting rules for business combinations, using the purchase method of accounting for business combinations. The amount remaining after allocation of the reorganization value to the fair value of identified tangible and intangible assets will be reflected as goodwill, which is subject to periodic evaluation for impairment. In addition to fresh start accounting, our future consolidated financial statements will reflect all effects of the transactions contemplated by the Plan. Accordingly, our future consolidated statements of financial position and consolidated statements of operations will not be comparable in many respects to our consolidated statements of financial position and consolidated statements of operations for periods prior to our adoption of fresh start accounting and prior to accounting for the effects of the reorganization, including the consolidated financial statements contained herein. As a result, our financial and operating results for the year ended December 31, 2010 may not be indicative of future financial performance. Impact on Net Operating Loss Carryforwards (“NOLs”) Our NOLs will be substantially reduced by the recognition of gains on the discharge of certain debt pursuant to the Plan. Further, our ability to utilize our NOL carryforwards will be limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as the debt restructuring resulted in an ownership change. In general, following an ownership change, a limitation is imposed on the amount of pre-ownership change NOL carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income in each year following the ownership change. We plan to elect, pursuant to a special rule that is applicable to ownership changes resulting from a Chapter 11 reorganization, to calculate this annual limitation by increasing the value attributed to our stock prior to the ownership change by the amount of creditor claims surrendered or canceled during the reorganization. Specifically, the amount of the annual limitation would equal the “long-term tax-exempt rate” (published monthly by the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”)) for the month in which the ownership change occurs, which in our cases is 4.10%, multiplied by the lesser of (i) the value of the Company’s stock immediately after, rather than immediately before, the ownership change, and (ii) the value of the Company’s pre-change assets. Any increase in the value attributed to our stock resulting from the ownership change effectively would increase the annual limitation on our NOLs. Any portion of the annual limitation on pre-ownership change NOLs that is not used to reduce taxable income in a particular year may be carried forward and used in subsequent years. The annual limitation is increased by certain built-in gains recognized (or treated as recognized) during the five years following the ownership change (up to the total amount of built-in gain that existed at the time of the ownership change). The Company expects the limitations on our NOL carryforwards for the five years following an ownership change to be increased by built-in gains. The Company currently projects that all available NOL carryforwards, after giving effect to the reduction for debt discharged, will be utilized to offset future income within the NOL carryforward periods. Therefore, the Company does not expect to have NOL carryforwards after such time. Cutover-Related Issues From 2007 through January 2009, we were in the process of developing and deploying new systems, processes and personnel to replace those used by Verizon to operate and support our network and back-office functions in the Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont operations we acquired from Verizon in the Merger. These services were provided by Verizon under the Transition Services Agreement, dated as of January 15, 2007, which we entered into with certain subsidiaries of Verizon in connection with the Merger, as amended (the “Transition Services Agreement”). On January 30, 2009, we began transitioning certain back-office functions from Verizon’s integrated systems to newly created systems of the Company (the “Cutover”), and on February 9, 2009, we began operating our new platform of systems independently from the Verizon systems, processes and personnel. 11 Table of Contents Following the Cutover, many of these new systems functioned without significant problems, but a number of the key back-office systems, such as order entry, order management and billing, experienced certain functionality issues as well as issues with communication between the systems. As a result of these systems functionality issues, as well as work force inexperience on the new systems, we experienced increased handle time by customer service representatives for new orders, reduced levels of order flow-through across the systems, which caused delays in provisioning and installation, and delays in the processing of bill cycles and collection treatment efforts. These issues impacted customer satisfaction and resulted in large increases in customer call volumes into our customer service centers. While many of these issues were anticipated, the magnitude of difficulties experienced was beyond our expectations. Because of these Cutover issues, we have incurred incremental costs in order to operate our business, including third-party contractor costs and internal labor costs in the form of overtime pay. By the end of 2010, we have substantially stabilized the back-office systems. We continue to work on improving our processes and systems to support revenue growth, enhance customer service and increase operational efficiency. Restatements On April 30, 2010, we filed amendments to our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q/A for the quarters ended March 31, 2009, June 30, 2009 and September 30, 2009 (collectively, the “Amendments”) to reflect the effect of an accounting error, a one-time non-operating loss related to a disputed claim and certain billing and other adjustments. For the nine months ended September 30, 2009, the accounting error and the billing and other adjustments resulted in a $25.0 million overstatement of revenues, a $0.2 million understatement of operating expenses and a $9.6 million overstatement of other income in the financial data originally reported in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009, which was originally filed with the SEC on November 20, 2009. The restatement of the interim condensed consolidated financial statements contained in the Amendments (the “2009 Restatement”), which Restatement accounted for the foregoing overstatements and understatement, resulted in a reduction in net income of $21.8 million, net of income taxes, for the nine months ended September 30, 2009. For more information, see the Amendments as filed with the SEC. In this Annual Report, the Company is restating its unaudited quarterly financial statements for the quarters ended March 31, 2010, June 30, 2010 and September 30, 2010 (the “2010 Restatement”). The aggregate impact of these adjustments will result in an increase to the Company’s previously reported pre-tax loss for the nine month period ended September 30, 2010 of approximately $28.4 million, which is mainly attributable to a reduction to reported revenues of approximately $3.9 million, an increase to the Company’s previously reported expenses of approximately $26.8 million, a decrease in other expense of approximately $3.2 million and a $0.9 million increase of expense to reorganization items. The aggregate impact of the adjustments for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 will result in a reduction in net income of $28.4 million, net of taxes, and a decrease in the Company’s reported capital expenditures of approximately $15.4 million. See note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. Our Business We are a leading provider of communications services in rural and small urban communities, offering an array of services, including high speed data (“HSD”), Internet access, voice, television and broadband product offerings. We operate in 18 states with approximately 1.4 million access line equivalents (including voice access lines and HSD lines, which include digital subscriber lines (“DSL”), wireless broadband, cable modem and fiber-to-the-premises) in service as of December 31, 2010. We were incorporated in Delaware in February 1991 for the purpose of acquiring and operating incumbent telephone companies in rural and small urban markets. Many of our telephone companies have served their respective communities for over 75 years. Voice access lines are an important element of our business. Over the past several years, communications companies, including FairPoint, have experienced a decline in voice access lines due to increased competition, including competition from wireless carriers and cable television operators, increased availability of broadband services and challenging economic conditions. While voice access lines are expected to continue to decline, we expect to offset a portion of this lost revenue with growth in HSD revenue as we continue to build-out our network to provide HSD products to customers who did not previously have access to such products and to offer more competitive services to existing customers. In addition, due to the Cutover issues and the Chapter 11 Cases, we have lost significant market share in recent years. Our strategy will be to focus on leveraging our ubiquitous network in our Northern New England operations to regain market share, particularly in the business and wholesale markets and for data services. 12 Table of Contents We are subject to regulation primarily by federal and state governmental agencies. At the federal level, the Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”) generally exercises jurisdiction over the facilities and services of communications common carriers, such as FairPoint, to the extent those facilities are used to provide, originate or terminate interstate or international communications. State regulatory commissions generally exercise jurisdiction over common carriers’ facilities and services to the extent those facilities are used to provide, originate or terminate intrastate communications. In addition, pursuant to the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the “1996 Act”), which amended the Communications Act of 1934 (the “Communications Act”), state and federal regulators share responsibility for implementing and enforcing the domestic pro-competitive policies introduced by that legislation. Legacy FairPoint’s operations and our Northern New England operations operate under different regulatory regimes in certain respects. For example, concerning interstate access, all of the pre-Merger regulated interstate services of FairPoint were regulated under a rate-of-return model, while all of the rate-regulated interstate services provided by the Verizon Northern New England business were regulated under a price cap model. See “Part 1 — Item 1. Business — Regulatory Environment” for further information regarding rate-of-return and price cap models. On May 10, 2010, we received FCC approval to convert our Legacy FairPoint operations in Maine and Vermont to the price cap model. Our Legacy FairPoint operations in Maine and Vermont converted to price cap regulation on July 1, 2010. We have obtained permission to continue to operate our existing Legacy FairPoint incumbent local exchange carriers (“ILECs”) outside of Maine and Vermont under the rate-of-return regime until the FCC completes its general review of whether to modify or eliminate the “all-or-nothing” rule. Without this permission, the all-or-nothing rule would require that all of our regulated operations be operated under the price cap model for federal regulatory purposes. In addition, while all of our operations generally are subject to obligations that apply to all local exchange carriers (“LECs”), our non-rural operations are subject to additional requirements concerning interconnection, non-discriminatory network access for competitive communications providers and other matters, subject to substantial oversight by state regulatory commissions. In addition, the FCC has ruled that our Northern New England operations must comply with the regulations applicable to the Bell Operating Companies. Our rural and non-rural operations are also subject to different regimes concerning universal service. Our Services We offer a broad portfolio of high-quality communications services for residential and business customers in each of the markets in which we operate. We have a long history of operating in our markets and have a recognized identity within each of our service areas. Our operating companies are locally staffed, which enables us to efficiently and reliably provide an array of communications services to meet our customer needs. These include services traditionally associated with local telephone companies, as well as other services such as Internet, television and broadband enabled services. Based on our understanding of our local customers’ needs, we have attempted to be proactive by offering bundled services designed to simplify the customer’s purchasing and management process. Generation of Revenue We primarily generate revenue through: (i) the provision of our basic local telephone service to customers within our service areas; (ii) the provision of network access to interexchange carriers for origination and termination of interstate and intrastate long-distance phone calls and dedicated private line facilities; (iii) HSD services; (iv) Universal Service Fund high-cost loop and high-cost model payments; and (v) the provision of other services such as long-distance resale, other data and Internet and broadband enabled services, enhanced services, such as caller name and number identification, and billing and collection for interexchange carriers. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Annual Report for more information regarding our revenue sources. 13 Table of Contents Voice Services Local calling service enables the local customer to originate and receive an unlimited number of calls within a defined “exchange” area. Local calling services include basic local lines, private lines and switched data services. We provide local calling services to residential and business customers, generally for a fixed monthly charge and service charges for special calling features. In a rural LEC’s territory, the amount that we can charge a customer for local service is determined by rate proceedings involving the appropriate state regulatory authorities. We offer switched and dedicated long-distance services within our service areas through resale agreements with national interexchange carriers. In addition, through our wholly-owned subsidiary FairPoint Carrier Services, Inc., we offer wholesale long-distance services to communications providers that are not affiliated with us. Network Access Charges / Intercarrier Compensation Network access enables long-distance companies to utilize our local network to originate or terminate intrastate and interstate communications. Network access charges relate to long-distance, or toll calls, that typically involve more than one company in the provision of telephone service as well as to the termination of interexchange private line services. Since toll calls and private line services are generally billed to the customer originating the call or ordering the private line service, a mechanism is required to compensate each company providing services relating to the service. This mechanism is the access charge and we bill access charges to long-distance companies and other customers for the use of our facilities to access the customer, as described below. Intrastate Access Charges. We generate intrastate access revenue when an intrastate long-distance call involving an interexchange carrier is originated by a customer in one of our exchanges to a customer in another exchange in the same state, or when such a call is terminated to a customer in one of our local exchanges. We also generate intrastate access revenue when an interexchange carrier orders special access to connect interexchange private line services, such as HSD services, to a customer in one of our local exchanges. The interexchange carrier pays us an intrastate access payment for either terminating or originating the communication. We bill access charges relating to such service through our carrier access billing system and receive the access payment from the interexchange carrier. Access charges for intrastate services are regulated and approved by the state regulatory authority. Interstate Access Charges. We generate interstate access revenue when an interstate long-distance call is originated by a customer in one of our exchanges to a customer in another state, or when such a call is terminated to a customer in one of our exchanges. We also generate interstate access revenue when an interexchange carrier orders special access to connect interexchange private line services, such as HSD services, to a customer in one of our local exchanges. We bill interstate access charges in the same manner as we bill intrastate access charges; however, interstate access charges are regulated and approved by the FCC instead of the state regulatory authority. Universal Service Fund High-Cost Loop. The Universal Service Fund supplements the amount of local service revenue received by us to ensure that basic local service rates for customers in high-cost areas are consistent with rates charged in lower cost areas. The Universal Service Fund, which is funded by monthly fees charged to interexchange carriers and LECs, makes payments to us on a monthly basis based upon our cost support for LECs whose cost of providing the local loop connections to customers is significantly greater than the national average. For our rural service areas, these payments fluctuate based upon our average cost per loop compared to the national average cost per loop. For example, if the national average cost per loop increases and our operating costs (and average cost per loop) remain constant or decrease, the payments we receive from the Universal Service Fund would decline. Conversely, if the national average cost per loop decreases and our operating costs (and average cost per loop) remain constant or increase, the payments we receive from the Universal Service Fund would increase. For our non-rural service areas, these payments are based on cost models which estimate the cost to provide services and generate universal service support payments for high-cost areas. Universal Service Fund high-cost support revenue accounted for less than 2% of our total revenue in the year ended December 31, 2010. Data and Internet Services (“HSD”) We offer broadband Internet access via DSL technology, fiber-to-the-home technology, dedicated T-1 connections, Internet dial-up, high speed cable modem and wireless broadband. Customers can utilize this access in combination with customer owned equipment and software to establish a presence on the world wide web. In addition, we offer enhanced Internet services, which include obtaining IP addresses, basic web site design and hosting, domain name services, content feeds and web-based e-mail services. Our services include access to 24-hour, 7-day a week customer support. 14 Table of Contents Other Services We seek to capitalize on our LECs’ local presence and network infrastructure by offering enhanced services to customers, as well as billing and collection services for interexchange carriers. Enhanced Services. Our advanced digital switch and voicemail platforms allow us to offer enhanced services such as call waiting, call forwarding and transferring, three-way calling, automatic callback, call hold, caller name and number identification, voice mail, teleconferencing, video conferencing, store-and-forward fax, follow-me numbers, Centrex services and direct inward dial. Billing and Collection. Many interexchange carriers provide long-distance services to our LEC customers and may elect to use our billing and collection services. Our LECs charge interexchange carriers a billing and collection fee for each call record generated by the interexchange carrier’s customer. Directory Services. Through our local telephone companies, we publish telephone directories in the majority of our locations. These directories provide white page listings, yellow page listings and community information listings. We contract with leading industry providers to assist in the sale of advertising and the compilation of information, as well as the production, publication and distribution of these directories. Cable TV and Video. In certain of our markets, we offer video services to our customers by reselling DirectTV content and providing cable and IP television video-over-DSL. Our Markets Most of our 33 local exchange carriers operate as the ILEC in each of their respective markets. Approximately 63% of our voice access lines served residential customers as of December 31, 2010. Our business customers accounted for approximately 29% of our voice access lines as of December 31, 2010 and wholesale customers accounted for approximately 8% of our voice access lines as of December 31, 2010. In addition to voice access lines, we offer HSD service to our customers. At December 31, 2010, we had 289,745 HSD subscribers. We include HSD subscribers in our calculation of access line equivalents (including voice access lines and HSD lines, which include DSL, wireless broadband, cable modem and fiber-to-the-premises). Our operations are primarily focused on rural and small urban markets and are geographically concentrated in the northeastern United States. The following chart identifies the number of access line equivalents in each of our 18 states as of December 31, 2010: 15 Table of Contents State Access Line Equivalents Maine 507,118 New Hampshire 414,768 Vermont 284,469 Florida 50,343 New York 46,886 Washington 42,893 Missouri 13,823 Ohio 12,703 Virginia 8,520 Kansas 6,620 Illinois 6,142 Idaho 6,051 Pennsylvania 5,946 Oklahoma 4,190 Colorado 3,744 Other States(1) 3,074 Total: 1,417,290 (1) Includes Massachusetts, Georgia and Alabama. Sales and Marketing We have a customer-oriented marketing approach that emphasizes our advanced reliable service. We have approximately 4,000 employees that work and live in the markets in which we provide service, and our IP/Multiple Protocol Label Switched (“IP/MPLS”) network that is fully fiber optic based (the “Next Generation Network”, branded the “VantagePoint” network) in NNE has a level of coverage and capacity that we believe is unmatched in our marketplace. Each of our local exchange companies has a long history in the communities it serves. It is our policy to maintain and enhance the strong identity and reputation that each LEC enjoys in its markets, as we believe this is a significant competitive advantage. As we market new services, we will seek to continue to utilize our identity in order to attain higher recognition with potential customers. We have divided our efforts into four distinct markets: Residential, Small and Medium Business, Large Business/Government/Education and Wholesale. Marketing plans, distribution strategies, opportunities and tactics are tailored to each of these markets. Our sales organization utilizes customer service representatives to service our residential customers. This includes all the sales activities driven by our Residential marketing programs. Our other markets are handled by professional direct sales teams emphasizing account management and high touch customer service. All of our Small and Medium Business, Large Business/Government/Education and Wholesale customers have an assigned salesperson and in the case of our larger customers, a complete account team. Information Technology and Support Systems We have a customer-focused approach to information technology (“IT”) which allows for efficient business operations and supports revenue growth. Our approach is to simplify and standardize processes in order to optimize the benefits of our back-office and operation support systems. Specifically, our “simplify and optimize” initiative targets the reduction of redundant and manual processes to reduce cycle times, improve efficiency and deliver enhanced customer service. Our back-office and operations support systems are a combination of integrated off-the-shelf packages that have been customized to support our operations as well as fully outsourced third party solutions. Our Northern New England carrier access billing and our Telecom Group operations are supported by fully outsourced third-party platforms. All other back-office and operations support systems, including billing platforms, are maintained internally. 16 Table of Contents Our systems are supported by a combination of employees and contractors. Our internal IT group supports data center operations, data network operations, systems analysis and custom software development. We use professional services firms for the majority of software maintenance and enhancements. In the future, we expect to increase our IT staff to transition certain analysis, design and testing functions from third parties to our own internal organization. Network Architecture and Technology Rapid and significant changes in technology are underway in the communications industry. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to technological changes. With this in mind, we are in the process of building and expanding our advanced Next Generation Network in our Northern New England operations. The Next Generation Network is an IP/MPLS network that is fully fiber optic based. We believe this network architecture will enable us to efficiently respond to these technological changes. Our LEC network consists of 95 host central offices and 417 remote central offices, all with advanced digital switches. 99.5% of our central offices are served by fiber optic facilities which we own. The primary interconnection with other incumbent carriers is also fiber optic. Our outside plant consists of both fiber optic and copper distribution networks. Our fiber optic transport system is a combination of Synchronous Optical Network (“SONET”), Dense Wave Division Multiplexing (“DWDM”), and Ethernet transport capable of satisfying customer demand for high bandwidth transport services. This system supports advanced services including Carrier Ethernet Services (“CES”) and legacy data products such as Frame Relay and Asynchronous Transfer Mode (“ATM”), facilitating delivery of advanced services as demand warrants. In our LEC markets, DSL-enabled access technology has been deployed to provide significant broadband capacity to our customers. As of December 31, 2010, nearly all of our central offices are capable of providing broadband services through DSL technology, cable modem and wireless broadband. Competition We face intense competition from a variety of sources for our voice and Internet services in most of the areas we now serve, and expect that such competition will continue to intensify in the future. Regulations and technology change quickly in the communications industry, and changes in these factors historically have had, and may in the future have, a significant impact on competitive dynamics. In particular, the 1996 Act and other actions taken by the FCC and state regulatory authorities have promoted competition in the provision of communications services. In addition, many of our competitors have access to a larger workforce and have substantially greater name-brand recognition and financial, technological and other resources than we do. Although many of the competitive challenges now confronting larger regulated telephone companies are limited in the rural areas we serve, these challenges are more prevalent in the small urban areas we serve. Sources of competition include, but are not limited to, the following: Wireless Competitors In most of our service areas, we face competition from wireless carriers for voice services. As technology and economies of scale improve, competition from wireless carriers is expected to continue to increase. In addition, the FCC’s requirement that telephone companies offer wireline-to-wireless number portability has increased the competition we face from wireless carriers. Our Northern New England operations service areas represent both rural and small urban markets and tend to have better wireless coverage compared to Legacy FairPoint’s predominantly rural service areas. Wireless competition is more robust in these NNE service areas. However, if and to the extent wireless service improves in the areas we serve, and specifically in the Legacy FairPoint service areas, we expect to face further competition from wireless providers. Wireline and Cable Competitors We also face competition from wireline and cable competitors, such as competitive local exchange carriers (“CLECs”) and cable television providers. CLECs either maintain their own facilities or lease services at wholesale rates. 17 Table of Contents CLECs not only provide competition for our voice services, but most also provide Internet services at competitive speeds and prices. In addition, CLECs are capable of offering video services in competition with us and we expect that they will increasingly do so in the future. Cable television companies have aggressively entered the communications market by upgrading their networks with fiber optics and installing facilities to provide voice, video and Internet services to residential and business customers. Cable high-speed Internet services are generally competitive with our Internet services in both pricing and the speed of such services. We estimate that as of December 31, 2010, most of the customers that we serve had access to voice and Internet services through a cable television company. The FCC’s requirement that telephone companies offer wireline-to-wireline number portability has increased the competition we face from both CLECs and cable television providers. In addition, CLECs and cable television companies have the ability to bundle voice, high-speed Internet and video services to their customers, which has and will likely continue to intensify the competition we face from these providers. Electric utilities could also become a competitive threat to voice and high-speed Internet services, since they have existing assets and access to low cost capital that could allow them to enter a service area rapidly and accelerate network development. Other Competitors VoIP. VoIP service is increasingly being embraced by all industry participants. VoIP service involves the routing of voice calls over the public Internet or private IP networks through packets of data instead of transmitting the calls over the existing public switched telephone network. This routing mechanism may give VoIP service providers a cost advantage, and enable them to offer services to end users at a lower price. While current VoIP applications typically complete calls using ILEC infrastructure and networks, as VoIP services obtain acceptance and market penetration and technology advances further, a greater number of calls may be placed without utilizing the public switched telephone network. The proliferation of VoIP, particularly to the extent these calls do not utilize our LECs’ networks or are accorded different regulatory treatment, may result in an erosion of our customer base and loss of voice services and network access revenues. Internet Service Providers. In addition to wireline and cable companies, our Internet services also compete with Internet service providers. In addition to Internet access, many of these companies, such as Microsoft and Yahoo!, offer online content services consisting of access to closed, proprietary information networks. Satellite. Satellite companies also currently offer broadband access to the Internet, primarily to remote, unserved locations, and competition from satellite companies may intensify in the future. Strategic Alliances. Wireline, wireless, cable and utility companies have formed and may continue to form strategic alliances to offer bundled services in our service areas. Competition from these strategic alliances could increase if applications for certain broadband development funding submitted by certain of these strategic alliances under the Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “Recovery Act”) are approved and the networks funded thereby are built. Recipients of Government Stimulus. Municipalities, public utilities and private businesses receiving government stimulus funds may also choose to enter the high-speed Internet business. Other. Our market is rapidly growing and providers of other emerging technologies and alternative communication services continue to enter our markets. Employees As of December 31, 2010, we employed a total of 4,032 employees, 2,578 of whom were covered by fourteen collective bargaining agreements. As of December 31, 2010, 113 of our employees were covered by six collective bargaining agreements that expire during the next calendar year. We believe the state of our relationship with our union and non-union employees is generally good. 18 Table of Contents Intellectual Property We believe we own or have the right to use all of the intellectual property that is necessary for the operation of our business as we currently conduct it. Regulatory Environment We are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation. At the federal level, the FCC generally exercises jurisdiction over facilities and services of common carriers, such as us, to the extent those facilities are used to provide, originate or terminate interstate or international communications. State regulatory commissions generally exercise jurisdiction over common carriers’ facilities, services and rates to the extent those facilities are used to provide, originate or terminate intrastate communications. In addition, pursuant to local competition provisions of the Communications Act, as amended by the 1996 Act, state and federal regulators share responsibility for implementing and enforcing certain pro-competitive policies. In particular, state regulatory agencies exercise substantial oversight over the offerings of ILECs to competing carriers of interconnection and non-discriminatory access to certain facilities and services designated as essential for local competition. Legacy FairPoint and our Northern New England operations operate under different regulatory regimes in certain respects. For example, concerning interstate access, all of the pre-Merger regulated interstate services of FairPoint were regulated under a rate-of-return model, while all of the rate-regulated interstate services provided by the Verizon Northern New England business were regulated under a price cap model. On May 10, 2010, we received FCC approval to convert our Legacy FairPoint operations in Maine and Vermont to the price cap model. Our Legacy FairPoint operations in Maine and Vermont converted to price cap regulation on July 1, 2010. Under price cap regulation, limits are imposed on a company’s interstate rates without regard to its costs or revenue requirements. These limits are adjusted annually based on FCC-specified formulae, such as for inflation, as well as through occasional regulatory proceedings, but will generally give a company flexibility to adjust its rates within these limits. In contrast, rate-of-return regulation permits a company to set rates based upon its allowed costs and projected revenue requirement, including an authorized rate-of-return determined by the FCC. We have obtained permission to continue to operate our Legacy FairPoint ILECs outside of Maine and Vermont under the rate-of-return regime until the FCC completes its general review of whether to modify or eliminate the “all-or-nothing” rule. Without this permission, the all-or-nothing rule would require that all of our regulated operations be operated under the price cap model for federal regulatory purposes. In addition, while all of our operations generally are subject to obligations that apply to all LECs, our non-rural operations are subject to additional requirements concerning interconnection, non-discriminatory network access for competitive communications providers and other matters, subject to substantial oversight by state regulatory commissions. In addition, the FCC has ruled that our Northern New England operations must comply with the regulations applicable to the Bell Operating Companies. Our rural and non-rural operations are also subject to different regimes concerning universal service. Federal Regulation We are required to comply with the Communications Act which requires, among other things, that telecommunications carriers offer telecommunications services at just and reasonable rates and on terms and conditions that are not unreasonably discriminatory. The Communications Act was amended in 1996 by the addition of provisions intended to promote competition in the provision of local services, and to lead to deregulation as markets become more competitive. On March 16, 2010, the FCC submitted the National Broadband Plan (the “NBP”) to the United States Congress (“Congress”). The NBP is a plan to bring high-speed Internet services to the entire country, including remote and high-cost areas. In accordance with the NBP, the FCC has commenced several rulemakings that concern, among other things, reforming high-cost and low-income programs to promote universal service, to make those funds more efficient while promoting broadband communications in areas that otherwise would be unserved. We also expect the FCC to undertake new rulemakings addressing changes to interstate access charges and other forms of intercarrier compensation, classification of broadband providers and other obligations under federal law. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or the effect that resulting decisions may have on our business. 19 Table of Contents Interstate Access Charges Our local exchange subsidiaries receive compensation from long-distance telecommunications providers for the use of their network to originate and terminate interstate inter-exchange traffic. With respect to interstate traffic, the FCC regulates the prices we may charge for this purpose, referred to as access charges, as a combination of flat monthly charges paid by end-users, usage-sensitive charges paid by long-distance carriers, and recurring monthly charges for use of dedicated facilities paid by long-distance carriers. The amount of access charge revenue that we will receive is subject to change. Our ILEC operations in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont and, effective July 1, 2010, our Legacy FairPoint operations in Maine and Vermont, are subject to price cap regulation of access charges. Under price cap regulation, limits are imposed on a company’s interstate rates without regard to its costs or revenue requirements. These limits are adjusted annually based on FCC-specified formulae, such as for inflation, as well as through occasional regulatory proceedings, but will generally give us flexibility to adjust our rates within these limits. In contrast, our rural operations are subject to interstate rate-of-return regulation, permitting us to set rates for those operations based upon our allowed costs and projected revenue requirement, including an authorized rate-of-return of 11.25%. In an order dated January 25, 2008, the FCC granted our request for a waiver of the “all or nothing” rule, which allows us to continue to operate under both of these regimes until the FCC completes its general review of whether to modify or eliminate the all or nothing rule, or makes other comprehensive changes to its access charge rules. The FCC has made various reforms to the existing rate structure for access charges, which, combined with the development of competition, have generally caused the aggregate amount of switched access charges paid by long-distance carriers to decrease over time. Other reform proposals are now pending, and additional reforms were recommended in the NBP. These proposals could require ILECs to convert all rate-of-return operations to price cap, or to restructure, reduce, or eliminate access charges and recover the lost revenue through end-user charges or Universal Service Support. The FCC has also sought comment on whether access charges should apply to VoIP or other IP-based service providers. The FCC also is considering whether to restrict some of the pricing flexibility enjoyed by price cap ILECs, which includes some of our Northern New England operations. We cannot predict what changes, if any, the FCC may eventually adopt and the effect that any of these changes may have on our business. Universal Service Support Current FCC rules provide different methodologies for the determination of universal service payments to rural and non-rural carriers. In general, the rules provide high-cost support to rural carriers where the company’s actual costs exceed a nationwide benchmark level. High-cost support for non-rural carriers, on the other hand, is determined by a nationwide cost proxy model. Under the current FCC rules, our non-rural operations receive support under the non-rural model methodology in Maine and Vermont. The FCC’s current rules for support to high-cost areas served by non-rural LECs were remanded by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, which had found that the FCC had not adequately justified these rules. In 2010, in response to the Tenth Circuit remand, the FCC issued an order which justified its prior conclusion. The FCC is also considering proposals to update the proxy model upon which non-rural high-cost funding is determined, as well as other possible reforms to the high-cost support mechanisms for rural and non-rural carriers, including redirecting the fund over time to support broadband communications in areas that otherwise would be unserved. The high-cost support payments that are received from the Universal Service Fund are intended to support our operations in rural and high cost markets. Under current FCC regulations, the total Universal Service Fund support available for high-cost loops operated by rural carriers is subject to a cap. The FCC prescribes the “national average cost per loop” each year to keep the total available funding within the cap. Payments from the Universal Service Fund will fluctuate based upon our average cost per loop compared with the national average cost per loop. For example, if the national average cost per loop increases and our operating costs and average cost per loop remain constant or decrease, the payments we will receive from the Universal Service Fund will decline. Based on historical trends, we believe the total high-cost support payments from the Universal Service Fund to our rural operations likely will continue to decline. Universal Service Support high-cost support revenue accounted for less than 2% of our total revenue in the year ended December 31, 2010. Universal Service Fund disbursements may be distributed only to carriers that are designated as “eligible telecommunications carriers” (“ETCs”) by a state regulatory commission. All of our non-rural and rural LECs are designated as ETCs. 20 Table of Contents On May 1, 2008, the FCC adopted an interim emergency cap on the amount of high-cost support that competitive ETCs may receive, pending the FCC’s adoption of comprehensive reform. Such support for each state was capped at the level of support that competitive ETCs were eligible to receive during March 2008 on an annualized basis. The cap became effective on August 1, 2008 and is expected to constrain growth in the total amount of high-cost support available to competitive ETCs. The FCC is currently considering other revisions to the distribution mechanisms for Universal Service Fund high-cost support. The proposals under consideration include using “reverse auctions” to determine recipients of rural high-cost support, using a model to determine the appropriate level of support in all areas where there is no private sector business case for providing voice and broadband services and accelerating targeted funding toward broadband deployment in unserved areas. The FCC is also seeking comment on near-term proposals to reduce current high-cost fund payments. These and other proposed rule changes could reduce our support in the future, reduce the support available to our competitors or provide for new support, such as for broadband services. We cannot predict what course the FCC will take on universal service distribution reform, but it is possible that the remedy selected by the FCC could materially affect the amount of universal service funding we will receive. If our rural LECs were unable to receive Universal Service Fund payments, or if those payments were reduced, many of our rural LECs would be unable to operate as profitably as they have historically in the absence of the implementation of increases in charges for other services. Moreover, if we raise prices for services to offset loss of Universal Service Fund payments, the increased pricing of our services may disadvantage us competitively in the marketplace, resulting in additional potential revenue loss. We receive additional support under the FCC’s rules in the forms of Interstate Access Support (“IAS”) and Interstate Common Line Support (“ICLS”). We receive IAS support in all three of our federal price cap study areas (Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont). We also continue to receive ICLS support in our rate-of-return study areas. These forms of support replace revenues previously collected through interstate access charges. The FCC is seeking comment on a proposal to eliminate IAS and transfer the funding to a “Connect America Fund” for broadband (see below). We have no assurance that either of these support programs will remain unchanged if the FCC revises its rules governing universal service and intercarrier compensation. We also benefit indirectly from support to low-income users under the Lifeline and Linkup universal service programs. The FCC has asked the Federal-State Joint Board for Universal Service to recommend changes to these low-income programs to address, among other things, access to broadband and eligibility for support. We have no assurance whether we or our competitors will be affected by any such changes. On February 9, 2011, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking and Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking In the Matters of Connect America Fund, A National Broadband Plan for our Future, Establishing Just and Reasonable Rates for Local Exchange Carriers, High-cost Universal Service Support, Developing a Unified Intercarrier Compensation Regime, Federal-State Board on Universal Service, and Lifeline and Linkup (“NPRM on ICC/USF”). This NPRM on ICC/USF proposes significant changes to all intercarrier compensation and USF funding for local exchange carriers, such as us. In general, the NPRM on ICC/USF proposes to retarget existing USF funding to a new program called Connect America Fund (“CAF”), which is designed to increase availability of broadband services to areas which are currently unserved. It proposes to reduce and/or eliminate intercarrier compensation for voice traffic, in anticipation of an all Internet Protocol (“IP”) network. Intercarrier compensation includes state and interstate switched access charges and reciprocal compensation payments for traffic exchanged between LECs. The FCC proposes both short-term and long-term changes and transitions from the current regime to the new regime. It is not known what changes the FCC will adopt in this proceeding, when the changes will occur, or what impacts this will have on our business. Universal Service Contributions Federal universal service programs are currently funded through a surcharge on interstate and international end-user telecommunications revenues. Declining long-distance revenues, the popularity of service bundles that include local and long-distance services, and the growth in size of the fund, due primarily to increased funding to competitive ETCs, all prompted the FCC to consider alternative means for collecting this funding. As an interim step, the FCC has ordered that providers of certain VoIP services must contribute to federal universal service funding. The FCC also increased the percentage of revenues subject to federal universal service contribution obligations that wireless providers may use as their methodology for funding universal service. One alternative under consideration would be to impose surcharges on telephone numbers or network connections instead of carrier revenues. Any further change in the current assessment mechanism could result in a change in the total contribution that LECs, wireless carriers or others must make and that would be collected from customers. We cannot predict whether the FCC or Congress will require modification to any of the universal contribution rules, or the ultimate impact that any such modification might have on us or our customers. 21 Table of Contents Local Service Competition The 1996 Act provides, in general, for the removal of barriers to market entry in order to promote competition in the provision of local telecommunications and information services. As a result, competition in our local exchange service areas will continue to increase from CLECs, wireless providers, cable companies, Internet service providers, electric companies and other providers of network services. Many of these competitors have a significant market presence and brand recognition, which could lead to more competition and a greater challenge to our future revenue growth. Under the 1996 Act, all LECs, including both ILECs and CLECs, are required to: (i) allow others to resell their services; (ii) ensure that customers can keep their telephone numbers when changing carriers, referred to as local number portability; (iii) ensure that competitors’ customers can use the same number of digits when dialing and receive nondiscriminatory access to telephone numbers, operator service, directory assistance and directory listing; (iv) ensure competitive access to telephone poles, ducts, conduits and rights of way; and (v) compensate competitors for the cost of completing calls to competitors’ customers from the other carrier’s customers. In addition to these obligations, ILECs are subject to additional requirements to: (i) interconnect their facilities and equipment with any requesting telecommunications carrier at any technically feasible point; (ii) unbundle and provide nondiscriminatory access to certain network elements, referred to as unbundled network elements (“UNEs”), including some types of local loops and transport facilities, at regulated rates and on nondiscriminatory terms and conditions, to competing carriers that would be “impaired” without them; (iii) offer their retail services for resale at wholesale rates; (iv) provide reasonable notice of changes in the information necessary for transmission and routing of services over the ILEC’s facilities or in the information necessary for interoperability; and (v) provide, at rates, terms and conditions that are just, reasonable and nondiscriminatory, for the physical co-location of equipment necessary for interconnection or access to UNEs at the ILEC’s premises. Competitors are required to compensate the ILEC for the cost of providing these services. Our non-rural operations are subject to all of the above requirements. In addition, our non-rural operations are subject to additional unbundling obligations that apply only to Bell Operating Companies. In contrast to the unbundling obligations that apply generally to ILECs, these Bell Operating Company-specific requirements mandate access to certain facilities (such as certain types of local loops and inter-office transport, and local circuit switching) even where other carriers would not be “impaired” without them. Our Legacy FairPoint rural operations are exempt from the additional ILEC requirements until the applicable rural carrier receives a bona fide request for these additional services and the applicable state authority determines that the request is not unduly economically burdensome, is technically feasible and is consistent with the universal service objectives set forth in the 1996 Act. This exemption will be effective for all of our existing Legacy FairPoint rural ILEC operations, except in Florida where the legislature has determined that all ILECs are required to provide the additional services as prescribed in the 1996 Act. If a request for any of these additional services is filed by a potential competitor with respect to one of our other existing rural operating territories, we will likely ask the relevant state regulatory commission to retain the exemption. If a state regulatory commission rescinds an exemption in whole or in part and does not allow us adequate compensation for the costs of providing the interconnection, our costs could increase significantly; we could face new competitors in that state; and we could suffer a significant loss of customers and incur a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, we could incur additional administrative and regulatory expenses as a result of the interconnection requirements. Any of these could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Under the 1996 Act, rural LECs may request from state regulatory commissions suspension or modification of any or all of the requirements described above. A state regulatory commission may grant such a request if it determines that doing so is consistent with the public interest and is necessary to avoid a significant adverse economic impact on communications users, and where imposing the requirement would be technically infeasible or unduly economically burdensome. If a state regulatory commission denies all or a portion of a request made by one of our rural LECs, or does not allow us adequate compensation for the costs of providing interconnection, our costs could increase and our revenues could decline. In addition, with such a denial, competitors could enjoy benefits that would make their services more attractive than if they did not receive interconnection rights. With the exception of certain requests by us to modify the May 24, 2004 implementation date for local number portability in certain states, we have not encountered a need to file any requests for suspension or modification of the interconnection requirements. 22 Table of Contents Long-Distance Operations The FCC has required that ILECs that provide interstate long-distance services originating from their local exchange service territories must do so in accordance with “non-structural separation” rules. These rules have required that our long-distance affiliates (i) maintain separate books of account, (ii) not own transmission or switching facilities jointly with the local exchange affiliate and (iii) acquire any services from their affiliated LEC at tariffed rates, terms and conditions. The Bell Operating Companies are subject to a different set of rules allowing them to offer both long-distance and local exchange services in the regions where they operate as Bell Operating Companies, subject to certain conditions with which we comply. In addition, our operations have been obligated under the FCC’s “equal access” scripting requirement to read new customers a list of all available long-distance carriers presented in random order. Not all of our competitors must comply with these requirements. Therefore, these requirements may put us at a competitive disadvantage in the interstate long-distance market. The FCC recently ruled that the Bell Operating Companies need no longer comply with these rules for their long-distance services in order to avoid classification as a dominant carrier, and that their ILEC affiliates need no longer comply with the separation rules for their long-distance services, provided that they comply with certain existing and additional safeguards, such as providing special access performance metrics, offering low-volume calling plans and making available certain monthly usage information on customers’ bills. The FCC also has ruled that the Bell Operating Companies and their ILEC affiliates are no longer required to comply with the equal access scripting requirement. However, until similar relief is granted in each state by the state PUC, FairPoint will continue to comply with the equal access scripting requirements. Other Obligations under Federal Law We are subject to a number of other statutory and regulatory obligations at the federal level. For example, the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”), requires telecommunications carriers to modify equipment, facilities and services to allow for authorized electronic surveillance based on either industry or FCC standards. Under CALEA and other federal laws, we may be required to provide law enforcement officials with call records, content or call identifying information, pursuant to an appropriate warrant or subpoena. The FCC limits how carriers may use or disclose customer proprietary network information (“CPNI”), and specifies what carriers must do to safeguard CPNI provided to third parties. Congress has enacted, and state legislatures are considering, legislation to criminalize the unauthorized sale of call detail records and to further restrict the manner in which carriers make such information available. In addition, if we seek in the future to acquire companies that hold FCC authorizations, in most instances we will be required to seek approval from the FCC prior to completing those acquisitions. The FCC has broad authority to condition, modify, cancel, terminate or revoke operating authority for failure to comply with applicable federal laws or rules, regulations and policies of the FCC. Fines or other penalties also may be imposed for such violations. Broadband and Internet Regulation The FCC has adopted a series of orders that recognize the competitive nature of certain services that utilize advanced technologies. With respect to our local network facilities, the FCC has determined that certain unbundling requirements do not apply to certain fiber facilities such as certain types of loops and packet switches. The FCC has ruled that dedicated broadband Internet access services offered by telephone companies (using DSL technology), cable operators, electric utilities and terrestrial wireless providers qualify as largely deregulated information services. LECs or their affiliates may offer the underlying broadband transmission services that are used as an input to dedicated broadband Internet access services through private carriage arrangements on negotiated commercial terms. The FCC order also allows rural rate-of-return carriers, including most of our Legacy FairPoint operations, the option to continue providing DSL service as a common carrier (status quo) offering. The FCC also has concluded that broadband Internet access service providers must comply with CALEA. Despite the 23 Table of Contents FCC’s previous ruling that broadband Internet access is an information service, the FCC continues to evaluate this finding and is expected to issue a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“NPRM”) that could re-regulate broadband Internet access. We can provide no assurance about the outcome of such NPRM and how it may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, a Verizon petition asking the FCC to forbear from applying common carrier regulation to certain broadband services sold primarily to larger business customers was deemed granted by operation of law on March 19, 2006 when the FCC did not deny the petition by the statutory deadline. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit has rejected a challenge to that outcome. The forbearance deemed granted to Verizon has been extended to our Northern New England operations by the FCC in its order approving the Merger. In October 2007, the FCC stated its intention to define more precisely the scope of forbearance obtained by Verizon, but it has not yet done so. The FCC has imposed particular regulatory obligations on IP-based telephony. It has concluded that interconnected VoIP providers must comply with CALEA; provide enhanced 911 emergency calling capabilities; comply with certain disability access requirements; comply with the FCC’s rules protecting CPNI; provide local number portability; and pay regulatory fees. Recently there have also been discussions among policymakers concerning “net neutrality,” or the potential requirement for non-discriminatory treatment of traffic over broadband networks. The FCC released a statement of principles favoring customer choice of content and services available over broadband networks. It has adopted open Internet access rules applicable to all broadband Internet access providers. However, we cannot predict what impact, if any, this may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. The FCC has preempted some state regulation of VoIP. Additional rules and regulations may be extended to the Internet and to broadband Internet access. A variety of proposals are under consideration in both federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies. For example, the FCC is considering reclassifying the transport component of broadband service as a “telecommunications service.” We cannot predict whether the outcome of pending or future proceedings will prove beneficial or detrimental to our competitive position. On February 17, 2009, Congress enacted the Recovery Act which, among other programs, provides for $7.2 billion for broadband development in unserved and underserved areas of the United States. We applied for stimulus funding under the Recovery Act, but did not receive any grant funding. There have recently been several grants of stimulus funding under the Recovery Act in our Northern New England and other service areas. Any networks built with these funds in such areas will at some point provide competition for our products and services. State Regulation The local service rates and intrastate access charges of substantially all of our telephone subsidiaries are regulated by state regulatory commissions which typically have the power to grant and revoke franchises authorizing companies to provide communications services. In some states, our intrastate long-distance rates are also subject to state regulation. States typically regulate local service quality, billing practices and other aspects of our business as well. Most state commissions have traditionally regulated LEC pricing through cost-based rate-of-return regulation. In recent years, however, state legislatures and regulatory commissions in most of the states in which our telephone companies operate have either reduced the regulation of LECs or have announced their intention to do so, and we expect this trend will continue. Such relief may take the form of mandatory deregulation of particular services or rates; or it may consist of optional alternative forms of regulation (“AFOR”), which may involve price caps or other flexible pricing arrangements. Some of these deregulatory measures are described in greater detail below. We believe that some AFOR plans allow us to offer new and competitive services faster than under the traditional regulatory regimes. The following summary addresses significant regulatory actions by regulatory agencies in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont that have affected or are expected to affect our Northern New England operations: 24 Table of Contents Regulatory Conditions to the Merger, as Modified in Connection with the Plan As required by the Plan as a condition precedent to the effectiveness of the Plan, we were required to obtain certain regulatory approvals, including approvals from the public utility commissions in Maine and New Hampshire and the Vermont Public Service Board (the “Vermont Board”). In connection with the Chapter 11 Cases, we negotiated with representatives of the state regulatory authorities in each of Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont with respect to (i) certain regulatory approvals relating to the Chapter 11 Cases and the Plan and (ii) the Merger Orders. We agreed to the Regulatory Settlements described below. New Hampshire Regulatory Settlement On July 7, 2010, the New Hampshire Public Utilities Commission (“NHPUC”) provided its approvals for New Hampshire, including of the Regulatory Settlement for New Hampshire (the “New Hampshire Regulatory Settlement”). The New Hampshire Regulatory Settlement provides for, among other things, the following: Service Quality Requirements: • We will commit to meet the broadband build out and capital investment requirements and continue operating under the service quality index (“SQI”) service quality program of the January 23, 2008 Settlement Agreement (the “NH 2008 Settlement”) among Verizon, the Company and the staff of the NHPUC and Order No. 24,823 in Docket DT 07-011 (the “NH 2008 Order”), subject to certain modifications described in the New Hampshire Regulatory Settlement. • SQI penalties for 2009 were deferred until December 31, 2010. If we met specified service levels on average in five performance areas over the twelve calendar months in 2010, the 2009 penalties would be waived. If we met the service levels for some but not all of these five performance areas, the penalties would be reduced by 20% for each performance area specified for which we met specified service levels on average over the 12 calendar months in 2010. As of December 31, 2010 we expect to receive a 60% penalty waiver. The amount of the waiver is subject to the review and approval of the NHPUC. Broadband Commitments: • We have agreed to adhere to the broadband coverage commitments prescribed in the NH 2008 Order; however, certain broadband build-out commitments with a deadline of April 1, 2010 were extended to December 31, 2010. We believe that we have fulfilled this broadband coverage commitment as of December 31, 2010, although we are in the process of confirming such compliance. • We confirmed our commitment to spend a total of at least $56.4 million on our New Hampshire broadband build-out by March 31, 2015 and we have spent $51.7 million as of December 31, 2010. • We have the option to resell terrestrial (non-satellite) based service providers’ broadband service offerings in order to fulfill our broadband build out and/or service requirements with respect to the last eight percent (8%) of our broadband availability requirements as contained within the NH 2008 Settlement, provided that the services meet or exceed all requirements of the NH 2008 Order, and the resold services are purchased through and serviced by us. • Pricing restrictions regarding stand-alone DSL service will terminate on April 1, 2011; provided, however, that we will continue to honor the “for life” pricing that Verizon had offered to certain customers. • The first $500,000 of any penalty amounts resulting from any failure to meet broadband commitments will be paid to the New Hampshire Telecommunications Planning and Development Fund. Any penalties above $500,000 will be invested within three years of the date of the penalty as additional expenditures for our network, subject to NHPUC approval. 25 Table of Contents Expenditure Commitments: • We reconfirmed our commitment to spend $285.4 million in capital expenditures through March 31, 2013, of which $211.7 million has been spent through December 31, 2010; provided, however, that the amounts expended toward the $56.4 million broadband commitment described above may be applied to the $285.4 million capital expenditure commitment. • We will reduce our $65.0 million “other expenditure” commitment by $10.0 million and reallocate the $10.0 million to recurring maintenance capital expenditures to be spent on or before March 31, 2013. This $10.0 million increases the $285.4 million capital expenditure commitment to $295.4 million. • We may further reduce our $65.0 million “other expenditure” commitment by up to $10.5 million to the extent such amounts are needed and are actually expended beyond the original $56.4 million broadband commitment in order to achieve 95% broadband availability. • We may further reduce our $65.0 million “other expenditure” commitment by $4.5 million of capital expenditures already expended in excess of amounts estimated to develop our Next Generation Network. • We will have from April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2015 to meet whatever “other expenditure” commitment remains after the preceding reductions, which will be spent on “network enhancing activities.” Financial Commitments: • Certain of the financial conditions of the NH 2008 Settlement and the NH 2008 Order are replaced by the terms of the New Hampshire Regulatory Settlement and are satisfied or rendered moot by the debt reductions resulting from the Plan. Management Commitments: • Our board of directors is required to consist of a supermajority of newly appointed independent directors, and at least one member of the board of directors will reside in northern New England. We are in compliance with this obligation. • Our board of directors is required to appoint a “regulatory sub-committee” that will monitor compliance with the terms of the NH 2008 Order, as modified by the New Hampshire Regulatory Settlement, and all other regulatory matters involving the States of Vermont, New Hampshire and Maine. We appointed a regulatory committee on the Effective Date. • We are required to maintain a state president who will provide a senior regulatory presence in New Hampshire and is able to reasonably respond to various future Company-based NHPUC dockets or regulatory issues relating to telecommunications. We fulfilled this obligation in February of 2010. • We agreed to seek to have a Chief Information Officer in place by June 30, 2010. We fulfilled this obligation in March of 2010. • We have agreed that the 2010 Annual Incentive Plan and the Success Bonus will be based on a combination of EBITDAR (EBITDA plus restructuring costs) and service metrics goals and the weighting for each of these categories will be computed and clearly stated for the incentive and bonus plans for each individual and for us in total. Other: • We are required to reimburse the State of New Hampshire for certain costs and expenses. • During the first two years following the Effective Date of the Plan, we are barred from paying dividends if we are in material breach of the New Hampshire Regulatory Settlement until we cure such breach. 26 Table of Contents Maine Regulatory Settlement On July 6, 2010, the Maine Public Utilities Commission (the “MPUC”) provided its approvals for Maine, including of the Regulatory Settlement for Maine (the “Maine Regulatory Settlement”). The Maine Regulatory Settlement provides for, among other things, the following: General: • We will comply with the MPUC’s February 1, 2008 Order issued in Docket Nos. 2007-67 and 2005-155, and all stipulations approved thereby (the “ME 2008 Merger Order”), including provisions regarding broadband build-out, capital investment, the SQI program and other provisions of the ME 2008 Merger Order, subject to certain modifications described in the Maine Regulatory Settlement. Service Quality Requirements: • We and the MPUC agreed to submit a joint consent order to the Bankruptcy Court which provides for the implementation of the SQI rebates for the 2008-2009 SQI year, starting with bills issued in March 2010. Broadband Commitments: • The deadline for the initial 83% broadband build-out requirement was extended from April 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010. We believe that we have fulfilled this broadband coverage commitment as of December 31, 2010, although we are in the process of confirming such compliance. An additional interim requirement of 85% is established with a July 31, 2012 deadline, and the final requirement, with a March 31, 2013 deadline, will be reduced from 90% to 87%. However, if we fail to meet any of these requirements, we shall be further required to achieve 90% by March 31, 2014. We further agreed that by March 31, 2013, we would achieve 82% for lines in UNE Zone 3. If we meet the 87% requirement by March 31, 2013, we will contribute $100,000 to the ConnectME Authority on July 1, 2013. • In meeting our broadband build-out requirements beyond 85%, we may resell the broadband service offerings of other non-satellite providers in order to meet our build-out and/or service requirements, provided that the services meet or exceed all requirements of the ME 2008 Merger Order, the resold services are purchased through and serviced by us, and the MPUC staff approves the provider(s). Financial Commitments: • The financial conditions in the ME 2008 Merger Order were replaced by the terms of the Maine Regulatory Settlement, which provided that such financial conditions were satisfied or were rendered moot by the debt reductions resulting from the Plan. Management Commitments: • Our New Board is required to consist of a supermajority of newly appointed independent directors and at least one member of the New Board will reside in northern New England. We are in compliance with this obligation. • The New Board is required to appoint a “regulatory sub-committee” that will monitor compliance with the terms of the ME 2008 Merger Order, as modified by the Maine Regulatory Settlement, and all other regulatory matters involving the States of Vermont, New Hampshire and Maine. We appointed a regulatory committee on the Effective Date. • We agreed to seek to have a Chief Information Officer in place by June 30, 2010. We fulfilled this obligation in March of 2010. 27 Table of Contents • We have agreed that the 2010 Annual Incentive Plan and the Success Bonus will be based on a combination of EBITDAR (EBITDA plus restructuring costs) and service metrics and the weighting for each of these categories will be computed and clearly stated for the incentive and bonus plans for each individual and for us in total, and that we will disclose such metrics to the MPUC and the Office of the Public Advocate of the State of Maine (the “Maine Public Advocate”). Other: • We are required to reimburse the MPUC and Maine Public Advocate for certain costs and expenses. Vermont Regulatory Settlement On December 23, 2010, the Vermont Board provided its approvals in Vermont, including of the Regulatory Settlement for Vermont (the “Vermont Regulatory Settlement”). The Vermont Regulatory Settlement provides for, among other things, the following: Service Quality Requirements: • In general, all of the service quality programs contained in the January 8, 2008 settlement agreement among Verizon, the Company and the Department of Public Service (“DPS”) (the “VT 2008 Settlement”) and the February 15, 2008 Order RE: MODIFIED PROPOSAL IN Docket Number 7270 (the “VT 2008 Order”) will remain in place subject to certain modifications described in the Vermont Regulatory Settlement. • SQI penalties for 2008 and 2009 were deferred until December 31, 2010. If we met specified service levels on average in ten performance areas over the twelve calendar months in 2010, the 2008 and 2009 penalties would be waived. If we met the service levels for some but not all of these ten performance areas, the penalties would be reduced by 10% for each performance area specified for which we met specified service levels on average over the 12 calendar months in 2010. As of December 31, 2010 we expect to receive at least an 80% penalty waiver. The amount of the waiver is subject to the review and approval of the Vermont Board. Broadband Commitments: • We will undertake to deploy broadband services to 95% of all access lines in those exchanges that have been identified for 100% broadband availability in the VT 2008 Order (the “100% Exchanges”) by June 30, 2011. With respect to the remaining 5% of lines in the 100% Exchanges, we will deploy broadband to any requesting customer using an extended service interval of 90 days from the date of the receipt of the order from the customer, provided such order is made no sooner than June 30, 2011. Failure to meet such requirements will require us to waive certain service charges. • We also will request that the Vermont Board authorize us to use high-cost USF funds for three consecutive years to upgrade local loop plant and infrastructure in order to improve our service quality and network reliability. If the Vermont Board authorizes us to use the high-cost USF funds, and to the extent permitted by FCC rules, we may invest the high-cost USF funds in network infrastructure that will support the deployment of broadband services to an additional 5% of access lines on a timeline that varies depending on the date of the Vermont Board’s authorization. • We will have the option to resell terrestrial (non-satellite) based service providers’ broadband service offerings in order to fulfill our broadband build-out and/or service requirements as contained in the VT 2008 Order, provided that the services meet or exceed all requirements of the VT 2008 Order as modified by the Vermont Regulatory Settlement and the resold services are purchased through and serviced by us. 28 Table of Contents • Penalty amounts resulting from any failure to meet broadband deployment requirements will be managed by us with funds deposited into an escrow account with an escrow agent, which will reimburse us for costs incurred for additional network projects completed within 18 months of the date of the penalty, such projects subject to the approval of the DPS. Capital Investment Commitments: • We will meet the capital investment requirements of the VT 2008 Order. Financial Commitments: • Certain of the financial conditions of the VT 2008 Settlement and the VT 2008 Order are replaced by the terms of the Vermont Regulatory Settlement and are satisfied or rendered moot by the debt reductions resulting from the Plan. Management Commitments: • Our New Board is required to consist of a supermajority of newly appointed independent directors and at least one member of the New Board will reside in northern New England. We are in compliance with this obligation. • The New Board is required to appoint a “regulatory sub-committee” that will monitor compliance with the terms of the VT 2008 Order, as modified by the Vermont Regulatory Settlement, and all other regulatory matters involving the States of Vermont, New Hampshire and Maine. We appointed a regulatory committee on the Effective Date. • We are required to maintain a state president who will provide a senior regulatory presence in Vermont and be able to reasonably respond to various future Company-based dockets or regulatory issues relating to telecommunications. We fulfilled this obligation in January of 2010. • We agreed to seek to have a Chief Information Officer in place by June 30, 2010. We fulfilled this obligation in March of 2010. • We have agreed that the 2010 Annual Incentive Plan and the Success Bonus will be based on a combination of EBITDAR (EBITDA plus restructuring costs) and service metrics goals and the weighting for each of these categories will be computed and clearly stated for the incentive and bonus plans for each individual and for us in total. Other: • We are required to reimburse the State of Vermont for certain costs and expenses. • During the first two years following the Effective Date of the Plan, we are barred from paying dividends if we are in material breach of the Vermont Regulatory Settlement until we cure such breach. Other Regulatory Matters Maine — Retail Regulation Our Northern New England operations in Maine currently operate under an AFOR implemented upon consummation of the Merger. The AFOR provides for the capping of rates for basic local exchange services and allows pricing flexibility for other services, including intrastate long-distance, optional services and bundled packages. Under the terms of the ME 2008 Merger Order, among other things, we reduced the caps on monthly basic exchange rates effective as of August 1, 2008 by an amount designed to decrease revenues by approximately $1.5 million per month (depending on the applicable number of access lines). The current AFOR caps basic exchange rates in Maine at the new level for five years after August 1, 2008. The AFOR also includes an SQI requirement for our Northern New England operations in Maine, which establishes benchmarks for certain performance categories and imposes 29 Table of Contents penalties for the failure to meet the benchmarks. Our Legacy FairPoint operations in Maine and Vermont converted to price cap regulation on July 1, 2010. All telephone companies in Maine are required to establish intrastate access rates which do not exceed their interstate access rates as they existed on January 1, 2003. Certain intrastate wholesale services are also subject to tariff requirements of the MPUC. In addition to the regulation of rates and service, telephone companies are generally subject to regulation by the MPUC in other areas, including transactions with affiliates, financing and reorganizations. Maine — Unbundling of Network Elements In orders issued in 2004 and 2005, the MPUC ruled that it had the authority under federal law to regulate compliance with certain conditions that our Northern New England operations must satisfy to sell long-distance services, and in particular to define the elements that our Northern New England operations must provide on a wholesale basis to competitive carriers under Section 271 of the Communications Act. The MPUC ruled that it had the authority to set rates for Section 271 elements and interpreted Section 271 to require our Northern New England operations to provide access to elements that the FCC had held are not required to be provided as UNEs under Section 251 of the Communications Act. Prior to the Merger, Verizon New England challenged the ruling in the U.S. District Court of Maine. Following an unfavorable ruling, Verizon New England appealed to the First Circuit Court of Appeals. The First Circuit vacated the District Court’s decision and held that the MPUC has no such authority. The court remanded the matter for further proceedings by the District Court, which subsequently dismissed the case at our and the MPUC’s request. On November 25, 2009, the MPUC petitioned the FCC for a declaratory ruling requiring us to provide certain UNEs, which is now pending. New Hampshire Our ILEC business operations in New Hampshire are subject to rate-of-return regulation. We have adopted the contractual and tariffed rates and terms and conditions that were in effect for the Verizon Northern New England business prior to the Merger. No rate proceeding is pending. Within this regulatory structure, the NHPUC has instituted rules and policies to expedite offerings of new services, but we are subject to regulations, such as tariff filing and cost allocation requirements, that are not applicable to our competitors. In addition to our access tariff, we maintain two New Hampshire wholesale tariffs, one for interconnection, co-location and UNEs and another for services offered to carriers for resale. The order of the NHPUC approving the spin-off and the Merger includes conditions generally limiting rates for existing retail, wholesale and DSL services during the three years following the closing of the Merger to those in effect as of the close date of the Merger. In a case similar to that of the MPUC described under “— Maine — Unbundling of Network Elements,” the NHPUC had entered orders asserting authority under federal law to require the Verizon Northern New England business to continue offering certain network elements no longer required to be offered pursuant to Section 251 of the 1996 Act, and at existing total element long run incremental cost rates, until the NHPUC decided otherwise. The Verizon Northern New England business challenged the orders in the United States District Court for the District of New Hampshire and obtained an order enjoining the NHPUC from enforcing the orders. The recent First Circuit decision that considered the MPUC order also considered this New Hampshire decision and affirmed the District Court’s opinion. In 2008, the NHPUC issued an order determining that intra-LATA carrier common line switched access charges did not apply to certain interexchange calls where neither the calling nor the called party is served by our Northern New England operations. This decision was reversed by the New Hampshire Supreme Court on appeal. Following this decision, the NHPUC directed us to file tariff revisions to remove such charges prospectively and we objected to this requirement. The matter remains pending before the NHPUC. Vermont In April 2006, the Vermont Board issued a final order adopting an amended alternative regulatory plan (the “Amended Incentive Regulation Plan”) for the Verizon Northern New England business to replace a plan adopted in 2000. The Amended Incentive Regulation Plan is retroactive to July 1, 2005, and runs through December 31, 2010. The Vermont Board has extended the Amended Incentive Regulation Plan through March 31, 2011 to allow the parties time to negotiate a replacement plan. Under the Amended Incentive Regulation Plan, the Verizon Northern New England business committed to make broadband capability available to 75% of its access lines in Vermont by 2008 and 80% of its access lines in Vermont by 2010 with milestones of 65% and 77% for 2007 and 2009, respectively. The Amended Incentive Regulation Plan provides pricing flexibility for all new services, and no price increases 30 Table of Contents are permitted for existing services such as basic exchange service, message toll service and most vertical services. The final order also continues an SQI plan with a $10.5 million penalty cap. Other provisions of the order include lifeline credits for qualified customers that subscribe to bundled services and a requirement to separately publish and distribute white and Yellow Pages directories. The VT 2008 Order was conditioned on our being subject to the terms and conditions of the Amended Incentive Regulation Plan. As a part of our settlement with the Vermont DPS, and as ordered by the Vermont Board as a condition of approval of the Merger, we agreed to exceed the existing Amended Incentive Regulation Plan’s broadband build-out milestones and agreed to a condition that requires us to reach 100% broadband availability in 50% of our exchanges in Vermont by December 31, 2010. This requirement has been adopted by the Vermont Board as a condition of approval and is in addition to the broadband expansion requirements contained in the existing Amended Incentive Regulation Plan. We have also agreed in our settlement with the Vermont DPS to implement a performance enhancement plan, which was adopted by the Vermont Board as a condition of approval (in addition to the retail service quality plan required under the Amended Incentive Regulation Plan). As noted above, some of these matters are subject to modifications as part of the Vermont Regulatory Settlement. Local Government Authorizations We may be required to obtain from municipal authorities permits for street opening and construction or operating franchises to install and expand facilities in certain communities. If we enter into the video markets, municipal franchises may be required for us to operate as a cable television provider. Some of these franchises may require the payment of franchise fees. We have historically obtained municipal franchises as required. In some areas, we will not need to obtain permits or franchises because the subcontractors or electric utilities with which we will have contracts already possess the requisite authorizations to construct or expand our networks. In association with the Recovery Act, there may be an increase in our requirements associated with road move requests pursuant to new funding for roads. It is not certain whether funding will be available to us for this potential obligation. Environmental Regulations Like all other local telephone companies, our 33 LEC subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, disposal of and exposure to hazardous materials, the release of pollutants into the environment and the remediation of contamination. As an owner of property, we could be subject to environmental laws that impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup at contaminated sites, regardless of fault or the lawfulness of the activity that resulted in contamination. We believe, however, that our operations are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Other Information We make available on our website, www.fairpoint.com, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to such reports as soon as reasonably practical after we file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC. Our filings with the SEC are available to the public over the Internet at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov, or at the SEC’s public reference room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the public reference room. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. Risks Related to Our Emergence from Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Protection Our actual financial results may vary significantly from the projections filed with the Bankruptcy Court. In connection with the Chapter 11 Cases, we were required to prepare projected financial information to demonstrate to the Bankruptcy Court the feasibility of the Plan and our ability to continue operations upon emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy 31 Table of Contents protection. These projections were included in the disclosure statement approved by the Bankruptcy Court in March 2010 and reflected numerous assumptions concerning anticipated future performance and anticipated market and economic conditions that were and continue to be beyond our control and that may not materialize. These projections were revised in connection with a subsequent review of our financial forecast, and as a result of this review of our financial forecast, in December 2010 we provided notice of certain changes to the forecasted financial results to the classes of creditors entitled to vote on the Plan, which notice was filed with the Bankruptcy Court. Projections are inherently subject to uncertainties and to a wide variety of significant business, economic and competitive risks. Our actual results may vary from those contemplated by the projections for a variety of reasons. The projections have not been incorporated by reference into this report and neither these projections nor any version of the disclosure statement or the notice referred to above should be considered or relied upon in connection with any investment decision concerning our Common Stock. Our bankruptcy proceedings, which improved our capital structure, contemplated that we would implement our strategy and business plan based upon assumptions and analyses developed by us. There is no guarantee that we will be able to achieve these objectives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. Our bankruptcy proceedings, which improved our capital structure, contemplated that we would refine and implement our strategy and business plan based upon assumptions and analyses developed by us in light of our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors that we considered appropriate under the circumstances. Whether actual future results and developments will be consistent with our expectations and assumptions depends on a number of factors, including but not limited to (i) our ability to obtain adequate liquidity and financing sources; (ii) our ability to restore customers’ confidence in our viability as a continuing entity and to attract and retain sufficient customers; (iii) our ability to retain key employees; (iv) changes in consumer demand for, and acceptance of, our services; and (v) the overall strength and stability of general economic conditions and of the financial industry. The failure of any of these factors could materially adversely affect the successful execution of our strategy and business plan and the stated goals of the Plan may not be achieved, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. Because our future consolidated financial statements will reflect fresh start accounting adjustments made upon emergence from bankruptcy, and because of the effects of the transactions that became effective pursuant to the Plan, financial information in our future financial statements will not be comparable to our financial information from prior periods, including the statements contained herein. Upon our emergence from Chapter 11 on January 24, 2011, we adopted fresh start accounting in accordance with guidance under the applicable reorganization accounting rules, pursuant to which our reorganization value, which represents the fair value of the entity before considering liabilities and approximates the amount a willing buyer would pay for the assets of the entity immediately after the reorganization, has been allocated to the fair value of assets in conformity with guidance under the applicable accounting rules for business combinations, using the purchase method of accounting for business combinations. The amount remaining after allocation of the reorganization value to the fair value of identified tangible and intangible assets will be reflected as goodwill, which is subject to periodic evaluation for impairment. In addition to fresh start accounting, our future consolidated financial statements will reflect all effects of the transactions contemplated by the Plan; therefore our future consolidated statements of financial position and consolidated statements of operations will not be comparable in many respects to our consolidated statements of financial position and consolidated statements of operations for periods prior to our adoption of fresh start accounting and prior to accounting for the effects of the reorganization, including the financial statements contained herein. As a result, our financial and operating results for the year ended December 31, 2010 may not be indicative of future financial performance. In addition, as the Chapter 11 Cases remain open, our consolidated balance sheet upon our emergence from Chapter 11 will include accruals for unresolved claims related to the Chapter 11 Cases. These accruals are based on management’s best estimate of future settlements of such unresolved claims and are subject to adjustment subsequent to the Effective Date. To the extent that our negotiations result in favorable or unfavorable settlements in relation to the amount accrued, we will recognize gains and/or losses in our consolidated statement of operations subsequent to the Effective Date. 32 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Common Stock and Our Substantial Indebtedness The price of our Common Stock may be volatile and may fluctuate substantially, which could negatively affect holders of our Common Stock. Shares of our Common Stock were listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market effective as of January 25, 2011. There has been a public market for our Common Stock for only a short period of time. An active, liquid and orderly market for our Common Stock may not be sustained, which could depress the market price of our Common Stock. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital. In addition, the market price of our Common Stock may fluctuate widely as a result of various factors, period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results, the volume of sales of our Common Stock, dilution, developments in the communications industry, the failure of securities analysts to cover our Common Stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts, competitive factors, regulatory developments, economic and other external factors, general market conditions and market conditions affecting the stock of communications companies in general. Communications companies have in the past experienced extreme volatility in the trading prices and volumes of their securities, which has often been unrelated to operating performance. High levels of market volatility may have a significant adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, in the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock prices. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. Concentration of ownership among stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Based on Schedules 13D and 13G filed by the respective holders, as of March 25, 2011, entities advised by Angelo, Gordon & Co., L.P. (“Angelo Gordon”) hold approximately 17.7% of our outstanding Common Stock, funds managed by Marathon Asset Management, L.P. hold approximately 10.9% of our Common Stock and funds managed by Chatham Asset Management, LLC hold approximately 5.6% of our Common Stock (assuming exercise of all warrants to purchase Common Stock held by those funds). As a result, these stockholders may be able to exercise significant control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of corporate transactions and could gain significant control over our management and policies. Future sales or the possibility of future sales of a substantial amount of our Common Stock may depress the price of our Common Stock. Future sales, or the availability for sale in the public market, of substantial amounts of our Common Stock could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Common Stock, and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities. The market price of our Common Stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our Common Stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, may also make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital by selling equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of March 25, 2011, we had 26,197,432 shares of Common Stock outstanding. All such shares are freely tradable except for any shares of our Common Stock that may be held or acquired by our directors, executive officers and other affiliates, as that term is defined in the Securities Act, which will be restricted securities under the Securities Act. Restricted securities may not be sold in the public market unless the sale is registered under the Securities Act or an exemption from registration is available. In addition, Angelo Gordon has certain registration rights with respect to the Common Stock it holds or may acquire in the future. We may issue shares of our Common Stock, or other securities, from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. In the event any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of our Common Stock, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be significant. We may also grant registration rights covering these shares or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. 33 Table of Contents We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. On March 4, 2009, our board of directors voted to suspend our quarterly dividend. We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends on shares of our Common Stock for the foreseeable future. Because we are a holding company, our ability to pay dividends depends on our receipt of cash dividends from our operating subsidiaries. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon limitations imposed by orders of state regulatory authorities, results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions contained in the agreements governing our Exit Credit Agreement or indebtedness we may incur in the future, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board of directors may then deem relevant. Although we successfully consummated the Plan, we have substantial indebtedness which could have a negative impact on our financing options and liquidity position. As of the Effective Date, we had approximately $1,000.0 million of total debt outstanding. In addition, as of the Effective Date, we had approximately $56.3 million, net of outstanding letters of credit, available for additional borrowing under our Exit Revolving Loan. Our overall indebtedness and the terms of our Exit Credit Agreement could: • require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to paying the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, thereby limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund future capital expenditures, working capital and other corporate purposes; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions; • limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the communications industry generally; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with competitors that have a less significant debt burden; and • make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. Our ability to continue to fund our debt requirements and to reduce debt may be affected by general economic, financial market, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, among other things. An inability to fund our debt requirements, reduce debt or satisfy debt covenant requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, all of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, variable rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow. In addition, interest payments on the Exit Term Loan in our Exit Credit Agreement are subject to a LIBOR floor of 2.00%. While LIBOR remains below 2.00% we will incur interest costs above market rates. While we may enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher interest rates, these agreements may not offer complete protection from this risk. 34 Table of Contents We are a holding company and rely on dividends, interest and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our operating subsidiaries and investments to meet our debt service and other obligations and to pay dividends, if any, on our Common Stock. We are a holding company and conduct no operations. Accordingly, our cash flow and our ability to make payments on, or repay or refinance, our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and other cash needs will depend largely upon the cash flows of our operating subsidiaries and the payment of funds by those subsidiaries to us in the form of repayment of loans, dividends, management fees or otherwise. Distributions to us from our subsidiaries will depend on their respective operating results and will be subject to restrictions under, among other things, • the laws of their jurisdiction of organization; • the rules and regulations of state and federal regulatory authorities; • agreements of those subsidiaries, including agreements governing their indebtedness; and • regulatory restrictions. Our subsidiaries have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available, whether in the form of loans, dividends or other distributions to us. Any inability to receive distributions from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. To operate and expand our business, service our indebtedness and meet our other cash needs, we will require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us. We may not generate sufficient funds from operations to repay or refinance our indebtedness at maturity or otherwise or to fund our operations. Our ability to make payments on, or repay or refinance, our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures, unanticipated capital expenditures and other cash needs will depend largely upon our future operating performance, including our ability to execute on our business plan. Our future operating performance, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to borrow funds in the future to make payments on our indebtedness will depend on the satisfaction of the covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness. Specifically, we will need to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial condition tests. In addition, the limitations imposed by any financing arrangements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. In addition, we can provide no assurance that we would be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to make payments or refinance our debt or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, including: • sales of assets; • reduction or delay of capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances; or • negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. The agreements governing our indebtedness may restrict, or market or business conditions may limit, our ability to take some of these actions or the effectiveness of these actions. 35 Table of Contents An inability to generate sufficient funds from operations to repay or refinance our indebtedness at maturity or otherwise fund our operations could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. Our financing arrangements subject us to various restrictions that could limit our operating flexibility, our ability to make payment on our debt and to fund dividends, if any, on our Common Stock. The Exit Credit Agreement contains restrictions, covenants and events of default that, among other things, require us to satisfy certain financial tests and maintain certain financial ratios and restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and to refinance our existing indebtedness. The terms of the Exit Credit Agreement impose, and the agreements governing any future indebtedness may impose, various restrictions and covenants on us that could limit our ability to respond to market conditions, provide for capital investment needs or take advantage of business opportunities by limiting the amount of additional borrowings we may incur. These restrictions may include compliance with, or maintenance of, certain financial tests and ratios and may limit or prohibit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; • pay dividends in the future or make other distributions on our stock or repurchase or redeem stock; • create liens; • redeem or prepay certain debt; • make certain investments; • engage in specified sales of assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • enter new lines of business; • engage in consolidation, mergers and acquisitions; and • make certain capital expenditures. These restrictions on our ability to operate our business could seriously harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition and other corporate opportunities. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants and maintain these financial tests and ratios. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in the Exit Credit Agreement could result in a default thereunder. In addition, the limitations imposed by any financing arrangements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. Any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. Limitations on our ability to use NOL carryforwards, and other factors requiring us to pay cash to satisfy our tax liabilities in future periods, may affect our ability to repay our indebtedness. As of the Effective Date, our NOLs have been substantially reduced by the recognition of gains on the discharge of certain debt pursuant to the Plan. In addition, our emergence from bankruptcy resulted in an ownership change for federal income tax purposes 36 Table of Contents under Section 382 of the Code. This followed previous ownership changes resulting from our initial public offering in February 2005 which resulted in an “ownership change” within the meaning of the U.S. federal income tax laws addressing NOL carryforwards, alternative minimum tax credits and other similar tax attributes. Moreover, the Merger with Spinco resulted in a further ownership change for these purposes. As a result of these ownership changes, there are specific limitations on our ability to use these NOL carryforwards and other tax attributes from periods prior to the initial public offering and the Merger. Although we do not expect that these limitations will materially affect our U.S. federal and state income tax liability in the near term, it is possible in the future if we were to generate taxable income in excess of the limitation on usage of NOL carryforwards that these limitations could limit our ability to utilize the carryforwards and, therefore, result in an increase in our U.S. federal and state income tax payments over the amount we otherwise would have, had we not experienced an ownership change. In addition, in the future we will be required to pay cash to satisfy our tax liabilities when all of our NOL carryforwards have been used or have expired. Limitations on our usage of NOL carryforwards, and other factors requiring us to pay cash taxes in the future, would reduce the funds available to service our debt and pay dividends, if any, in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance. From time to time, we have released and may continue to release guidance regarding our future performance that represents our management’s estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which consists of forward-looking statements, is prepared by our management and is qualified by, and subject to, the assumptions and the other information contained or referred to in the release. Our guidance is not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our independent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the guidance and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto. Guidance is based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. We generally state possible outcomes as high and low ranges which are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed but are not intended to represent our actual results which could fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we release this data is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. Notwithstanding this, we do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such outside analysts or investors. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions or the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from the guidance and the variations may be material. Investors should also recognize that the reliability of any forecasted financial data diminishes the farther in the future that the data is forecast. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged to put the guidance in context and not to place undue reliance on it. Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances discussed therein could result in the actual operating results being different than the guidance, and such differences may be materially adverse. Risks Related to Our Business We provide services to customers over access lines, and if we lose access lines, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock may be materially adversely affected. We generate revenue primarily by delivering voice and data services over access lines. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, we experienced access line equivalent loss of 8.3% and 10.2%. These losses resulted mainly from competition, including competition from bundled offerings by cable companies, the use of alternate technologies as well as challenging economic conditions and the offering of DSL services, which prompts some customers to cancel second line service. We believe that the Chapter 11 Cases and certain issues associated with the Cutover may have had an adverse effect on our ability to retain customers. 37 Table of Contents We expect to continue to experience net access line losses. Our inability to retain access lines could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. We provide access services to other communications companies, and if these companies were to find alternative means of providing services, become insolvent or experience substantial financial difficulties, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock may be materially adversely affected. We originate and terminate calls on behalf of long-distance carriers and other interexchange carriers over our network in exchange for access charges. Interstate and intrastate access charges represented approximately 35.6% of our total revenues in 2010. Should one or more of these carriers find alternative means of providing services, loss of revenues from these carriers could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, should one or more of the carriers that we do business with become insolvent or experience substantial financial difficulties, our inability to timely collect access charges from them could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. We are subject to competition that may materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. We face intense competition from a variety of sources for our voice and Internet services in most of the areas we now serve. Regulations and technology change quickly in the communications industry, and changes in these factors historically have had, and may in the future have, a significant impact on competitive dynamics. In most of our services areas, we face competition from wireless carriers for voice services. As technology and economies of scale improve, competition from wireless carriers is expected to increase. We also face increasing competition from wireline and cable television companies for our voice and Internet services. We estimate that as of December 31, 2010, most of the customers that we serve had access to voice and Internet services through a cable television company. Wireline and cable television companies have the ability to bundle their services, which has and is expected to continue to intensify the competition we face from these providers. VoIP providers, Internet service providers, satellite companies and electric utilities also compete with our services, and such competition is expected to continue to increase in the future. In addition, many of our competitors have access to a larger workforce and have substantially greater name-brand recognition and financial, technological and other resources than we do. In addition, consolidation and strategic alliances within the communications industry or the development of new technologies have had and may continue to have an effect on our competitive position. We cannot predict the number of competitors that will emerge, particularly in light of possible regulatory or legislative actions that could facilitate or impede market entry, but increased competition from existing and new entities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. Competition may lead to loss of revenues and profitability as a result of numerous factors, including: • loss of customers (given the likelihood that when we lose customers for local service, we will also lose them for all related services); • reduced network usage by existing customers who may use alternative providers for voice and data services; • reductions in the service prices that may be necessary to meet competition; and • increases in marketing expenditures and discount and promotional campaigns. We may not be able to successfully integrate new technologies, respond effectively to customer requirements or provide new services. Rapid and significant changes in technology and new service introductions occur frequently in the communications industry and industry standards evolve continually, including but not limited to a transition in the industry from primarily voice products to data 38 Table of Contents services. We cannot predict the effect of these changes on our competitive position, profitability or industry. Technological developments may reduce the competitiveness of our networks and require unbudgeted upgrades or the procurement of additional products that could be expensive and time consuming. In addition, new products and services arising out of technological developments may reduce the attractiveness of our services. If we fail to adapt successfully to technological changes or obsolescence or fail to obtain access to important new technologies, we could lose customers and be limited in our ability to attract new customers and sell new services to our existing customers, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. The geographic concentration of our operations in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont make our business susceptible to local economic and regulatory conditions and consumer trends, and an economic downturn, recession or unfavorable regulatory action in any of those states may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. As of December 31, 2010, we operate in 18 states with approximately 1.4 million access line equivalents, of which approximately 85% are located in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results will depend significantly upon economic conditions and consumer trends in these markets. From January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2010, our Northern New England operations experienced a 9.5% decline in total access line equivalents in service, compared to a decline of 3.2% for Legacy FairPoint during the same period. A deterioration in economic conditions in any of these markets could result in a further decrease in demand for our services and resulting loss of access line equivalents which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, if state regulators in Maine, New Hampshire or Vermont were to take an action that is adverse to our operations in those states, we could suffer greater harm from that action by state regulators than we would from action in other states because of the concentration of our operations in those states. We depend on third party providers for certain of our billing functions, information technology services, including network support and improvements, and for the provision of our long-distance and bandwidth services. We have agreements with outside service providers to perform a portion of our billing functions and for our provision of long-distance and bandwidth services. We also rely on certain third parties for information technology services, including network support and improvements. If these service providers are unable to adequately perform such services or if one of them experiences a significant degradation or failure with respect to such services, it could result in disruptions in our billing, information technology systems and/or our long-distance and bandwidth services. Furthermore, if these agreements are terminated for any reason, we may be unable to find an alternative service provider in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, and may be unable ourselves to perform the services they provide. With respect to the agreements governing our long-distance and bandwidth services, these agreements are based, in part, on our estimate of future supply and demand and may contain minimum volume commitments. If we overestimate demand, we may be forced to pay for services we do not need. If we underestimate demand, we may need to acquire additional capacity on a short-term basis at unfavorable prices, assuming additional capacity is available. If additional capacity is not available, we will not be able to meet this demand. In addition, if we cannot meet any minimum volume commitments, we may be subject to underutilization charges, termination charges, or rate increases. If any of the foregoing events occurs with respect to our third party providers, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock could be materially adversely affected. 39 Table of Contents A network disruption could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose customers. To be successful, we will need to continue to provide our customers reliable service over our expanded network. Some of the risks to our network and infrastructure include: • physical damage to access lines; • widespread power surges or outages; • software defects in critical systems; • disruptions beyond our control; and • capacity limitations resulting from changes in our customers’ usage patterns. From time to time, in the ordinary course of business, we could experience short disruptions in our service due to factors such as cable damage, inclement weather and service failures of our third-party service providers. We could experience more significant disruptions in the future. In addition, certain portions of our network may lack adequate redundancy to allow for expedient recovery of service to affected customers. Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and incur expenses, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel. Our success depends upon the talents and efforts of our senior management team. None of our senior executives, with the exception of Paul H. Sunu, our Chief Executive Officer, are employed pursuant to an employment agreement. Mr. Sunu’s current employment agreement expires on August 24, 2013. The loss of any member of our senior management team, due to retirement or otherwise, and the inability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and management personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. A significant portion of our workforce is represented by labor unions and therefore subject to collective bargaining agreements. If disputes arise, or if we are unable to successfully renegotiate these agreements at an appropriate time, workers subject to these agreements could engage in strikes or other work stoppages or slowdowns, which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. As of December 31, 2010 2,578 of our 4,032 employees were covered by fourteen collective bargaining agreements. Disputes with regard to the terms of these agreements or our potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. If unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, or other employees were to become unionized, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. Additionally, future renegotiation of labor agreements or provisions of labor agreements could adversely impact our service reliability and significantly increase our costs for healthcare, wages and other benefits, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting which existed as of December 31, 2010. If the steps we take to remedy these material weaknesses are not successful or we otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, such a failure could result in additional material misstatements in our financial statements, prevent us from providing timely financial statements or prevent us from meeting our reporting requirements both with the SEC and under our debt obligations, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the market price of our Common Stock. As discussed in “Part II—Item 9A. Controls and Procedures,” we concluded that the following material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting existed as of December 31, 2010: 40 Table of Contents • Our information technology controls were not adequate. Specifically, our change management processes were not consistently followed to ensure all changes were appropriately authorized. In addition, access to our information systems was not appropriately restricted. • Our management oversight and review procedures designed to monitor the accuracy of period-end accounting activities were ineffective. Specifically, our account reconciliation processes were not adequate to properly identify and resolve discrepancies between our billing system and our general ledger in a timely manner. In addition, project accounting controls were not adequate to ensure charges to capital projects were appropriate or that projects were closed in a timely manner. Furthermore, procedures for the review of our income tax provision and supporting schedules were not adequate to identify and correct errors in a timely manner. As a result of these material weaknesses, our management concluded that our disclosure controls were not effective as of December 31, 2010. Our management has initiated steps to remediate these issues. If the remediation is not successful or we otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, such a failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, prevent us from providing timely financial statements or prevent us from meeting our reporting requirements both with the SEC and under our debt obligations, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the market price of our Common Stock. We will be exposed to risks relating to evaluations of internal control systems required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, including accelerated reporting requirements and expanded disclosures regarding evaluations of internal control systems. With respect to internal control over financial reporting, standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board define a material weakness as a deficiency in internal controls over financial reporting that results in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. If our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting in the future in accordance with the annual assessments and quarterly evaluations required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective which could result in sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. In addition, any such material weakness could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, prevent us from providing timely financial statements or meeting our reporting requirements both with the SEC and under our debt obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. We note that we have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting which existed as of December 31, 2010, which material weaknesses are discussed in greater detail in “Part II—Item 9A. Controls and Procedures”. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if assets held in our Company sponsored pension plans suffer significant losses in market value. We sponsor pension and post-retirement healthcare plans for certain employees. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we experienced actual gains on pension plan assets totaling approximately 11.2%. Since the actuarial value of plan assets is dependent on the value of the assets held by each plan, a significant decline in the market value of such assets could have a detrimental impact on our pension plans and could result in us making additional contributions to these plans, as required under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. Furthermore, if the third party trustee who holds these plan assets were to become insolvent, access to the plan assets could be limited, and we could be required to pay participant benefits from our assets. Such 41 Table of Contents required contributions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. Risks Relating to Our Regulatory Environment We are subject to significant regulations that could change in a manner adverse to us. We operate in a heavily regulated industry. Laws and regulations applicable to us and our competitors may be, and have been, challenged in the courts, and could be changed by Congress or regulators. In addition, the following factors could have a significant impact on us: Risk of loss or reduction of network access charge revenues. A portion of our revenues comes from network access charges, which are paid to us by intrastate and interstate interexchange carriers for originating and terminating communications in the regions served. This also includes Universal Service Support payments for local switching support, long-term support, and ICLS. In recent years, several of these long-distance carriers have declared bankruptcy. Future declarations of bankruptcy by a carrier that utilizes our access services could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. The amount of access charge revenues that we receive is based on rates set by federal and state regulatory bodies, and those rates could change in the future. Further, from time to time federal and state regulatory bodies conduct rate cases, “earnings” reviews, or make adjustments to price cap formulas that may result in rate changes. In addition, reforms of the federal and state access charge systems, combined with the development of competition, have caused the aggregate amount of access charges paid by long-distance carriers to decrease. Additional reforms have been proposed. If any of the currently proposed reforms were adopted by the FCC it would likely involve significant changes in the access charge system and, if not offset by a revenue replacement mechanism, could potentially result in a significant decrease in or elimination of access charges. Decreases in or loss of access charges may or may not result in offsetting increases in local, subscriber line or Universal Service Support revenues. Regulatory developments of this type could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. Risk of loss or reduction of Universal Service Fund support. We receive federal Universal Service Support, referred to as the Universal Service Fund, and in some cases, state universal support, to support our operations in high-cost areas. These federal revenues include Universal Service Support payments for local switching support, ICLS, or IAS. High-cost support for our Northern New England operations, referred to as our non-rural operations or non-rural LECs, and for Legacy FairPoint’s traditional, rural local exchange operations, referred to as our rural operations or rural LECs, is determined pursuant to different methodologies, aspects of which are now under review. The FCC has proposed changes to the Universal Service Fund. Any changes to the existing rules could reduce the Universal Service Fund revenues we receive. If we were unable to receive such support, or if that support was reduced, our Northern New England operations would be unable to operate as profitably as they have historically. Moreover, if we raise prices for services to offset these losses of Universal Service Fund payments, the increased pricing of our services may disadvantage us competitively in the marketplace, resulting in additional potential revenue loss. See discussion of FCC NPRM in “Part I— Item 1. Business — Regulatory Environment — Universal Service Support.” Further, the total payments from the Universal Service Fund to our rural operations will fluctuate based upon our rural company average cost per loop compared to the national average cost per loop and are likely to decline based on historical trends. We receive IAS in all of our price cap study areas (Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont) and ICLS in our rate-of-return study areas. The FCC also is considering changes to its rules governing who contributes to the Universal Service Support mechanisms, and on what basis. Any changes in the FCC’s rules governing the distribution of such support or the manner in which entities contribute to the Universal Service Fund could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. Risk of loss of statutory exemption from burdensome interconnection rules imposed on ILECs. Our rural LECs generally are exempt from the more burdensome requirements of the 1996 Act governing the rights of competitors to interconnect to ILEC networks and to utilize discrete network elements of the incumbent’s network at favorable rates. To the extent state regulators decide 42 Table of Contents that it is in the public interest to extend some or all of these requirements to our rural LECs, we would be required to provide UNEs to competitors in our rural telephone company areas. As a result, more competitors could enter our traditional telephone markets than are currently expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. Risks posed by costs of regulatory compliance. Regulations create significant compliance costs for us. Subsidiaries that provide intrastate services are generally subject to certification, tariff filing and other ongoing regulatory requirements by state regulators. Our interstate and intrastate access services are currently provided in accordance with tariffs filed with the FCC and state regulatory authorities, respectively. Challenges in the future to our tariffs by regulators or third parties or delays in obtaining certifications and regulatory approvals could cause us to incur substantial legal and administrative expenses, and, if successful, these challenges could adversely affect the rates that we are able to charge our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, our non-rural operations are subject to regulations not applicable to our rural operations, including but not limited to requirements relating to interconnection, the provision of UNEs, and the other market-opening obligations set forth in the 1996 Act. In approving the transfer of authorizations to us in the Merger, the FCC determined that our non-rural operations would be regulated as a Bell Operating Company following the completion of the Merger, subject to the same regulatory requirements that currently apply to the other Bell Operating Companies. The FCC also stated that we would be entitled to the same regulatory relief that Verizon New England had obtained in the region. Any changes made in connection with these obligations could increase our non-rural operations’ costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. Moreover, we cannot predict the precise manner in which the FCC will apply the Bell Operating Company regulatory framework to us. State regulators have also imposed conditions in various regulatory proceedings that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. Our business also may be affected by legislation and regulation imposing new or greater obligations related to open Internet access, assisting law enforcement, bolstering homeland security, minimizing environmental impacts, protecting customer privacy or addressing other issues that affect our business. We cannot predict whether or to what extent the FCC might modify its rules or what compliance with those new rules might cost. Similarly, we cannot predict whether or to what extent federal or state legislators or regulators might impose new network access, security, environmental or other obligations on our business. Risk of losses from rate reduction. Our local exchange companies that operate pursuant to intrastate rate-of-return regulation are subject to state regulatory authority over their intrastate telecommunications service rates. State review of these rates could lead to rate reductions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our Common Stock. For a more thorough discussion of the regulatory issues that may affect our business, see “Item 1. Business—Regulatory Environment.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 