ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity or the market price of our common stock. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. Risks Related to the Chapter 11 Cases For the duration of the Chapter 11 Cases, our operations, including our ability to execute our business plan, will be subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Risks and uncertainties associated with the Chapter 11 Cases include the following: •our ability to prosecute, confirm and consummate the Plan; •the actions and decisions of our creditors and other third parties who have interests in the Chapter 11 Cases that may be inconsistent with our plans; •our ability to obtain and maintain financing necessary to carry out our operations; 39 Table of Contents •our ability to comply with the covenants under the DIP Credit Agreement; and •our ability to maintain contracts and leases that are critical to our operations. These risks and uncertainties could affect our business and operations in various ways. For example, negative events or publicity associated with the Chapter 11 Cases could adversely affect our revenues and the relationship with our customers which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, particularly if the Chapter 11 Cases are unexpectedly protracted. In addition, for the duration of the Chapter 11 Cases, transactions outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain business opportunities. Furthermore, as a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities are subject to uncertainty. While operating as a debtor-in-possession under the protection of the Bankruptcy Code, we may sell or otherwise dispose of assets and liquidate or settle liabilities for amounts other than those reflected in our financial statements, subject to Bankruptcy Court approval or otherwise as permitted in the normal course of business. Further, a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization could materially change the amounts and classifications reported in our consolidated historical financial statements, which do not give effect to any adjustments to the carrying value of assets or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary as a consequence of confirmation of a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization and the discharge of such liabilities. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with the Chapter 11 Cases, the ultimate impact of events that occur during these proceedings on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity cannot be accurately predicted or quantified. Additionally, the Plan will result in cancellation of our common stock, which is expected to cause an investment in the Company to become worthless. In light of the foregoing, trading in our securities during the Chapter 11 Cases is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. Holders of our securities may have their securities cancelled and in return receive no payment or other consideration, or a payment or other consideration that is less than the par value or the purchase price of such securities. Operating under Bankruptcy Court protection for a long period of time may harm our business. A long period of operations under Bankruptcy Court protection could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. So long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, our senior management will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on our business operations. A prolonged period of operating under Bankruptcy Court protection may also make it more difficult to retain management and other key personnel necessary to the success and growth of our business. In addition, the longer the Chapter 11 Cases continue, the more likely it is that our customers and suppliers will lose confidence in our ability to successfully reorganize our businesses and seek to establish alternative commercial relationships. Furthermore, so long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, we will be required to incur substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the administration of the Chapter 11 Cases. A prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases may also require us to seek additional financing. If we require additional financing during the Chapter 11 Cases and we are unable to obtain the financing on favorable terms or at all, our chances of successfully reorganizing our business may be seriously jeopardized, and, as a result, any securities in the Company could become further devalued or become worthless. 40 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain confirmation of the Plan. Even though the requisite majorities of impaired creditors have voted to accept the Plan, it is possible that the Bankruptcy Court will not confirm the Plan or that other conditions, including, without limitation, approval by certain regulatory authorities, will not be met. Furthermore, the Plan contemplates numerous operating assumptions, including, without limitation, certain concessions by state public utility commissions, which may not be obtained. Pursuant to the Plan Support Agreement, we committed to the achievement of certain milestones, including obtaining an order by the Bankruptcy Court confirming a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization reflecting the proposed financial restructuring described in the Plan Term Sheet on or before 5:00 P.M. Eastern Time on July 8, 2010. Our failure to achieve these milestones by the dates required under the Plan Support Agreement would (unless duly waived or extended) constitute a termination event under the Plan Support Agreement, pursuant to which the Consenting Lenders agreed to support such a plan, that could allow the Consenting Lenders to terminate their obligations to support the Plan. If the Plan is not confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court and certain other conditions precedent to the Plan are not met and/or waived, it is unclear whether we would be able to reorganize our business and what, if anything, holders of claims against us would ultimately receive with respect to their claims. The Plan results in holders of our common stock receiving no distribution on account of their interests and cancellation of their common stock. Under the priority scheme established by the Bankruptcy Code, unless creditors agree otherwise, post-petition liabilities and pre-petition liabilities must be satisfied in full before stockholders are entitled to receive any distribution or retain any property under a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization. The ultimate recovery to creditors and/or stockholders, if any, will not be determined until confirmation of such a plan. No assurance can be given as to what values, if any, will be ascribed in the Chapter 11 Cases to each of these constituencies or what types or amounts of distributions, if any, they would receive. The Plan results in holders of our common stock receiving no distribution on account of their interests and in the cancellation and extinguishment of their existing stock. If certain requirements of the Bankruptcy Code are met, the Plan can be confirmed notwithstanding its rejection by the class comprising the interests of our equity security holders. Therefore, an investment in our common stock is highly speculative and will become worthless (or be cancelled) in the future without any required approval or consent of our stockholders. Even if the Plan is consummated, we will continue to face risks. Even if the Plan is consummated, we will continue to face a number of risks, including certain risks that are beyond our control, such as further deterioration or other changes in economic conditions, changes in our industry, changes in consumer demand for, and acceptance of, our services and increasing expenses. Some of these concerns and effects typically become more acute when a case under the Bankruptcy Code continues for a protracted period without indication of how or when the case may be completed. As a result of these risks and others, there is no guarantee that the Plan will achieve our stated goals. Furthermore, even if our debts are reduced or discharged through the Plan, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing or other various means to fund our business after the completion of the Chapter 11 Cases. Irrespective of the Exit Facility, adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on favorable terms. 41 Table of Contents The DIP Credit Agreement contains restrictions that could significantly restrict our ability to operate our business. The DIP Credit Agreement contains a number of covenants which, among other things, limit the incurrence of additional debt, capital expenditures, capitalized leases, issuance of capital stock, issuance of guarantees, liens, investments, disposition of assets, dividends, certain payments, mergers, change of business, transactions with affiliates, prepayments of debt, repurchases of stock and redemptions of certain other indebtedness and other matters customarily restricted in such agreements. Our ability to comply with the covenants, agreements and restrictions contained in the DIP Credit Agreement may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with such covenants, agreements or restrictions in the future. Additionally, breach of any of the covenants imposed on us by the terms of the DIP Credit Agreement could result in a default under the DIP Credit Agreement. In the event of a default, the DIP Lenders could terminate their commitments to us and could accelerate the repayment of all of our indebtedness under the DIP Credit Agreement, if any. In such case, we may not have sufficient funds to pay the total amount of accelerated obligations, if any, and our DIP Lenders under the DIP Credit Agreement could proceed against the collateral securing the DIP Credit Agreement. Any acceleration in the repayment of our outstanding indebtedness, if any, or related foreclosure could adversely affect our business. Because our financial statements will reflect adjustments based on our application of the Reorganizations Topic of the ASC ("Fresh Start Accounting"), information reflecting our results of operations and financial condition will not be comparable to prior periods and may vary significantly from the Fresh Start Accounting adjustments. Upon our emergence from bankruptcy, we will apply fresh start accounting. As a result, the book value of our long-lived assets and the related depreciation and amortization schedules, among other things, will change. Following our emergence from bankruptcy, you will not be able to compare certain information reflecting our results of operations and financial condition to those for historical periods prior to emergence from bankruptcy. Under Fresh Start Accounting, our calculated enterprise value will be allocated to our assets based on their respective fair values. Any portion not attributed to specific tangible or identified intangible assets will be an indefinite-lived intangible asset referred to as "reorganization value in excess of value" and reported as goodwill. Risks Related to Our Substantial Indebtedness and Common Stock Our stock is no longer listed on a national securities exchange. It will likely be more difficult for stockholders and investors to sell our common stock or to obtain accurate quotations of the share price of our common stock. Effective October 26, 2009, the NYSE suspended trading in our common stock and, effective November 16, 2009, the NYSE completed its application to the SEC to delist our common stock. Our common stock is now traded on the Pink Sheets under the symbol "FRCMQ." We can provide no assurance that our common stock will continue to be traded on the Pink Sheets. The trading of our common stock on the Pink Sheets may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. We have substantial indebtedness which could have a negative impact on our financing options and liquidity position. We had approximately $2,515.4 million of total debt outstanding as of December 31, 2009. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, we had $18.4 million, net of outstanding letters of credit, available 42 Table of Contents for additional borrowing under our DIP Credit Agreement. On March 11, 2010, the Bankruptcy Court entered a final order in connection with the DIP Credit Agreement, permitting the DIP Borrowers access to the total $75.0 million of the DIP Financing, subject to the terms and conditions of the DIP Credit Agreement and related orders of the Bankruptcy Court. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had not borrowed any amounts under the DIP Credit Agreement and letters of credit totaling $1.6 million had been issued under the DIP Credit Agreement. Our overall leverage and the terms of our financing arrangements could: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; •require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to paying the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, thereby limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund future capital expenditures, working capital and other corporate purposes; •limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions; •limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; •restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the communications industry generally; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with competitors that have a less significant debt burden; and •make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. Our ability to continue to fund our debt requirements and to reduce debt may be affected by general economic, financial market, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, among other things. An inability to fund our debt requirements, reduce debt or satisfy debt covenant requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow. While we may enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher interest rates, these agreements may not offer complete protection from this risk. We are a holding company and rely on dividends, interest and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our operating subsidiaries and investments, to meet our debt service and other obligations, and to pay dividends, if any, on our common stock. We are a holding company and conduct no operations. Accordingly, our cash flow and our ability to make payments on, or repay or refinance, our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures, dividends and other cash needs will depend largely upon the cash flows of our operating subsidiaries and the payment of funds by those subsidiaries to us in the form of repayment of loans, dividends, management fees or otherwise. Distributions to us from our subsidiaries will depend on their respective operating results and will be subject to restrictions under, among other things, •the laws of their jurisdiction of organization; •the rules and regulations of state and federal regulatory authorities; •agreements of those subsidiaries, including agreements governing their indebtedness; and •regulatory orders. 43 Table of Contents Our subsidiaries have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay amounts pursuant to the Notes or to make funds available therefore, whether in the form of loans, dividends or other distributions. To operate and expand our business, service our indebtedness and meet our other cash needs, we will require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us. We may not generate sufficient funds from operations to repay or refinance our indebtedness at maturity or otherwise, to fund our operations or to pay dividends, if any, on our common stock in the future. Our ability to make payments on, or repay or refinance, our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures, unanticipated capital expenditures, dividends, if any, on our common stock in the future and other cash needs will depend largely upon our future operating performance, including our ability to execute on our business plan. Our future operating performance, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to borrow funds in the future to make payments on our indebtedness will depend on the satisfaction of the covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness. Specifically, we will need to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial condition tests. In addition, the limitations imposed by any financing arrangements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. In addition, we cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to make payments or refinance our debt or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, including: •sales of assets; •reduction or delay of capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances; or •negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. The agreements governing our indebtedness may restrict, or market or business conditions may limit, our ability to take some of these actions or the effectiveness of these actions. In addition, the orders of the state regulatory authorities approving the spin-off and the Merger and certain tax related agreements limit our ability to engage in certain of these actions following the completion of the spin-off. Our financing arrangements subject us to various restrictions that could limit our operating flexibility, our ability to make payment on our debt and to fund dividends on our common stock. Our financing arrangements contain restrictions, covenants and events of default that, among other things, require us to satisfy certain financial tests and maintain certain financial ratios and restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and to refinance our existing indebtedness. The terms of these financing arrangements impose, and any future indebtedness may impose, various restrictions and covenants on us that could limit our ability to respond to market conditions, provide for capital investment needs, pay dividends in the future or take advantage of business opportunities by limiting the amount of additional borrowings we may incur. These restrictions may include compliance with, or maintenance of, certain financial tests and ratios and may limit or prohibit our ability to, among other things: •incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; •pay dividends in the future or make other distributions on our stock or repurchase or redeem stock; •create liens; 44 Table of Contents •redeem or prepay certain debt; •make certain investments; •engage in specified sales of assets; •enter into transactions with affiliates; •enter new lines of business; •engage in consolidation, mergers and acquisitions; and •make certain capital expenditures. These restrictions on our ability to operate our business could seriously harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition and other corporate opportunities. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants and maintain these financial tests and ratios. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing arrangements could result in a default under those arrangements and under other arrangements containing cross-default provisions. In addition, the limitations imposed by any financing arrangements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. Limitations on our ability to use NOL carryforwards, and other factors requiring us to pay cash to satisfy our tax liabilities in future periods, may affect our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends to our stockholders in the future. Our initial public offering in February 2005 resulted in an "ownership change" within the meaning of the U.S. federal income tax laws addressing NOL carryforwards, alternative minimum tax credits and other similar tax attributes. Moreover, the Merger with Spinco resulted in a further ownership change for these purposes. As a result of these ownership changes, there are specific limitations on our ability to use these NOL carryforwards and other tax attributes from periods prior to the initial public offering and the Merger. Although we do not expect that these limitations will materially affect our U.S. federal and state income tax liability in the near term, it is possible in the future if we were to generate taxable income in excess of the limitation on usage of NOL carryforwards that these limitations could limit our ability to utilize the carryforwards and, therefore, result in an increase in our U.S. federal and state income tax payments. In addition, in the future we will be required to pay cash to satisfy our tax liabilities when all of our NOL carryforwards have been used or have expired. Limitations on our usage of NOL carryforwards, and other factors requiring us to pay cash taxes in the future, would reduce the funds available to service our debt and pay dividends in the future. The price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate substantially, which could negatively affect holders of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of various factors, such as the Chapter 11 Cases, period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results, the volume of sales of our common stock, our dividend policy, dilution, developments in the communications industry, the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts, competitive factors, regulatory developments, economic and other external factors, general market conditions and market conditions affecting the stock of communications companies in particular. Communications companies have in the past experienced extreme volatility in the trading prices and volumes of their securities, which has often been unrelated to operating performance. High levels of market volatility may have a significant adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, in the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies 45 Table of Contents following periods of volatility in their stock prices. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources. Future sales or the possibility of future sales of a substantial amount of our common stock may depress the price of our common stock. Future sales, or the availability for sale in the public market, of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock, and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, may also make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital by selling equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. We may issue shares of our common stock, or other securities, from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. In the event any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of our common stock, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be significant. We may also grant registration rights covering those shares or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. Our stockholders may not receive the same level of dividends as historically paid by us or any dividends at all. On March 4, 2009, our board of directors voted to suspend our quarterly dividend. We currently do not expect to reinstate the payment of such dividends. Future dividends with respect to shares of our common stock, if any, will depend on, among other things, our cash flows, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to make dividend payments in the future is expected to be limited by the orders of the state regulatory authorities approving the Merger as modified in connection with the Plan and the agreements governing our indebtedness. Risks Related to Our Business Since the Cutover, we have experienced certain systems functionality issues that have had, and may continue to have, a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. On January 30, 2009, we began the Cutover from Verizon's systems to our new, fully integrated systems platform. On February 9, 2009, we began to independently operate our business on the new systems. Following the Cutover, a number of the key back-office systems, such as order entry, order management and billing, have experienced certain functionality issues as well as issues with communication between the systems. Although we have made measurable progress in remedying these functionality issues, a number of issues still remain. In particular, our efforts to collect unpaid bills are hampered by a lack of systems functionality, and we have incurred significant incremental third party contractor expenses as a result of these functionality issues, both of which have had a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. At this time, we expect that the delay in cash collections and the incurrence of incremental costs will continue during 2010. In addition, these functionality related issues may continue to have a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity beyond 2010, and additional issues related to the Cutover, including the accounting error and the billing and other adjustments that necessitated the Restatement, have arisen and may continue to arise, which could have a further negative impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 46 Table of Contents We provide services to customers over access lines, and if we lose access lines, our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. We generate revenue primarily by delivering voice and data services over access lines. Legacy FairPoint and our Northern New England operations have both experienced net voice access line losses in the past few years. Legacy FairPoint experienced a 27.0% decline in the number of voice access lines (adjusted for acquisitions and divestitures) for the period from January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2009 and an 8.1% decline for the period from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009. Our Northern New England operations experienced a 37.0% decline in number of voice access lines for the period from January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2009 and a 12.2% decline for the period from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009. These losses resulted mainly from competition, including competition from bundled offerings by cable companies, the use of alternate technologies as well as challenging economic conditions and the offering of DSL services, which prompts some customers to cancel second line service. We believe that the long period between the announcement of the Merger in January 2007 and the closing of the Merger also may have contributed to our Northern New England operations' voice access line losses. Additionally, the Chapter 11 Cases may have an adverse effect on our ability to retain customers. We expect to continue to experience net access line losses. Our inability to retain access lines could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We provide access services to other communications companies, and if these companies were to become insolvent or experience substantial financial difficulties, our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. We originate and terminate calls on behalf of long distance carriers and other interexchange carriers over our network in exchange for access charges. Interstate and intrastate access charges represented approximately 33.9% of our total revenues in 2009. Should one or more of the carriers that we do business with become insolvent or experience substantial financial difficulties, our inability to timely collect access charges from them could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to competition that may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We face intense competition from a variety of sources for our local calling, long distance and Internet services in a majority of the areas we now serve. Regulations and technology change quickly in the communications industry, and changes in these factors historically have had, and may in the future have, a significant impact on competitive dynamics. In most of our services areas, we face competition from wireless carriers for both local calling and long distance services. As technology and economies of scale improve, competition from wireless carriers is expected to increase. We also face increasing competition from wireline and cable television companies for our local calling, long distance and Internet services. For example, we estimate that as of December 31, 2009, a majority of the customers that we serve had access to local calling, long distance and Internet services through a cable television company. Wireline and cable television companies have the ability to bundle their services, which has and is expected to continue to intensify the competition we face from these providers. VoIP providers, Internet service providers, satellite companies and electric utilities also compete with our services, and such competition is expected to continue to increase in the future. In addition, many of our competitors have access to a larger workforce and have substantially greater name-brand recognition and financial, technological and other resources than we do. In addition, consolidation and strategic alliances within the communications industry or the development of new technologies have had and may continue to have an effect on our competitive 47 Table of Contents position. We cannot predict the number of competitors that will emerge, particularly in light of possible regulatory or legislative actions that could facilitate or impede market entry, but increased competition from existing and new entities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Competition may lead to loss of revenues and profitability as a result of numerous factors, including: •loss of customers (given the likelihood that when we lose customers for local service, we will also lose them for all related services); •reduced network usage by existing customers who may use alternative providers for long distance and data services; •reductions in the service prices that may be necessary to meet competition; and •increases in marketing expenditures and discount and promotional campaigns. We may not be able to successfully integrate new technologies, respond effectively to customer requirements or provide new services. Rapid and significant changes in technology and new service introductions occur frequently in the communications industry and industry standards evolve continually. We cannot predict the effect of these changes on our competitive position, profitability or industry. Technological developments may reduce the competitiveness of our networks and require unbudgeted upgrades or the procurement of additional products that could be expensive and time consuming. In addition, new products and services arising out of technological developments may reduce the attractiveness of our services. If we fail to adapt successfully to technological changes or obsolescence or fail to obtain access to important new technologies, we could lose customers and be limited in our ability to attract new customers and sell new services to our existing customers. Our ability to respond to new technological developments may be diminished or delayed while our management devotes significant effort and resources to integrating Legacy FairPoint's business and our Northern New England operations. The geographic concentration of our operations in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont make our business susceptible to local economic and regulatory conditions and consumer trends, and an economic downturn, recession or unfavorable regulatory action in any of those states may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 86% of our access line equivalents were located in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results will depend significantly upon economic conditions and consumer trends in these markets. From January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009, our Northern New England operations experienced a 12.2% decline in total voice access lines in service, compared to a decline of 8.1% for Legacy FairPoint during the same period. A deterioration in economic conditions in any of these markets could result in a further decrease in demand for our services and resulting loss of access line equivalents which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, if state regulators in Maine, New Hampshire or Vermont were to take an action that is adverse to our operations in those states, we could suffer greater harm from that action by state regulators than we would from action in other states because of the concentration of our operations in those states. 48 Table of Contents We outsource a portion of our billing function. If our service provider inadequately performs or experiences a significant degradation or failure with respect to the services it provides or the applicable agreement is terminated, it could have a significant impact on the operation of our business. We have an agreement with an outside service provider to perform a portion of our billing functions. If our service provider is unable to adequately perform such services or if it experiences a significant degradation or failure with respect to such services, it could result in disruptions in our billing, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Furthermore, if the agreement with our service provider is terminated for any reason, we may be unable to find an alternative service provider in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, and may be unable to perform the services provided ourselves resulting in billing disruptions and/or increased costs to us. A network disruption could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose customers. To be successful, we will need to continue to provide our customers reliable service over our expanded network. Some of the risks to our network and infrastructure include: •physical damage to access lines; •widespread power surges or outages; •software defects in critical systems; and •disruptions beyond our control. Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and incur expenses. We depend on third parties for our provision of long distance and bandwidth services. Our provision of long distance and bandwidth services are dependent on underlying agreements with other carriers that provide us with transport and termination services. These agreements are based, in part, on our estimate of future supply and demand and may contain minimum volume commitments. If we overestimate demand, we may be forced to pay for services we do not need. If we underestimate demand, we may need to acquire additional capacity on a short-term basis at unfavorable prices, assuming additional capacity is available. If additional capacity is not available, we will not be able to meet this demand. In addition, if we cannot meet any minimum volume commitments, we may be subject to underutilization charges, termination charges, or rate increases that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel. Our success depends upon the talents and efforts of our senior management team. None of our senior executives, with the exception of David L. Hauser, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, are employed pursuant to an employment agreement. Mr. Hauser's current employment agreement expires on June 30, 2012. The loss of any member of our senior management team, due to retirement or otherwise, and the inability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and management personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 49 Table of Contents We will be exposed to risks relating to evaluations of internal control systems required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, including accelerated reporting requirements and expanded disclosures regarding evaluations of internal control systems. With respect to internal control over financial reporting, standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board define a material weakness as a deficiency in internal controls over financial reporting that results in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. If our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting in the future in accordance with the annual assessments and quarterly evaluations required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective which could result in sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. In addition, any such material weakness could result in material misstatements in our financial statements and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. We note that we have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting which existed as of December 31, 2009, which material weaknesses are discussed in greater detail in "Part II—Item 9A.Controls and Procedures" and "—We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting which existed as of December 31, 2009. If the steps we have taken to remedy these material weaknesses are not successful or we otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, such a failure could result in additional material misstatements in our financial statements, prevent us from providing timely financial statements or meeting our reporting requirements both with the SEC and under our debt obligations, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock." We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting which existed as of December 31, 2009. If the steps we have taken to remedy these material weaknesses are not successful or we otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, such a failure could result in additional material misstatements in our financial statements, prevent us from providing timely financial statements or meeting our reporting requirements both with the SEC and under our debt obligations, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. As discussed in "Part II—Item 9A.Controls and Procedures," in connection with the Restatement, we concluded that the following material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting existed as of December 31, 2009: •Our information technology controls were not adequate. Adequate testing was not performed to ensure that certain revenue transactions were properly accounted for and transferred from our billing system to our general ledger. Also, access to our information systems was not appropriately restricted. •Our management oversight and review procedures designed to monitor the accuracy of period-end accounting activities were ineffective. Specifically, our account reconciliation processes were not adequate to properly identify and resolve discrepancies between our billing system and our general ledger in a timely manner. In addition, control weaknesses existed relating to revenue, operating expenses, accounts receivable, fixed assets and income taxes. As a result of these material weaknesses, our management concluded that our disclosure controls were not effective as of December 31, 2009. Effective in February 2010, our management has taken steps to remediate these issues. If the steps we have taken to remedy these material weaknesses are not successful or we otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, such a failure could 50 Table of Contents result in additional material misstatements in our financial statements, prevent us from providing timely financial statements or meeting our reporting requirements both with the SEC and under our debt obligations, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if assets held in our Company sponsored pension plans suffer significant losses in market value. We sponsor pension and post-retirement healthcare plans for certain employees. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we experienced actual gains on pension plan assets totaling 17.3%. Since the actuarial value of plan assets is dependent on the value of the assets held by each plan, a significant decline in the market value of such assets could have a detrimental impact on our pension plans and could result in us making additional contributions to these plans, as required under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. Furthermore, if the third party trustee who holds these plan assets were to become insolvent, access to the plan assets could be limited, and we could be required to pay participant benefits from our assets. Such required contributions could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Regulatory Environment We are subject to significant regulations that could change in a manner adverse to us. We operate in a heavily regulated industry. Laws and regulations applicable to us and our competitors may be, and have been, challenged in the courts, and could be changed by Congress or regulators. In addition, the following factors could have a significant impact on us: Risk of loss or reduction of network access charge revenues. A portion of our revenues comes from network access charges, which are paid to us by intrastate and interstate interexchange carriers for originating and terminating communications in the regions served. This also includes Universal Service Support payments for local switching support, long-term support, and ICLS. In recent years, several of these long-distance carriers have declared bankruptcy. Future declarations of bankruptcy by a carrier that utilizes our access services could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The amount of access charge revenues that we receive is based on rates set by federal and state regulatory bodies, and those rates could change in the future. Further, from time to time federal and state regulatory bodies conduct rate cases, "earnings" reviews, or make adjustments to price cap formulas that may result in rate changes. In addition, reforms of the federal and state access charge systems, combined with the development of competition, have caused the aggregate amount of access charges paid by long-distance carriers to decrease. Additional reforms have been proposed. If any of the currently proposed reforms were adopted by the FCC it would likely involve significant changes in the access charge system and, if not offset by a revenue replacement mechanism, could potentially result in a significant decrease in or elimination of access charges. Decreases in or loss of access charges may or may not result in offsetting increases in local, subscriber line or Universal Service Support revenues. Regulatory developments of this type could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Risk of loss or reduction of Universal Service Fund support. We receive federal Universal Service Support, referred to as the Universal Service Fund, and in some cases, state universal support, to support our operations in high-cost areas. These federal revenues include Universal Service Support payments for local switching support, ICLS, or IAS. High-cost support for the operations conducted by our Northern New England operations, referred to as our non-rural operations or non-rural LECs, and for FairPoint's traditional, rural local exchange operations, referred to as our rural operations or rural LECs, is determined pursuant to different methodologies, aspects of which are now under review. The 51 Table of Contents FCC has proposed changes to the Universal Service Fund. Any changes to the existing rules could reduce the Universal Service Fund revenues we receive. If we were unable to receive such support, or if that support was reduced, our Northern New England operations would be unable to operate as profitably as they have historically. Moreover, if we raise prices for services to offset these losses of Universal Service Fund payments, the increased pricing of our services may disadvantage us competitively in the marketplace, resulting in additional potential revenue loss. Further, the total payments from the Universal Service Fund to our rural operations will fluctuate based upon our rural company average cost per loop compared to the national average cost per loop and are likely to decline based on historical trends. We receive IAS in all of our price cap study areas (Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont) and ICLS in our rate-of-return study areas. The FCC also is considering changes to its rules governing who contributes to the Universal Service Support mechanisms, and on what basis. Any changes in the FCC's rules governing the distribution of such support or the manner in which entities contribute to Universal Service could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Risk of loss of statutory exemption from burdensome interconnection rules imposed on ILECs. Our rural LECs generally are exempt from the more burdensome requirements of the 1996 Act governing the rights of competitors to interconnect to ILEC networks and to utilize discrete network elements of the incumbent's network at favorable rates. To the extent state regulators decide that it is in the public interest to extend some or all of these requirements to our rural LECs, we would be required to provide UNEs to competitors in our rural telephone company areas. As a result, more competitors could enter our traditional telephone markets than are currently expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Risks posed by costs of regulatory compliance. Regulations create significant compliance costs for us. Subsidiaries that provide intrastate services are generally subject to certification, tariff filing, and other ongoing regulatory requirements by state regulators. Our interstate and intrastate access services are currently provided in accordance with tariffs filed with the FCC and state regulatory authorities, respectively. Challenges in the future to our tariffs by regulators or third parties or delays in obtaining certifications and regulatory approvals could cause us to incur substantial legal and administrative expenses, and, if successful, these challenges could adversely affect the rates that we are able to charge our customers. In addition, our non-rural operations are subject to regulations not applicable to our rural operations, including but not limited to requirements relating to interconnection, the provision of UNEs, and the other market-opening obligations set forth in the 1996 Act. In approving the transfer of authorizations to us, the FCC determined that our non-rural operations would be regulated as a Bell Operating Company following the completion of the Merger, subject to the same regulatory requirements that currently apply to the other Bell Operating Companies. The FCC also stated that we would be entitled to the same regulatory relief that Verizon New England has obtained in the region. Any changes made in connection with these obligations could increase our non-rural operations' costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Moreover, we cannot predict the precise manner in which the FCC will apply the Bell Operating Company regulatory framework to us. State regulators have also imposed conditions on their approval of the transactions that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our business also may be affected by legislation and regulation imposing new or greater obligations related to open Internet access, assisting law enforcement, bolstering homeland security, minimizing environmental impacts, protecting customer privacy, or addressing other issues that affect our business. We cannot predict whether or to what extent the FCC might modify its rules or what compliance with those new rules might cost. Similarly, we cannot predict whether or to what extent 52 Table of Contents federal or state legislators or regulators might impose new network access, security, environmental, or other obligations on our business. Risk of losses from rate reduction. Our local exchange companies that operate pursuant to intrastate rate of return regulation are subject to state regulatory authority over their intrastate telecommunications service rates. State review of these rates could lead to rate reductions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. For a more thorough discussion of the regulatory issues that may affect our business, see "Item 1. Business—Regulatory Environment." ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 