Item 1A. Risk Factors — We have identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. If we fail to remedy this material weakness, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.” In addition, following the merger, we will begin evaluating our internal control systems with respect to the Spinco business to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the internal controls of the Spinco business as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We will be performing the systems and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and independent registered public accounting firm attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. While we expect that we will be able to fully implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 with respect to the Spinco business for the year ending December 31, 2009, due to the magnitude of the merger and the new processes and controls being developed in conjunction with the integration of the Spinco business, we may not be able to successfully perform this assessment for the year ending December 31, 2009. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 with respect to the Spinco business in a timely manner or with adequate compliance or if we are otherwise unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective for any fiscal year, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. We have identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. If we fail to remedy this material weakness, that failure could result in material 32 Table of Contents misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires our management to make an assessment of the design and operating effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures. Standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board define a material weakness in these disclosure controls and procedures as a deficiency in internal control over financial reporting that results in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As discussed below in “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures,” we have concluded that the following material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting existed as of December 31, 2007: • Our management oversight and review procedures designed to monitor the effectiveness of control activities in our northern New England division, which was formed in 2007 to handle transactions relating to the merger, referred to as the northern New England division, were ineffective. As a result, errors existed in capitalized software costs, operating expenses, accounts receivable, prepaid expenses, accounts payable and accrued expenses in our preliminary 2007 consolidated financial statements. If we fail to remedy this material weakness, that failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Risks to the Company If the Transactions are Consummated The integration of our business and Spinco’s business may not be successful. The acquisition of the Spinco business is the largest and most significant acquisition we have undertaken. Our management will be required to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the process of integrating the operations of our business and Spinco’s business, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business, service existing customers, attract new customers, develop new services or strategies and respond to increasing forms of competition. Due to, among other things, the size and complexity of the Northern New England business and the activities required to separate Spinco’s operations from Verizon’s, we may be unable to integrate the Spinco business into our operations in an efficient, timely and effective manner. Our inability to complete this integration successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. All of the risks associated with the integration process could be exacerbated by the fact that we may not have a sufficient number of employees to integrate our and Spinco’s businesses or to operate our business. Furthermore, Spinco offers services that we have no experience in providing, the most significant of which are competitive local exchange carrier wholesale services. Our failure or inability to hire or retain employees with the requisite skills and knowledge to run our business following the merger, may have a material adverse effect on our business. The inability of our management to manage the integration process effectively, or any significant interruption of business activities as a result of the integration process, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we continue to require services from Verizon under the TSA after the one-year anniversary of the closing of the merger, the fees payable by us to Verizon pursuant to the TSA will increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The aggregate fees expected to be payable by us under the TSA for the six-month period following the merger will be approximately $132.9 million. However, if we require twelve months or eighteen months of transition services following the merger, the aggregate fees expected to be payable will be approximately $226.9 million and $336.2 million, respectively. We have agreed to the appointment of an independent third-party monitor for the cutover process contemplated by the TSA. The monitor will consult with representatives of the VDPS, the MPUC, and the NHPUC. The monitor will evalute and approve our testing and cutover readiness process to evaluate our readiness to support operations after the cutover from the systems that will be provided by the Verizon Group during the period of the TSA. Any delay caused by the evaluation and approval process would result in the 33 Table of Contents payment of monthly fees to Verizon for an additional period and may limit our ability to introduce new services. See “Item 1. Business — Regulatory Environment — State Regulation — Regulatory Conditions to the Merger.” The integration of our business and Spinco’s business may present significant systems integration risks, including risks associated with the ability to convert from Spinco’s customer sales, service and support operations platform into our new customer care, service delivery and network monitoring and maintenance platforms. In order to operate following the merger, we will be required to identify, acquire or develop, test, implement, maintain and manage systems and processes which provide the functionality currently performed for the Northern New England business by over 600 systems of Verizon. Of these Verizon systems, approximately one third relate to customer sales, service and support. Another third of the Verizon systems support network monitoring and related field operations. The remaining Verizon systems enable finance, payroll, logistics and other administrative activities. Over 80% of the information systems used in support of the Northern New England business are Verizon proprietary systems. We entered into the MSA with Capgemini to assist in the identification and conversion of systems to be deployed following the merger. The collective experience and knowledge of FairPoint, Capgemini (during the term of the MSA) and Verizon (during the pre-closing period and the period of the TSA) will be essential to the success of the integration. The parties’ inability or failure to implement successfully their plans and procedures or the insufficiency of those plans and procedures could result in failure of or delays in the merger integration and could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. This could require us to acquire and deploy additional systems, extend the TSA and pay increasing monthly fees under the TSA. The failure of any of our systems could result in our inability to adequately bill and provide service to our customers or meet our financial and regulatory reporting obligations. The failure of any of our billing and operational support services systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also implementing new systems to provide for and meet financial and regulatory reporting obligations. A failure of these systems may result in us not being able to meet our financial and regulatory reporting obligations. We may not realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from the merger. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating our and Spinco’s businesses. Our success in realizing these synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of our and Spinco’s businesses and operations. Even if we are able to integrate our and Spinco’s business operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities that we currently expect from this integration within the anticipated time frame or at all. For example, we may be unable to eliminate duplicative costs, or the benefits from the merger may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the companies. If the assets transferred to Spinco by Verizon are insufficient to operate our business, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pursuant to the distribution agreement, the Verizon Group will contribute to Spinco and entities that will become Spinco’s subsidiaries (i) specified assets and liabilities associated with the local exchange business of Verizon New England in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont, and (ii) the customers of the Verizon Group’s related long distance and Internet service provider businesses in those states. The contributed assets may not be sufficient to operate our business. Accordingly, we may have to use assets or resources from our existing business or acquire additional assets in order to operate the Spinco business, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 34 Table of Contents Pursuant to the distribution agreement, we have certain rights to cause Verizon to transfer to us any assets required to be transferred to Spinco or its subsidiaries under that agreement which were not transferred as required. If Verizon were unable or unwilling to transfer those assets to us, or Verizon and we were to disagree about whether those assets were required to be transferred to Spinco under the distribution agreement, we might not be able to obtain those assets or similar assets from others. Conditions imposed by state regulatory authorities in connection with their approval of the spin-off and the merger may diminish the anticipated benefits of the merger. Completion of the spin-off and the merger is conditioned upon the receipt of certain government consents, approvals, orders and authorizations. The parties have received the required approvals of the FCC and of state regulatory authorities. However, the state regulatory authorities in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont that approved the spin-off and the merger have imposed conditions on us that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These conditions include mandatory capital expenditures, minimum service quality standards, commitments to expand substantially the availability of broadband service and restrictions on our payment of dividends. See “Item 1. Business — Regulatory Environment — State Regulation — Regulatory Conditions to the Merger.” Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected following the merger if we are not able to replace certain contracts which will not be assigned to Spinco. Certain contracts, including supply contracts used in the Northern New England business, will not be assigned to Spinco by the Verizon Group. Accordingly, we will have to obtain new agreements for the goods and services covered by these contracts in order to operate the Spinco business following the merger. There can be no assurance that we will be able to replace these contracts on terms favorable to us or at all. Our failure to enter into new agreements prior to the closing of the merger may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial conditions and results of operations following the merger. In addition, certain wholesale, large business, Internet service provider and other customer contracts which are required to be assigned to Spinco by the Verizon Group require the consent of the customer party to the contract to effect this assignment. The Company and the Verizon Group may be unable to obtain these consents on terms favorable to us or at all, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations following the merger. The geographic concentration of our operations in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont following the merger will make our business susceptible to local economic and regulatory conditions, and an economic downturn, recession or unfavorable regulatory action in any of those states may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently operate 30 different rural local exchange carriers in 18 states. No single state accounted for more than 22% of our access line equivalents as of December 31, 2007, which limited our exposure to competition, local economic downturns and state regulatory changes. Following the merger, we expect that 88% of our access line equivalents will be located in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results will depend significantly upon economic conditions in these markets. A deterioration or recession in any of these markets could result in a decrease in demand for our services and resulting loss of access lines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if state regulators in Maine, New Hampshire or Vermont were to take action that was adverse to our operations in those states, we could suffer greater harm from that action by state regulators than we would from action in other states because of the concentration of our operations in those states following the merger. If the spin-off does not constitute a tax-free spin-off under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, or the merger does not constitute a tax-free reorganization under section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, including as a result of actions taken in connection with the spin-off or the merger or as 35 Table of Contents a result of subsequent acquisitions of stock of Verizon or our stock, then Verizon, us or Verizon stockholders may be responsible for payment of substantial United States federal income taxes. The spin-off and merger are conditioned upon Verizon’s receipt of a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that the spin-off, including (i) the contribution of specified assets and liabilities associated with the local exchange business of Verizon New England in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont, and the customers of the Verizon Group’s related long distance and Internet service provider businesses in those states, to Spinco, (ii) the receipt by the Verizon Group of the Spinco securities and the special cash payment and (iii) the exchange by the Verizon Group of the Spinco securities for Verizon Group debt, will qualify as tax-free to Verizon, Spinco and the Verizon stockholders for United States federal income tax purposes under Section 355 and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, referred to as the Code. The private letter ruling was issued by the Internal Revenue Service on October 5, 2007. Although a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service generally is binding on the Internal Revenue Service, if the factual representations or assumptions made in the letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, then Verizon and we will not be able to rely on the ruling. The spin-off and merger are also conditioned upon the receipt by Verizon of an opinion of its counsel to the effect that the spin-off will be tax-free to Verizon, Spinco and the stockholders of Verizon under Section 355 and other related provisions of the Code. The opinion will rely on the Internal Revenue Service letter ruling as to matters covered by the ruling. Lastly, the spin-off and the merger are conditioned on Verizon’s receipt of an opinion of its counsel and our receipt of an opinion of our counsel, each to the effect that the merger will be treated as a tax-free reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code. All of these opinions will be based on, among other things, current law and certain representations and assumptions as to factual matters made by Verizon, Spinco and us. Any change in currently applicable law, which may or may not be retroactive, or the failure of any factual representation or assumption to be true, correct and complete in all material respects, could adversely affect the conclusions reached by counsel in their respective opinions. The opinions will not be binding on the Internal Revenue Service or the courts, and the Internal Revenue Service or the courts may not agree with the opinions. The spin-off would become taxable to Verizon pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more of the shares of either Verizon common stock or Spinco common stock (including our common stock, as successor to Spinco) were acquired, directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the spin-off. Because Verizon stockholders will own more than 50% of our common stock following the merger, the merger, standing alone, will not cause the spin-off to be taxable to Verizon under Section 355(e). However, if the Internal Revenue Service were to determine that other acquisitions of Verizon common stock or our common stock, either before or after the spin-off and the merger, were part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the spin-off, this determination could result in the recognition of gain by Verizon under Section 355(e). In that case, the gain recognized by Verizon likely would be substantial. In connection with the request for the Internal Revenue Service private letter rulings and the opinion of Verizon’s counsel, Verizon represented that the spin-off is not part of any such plan or series of related transactions. In certain circumstances, under the tax sharing agreement, we would be required to indemnify Verizon against tax-related losses to Verizon that arise as a result of a disqualifying action taken by us or our subsidiaries after the distribution (including for two years after the spin-off (i) entering into any agreement, understanding or arrangement or engaging in any substantial negotiations with respect to any transaction involving the acquisition or issuance of our stock, (ii) repurchasing any shares of our stock, except to the extent consistent with guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service, (iii) ceasing or permitting certain subsidiaries to cease the active conduct of the Spinco business and (iv) voluntarily dissolving, liquidating, merging or consolidating with any other person unless the Company is the survivor of the merger or consolidation, except in accordance with the restrictions in the tax sharing agreement) or a breach of certain representations and covenants. See “— We may be affected by significant restrictions following the merger with respect to certain actions that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the spin-off and the merger.” If Verizon were to recognize a gain on the spin-off for reasons not related to a disqualifying action or breach by us, Verizon would not be entitled to be indemnified under the tax sharing agreement. 36 Table of Contents We may be affected by significant restrictions following the merger with respect to certain actions that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the spin-off or the merger. The tax sharing agreement restricts FairPoint from taking certain actions that could cause the spin-off to be taxable to Verizon under Section 355(e) or otherwise jeopardize the tax-free status of the spin-off or the merger, which the tax sharing agreement refers to as disqualifying actions, including: • generally, for two years after the spin-off, taking, or permitting any of its subsidiaries to take, an action that might be a disqualifying action; • for two years after the spin-off, entering into any agreement, understanding or arrangement or engaging in any substantial negotiations with respect to any transaction involving the acquisition or issuance of our capital stock, or options to acquire or other rights in respect of our capital stock unless, generally, the shares are issued to our qualifying employees or retirement plans, each in accordance with “safe harbors” under regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service; • for two years after the spin-off, repurchasing our capital stock, except to the extent consistent with guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service; • for two years after the spin-off, permitting certain wholly owned subsidiaries that were wholly owned subsidiaries of Spinco at the time of the spin-off to cease the active conduct of the Spinco business to the extent it was conducted immediately prior to the spin-off; and • for two years after the spin-off, voluntarily dissolving, liquidating, merging or consolidating with any other person, unless the Company is the survivor of the merger or consolidation and the transaction otherwise complies with the restrictions in the tax sharing agreement. Nevertheless, we will be permitted to take any of the actions described above in the event that it obtains Verizon’s consent, or an opinion of counsel or a supplemental Internal Revenue Service ruling to the effect that the disqualifying action will not affect the tax-free status of the spin-off and the merger. To the extent that the tax-free status of the transactions is lost because of a disqualifying action taken by the Company or any of its subsidiaries after the distribution date, whether or not the required consent, opinion or ruling was obtained, we generally would be required to indemnify, defend and hold harmless Verizon and its subsidiaries (or any successor to any of them) from and against any resulting tax-related losses incurred by Verizon. Because of these restrictions, we may be limited in the amount of capital stock that we can issue to make acquisitions or raise additional capital in the two years subsequent to the spin-off and merger. Also, our indemnity obligation to Verizon might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control during this two-year period that our stockholders may consider favorable. Risks Related to Our Regulatory Environment We are subject to significant regulations that could change in a manner adverse to us. We operate in a heavily regulated industry, and the majority of our revenues are supported by regulations, including access revenue and Universal Service Fund support for the provision of telephone services in rural areas. Laws and regulations applicable to us and our competitors may be, and have been, challenged in the courts, and could be changed by Congress or regulators. In addition, any of the following have the potential to have a significant impact on us: Risk of loss or reduction of network access revenues. A significant portion of our revenues comes from network access charges, which are paid to us by intrastate and interstate long distance carriers for originating and terminating calls in the regions served and for providing special access services which connect interexchange third-party private line carriers to their end users in our service areas. This also includes Universal Service Fund payments for local switching support, long term support and interstate common line support. In recent years, several long distance carriers have declared bankruptcy. Future declarations of bankruptcy by a carrier, although less likely due to recent industry consolidation, that utilizes our access services could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 37 Table of Contents The amount of access charge revenues that we currently receive is based on rates set by federal and state regulatory bodies, and those rates could change in the future. Further, from time to time federal and state regulatory bodies conduct rate cases, “earnings” reviews, or make adjustments to price cap formulas that may result in rate changes. In addition, reforms of the federal and state access charge systems, combined with the development of competition, have caused the aggregate amount of access charges paid by long distance carriers to decrease. See “Item 1. Business — Regulatory Environment — Federal Regulation — Interstate Access Charges.” If any of the currently proposed reforms were adopted by the FCC it would likely involve significant changes in the access charge system and, if not offset by a revenue replacement mechanism, could potentially result in a significant decrease in or elimination of access charges. Decreases in or loss of access charges may or may not result in offsetting increases in local, subscriber line or universal service support revenues. Regulatory developments of this type could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risk of loss or reduction of Universal Service Fund support. We receive Universal Service Fund revenues (and equivalent state universal service support) to support our operations in high cost areas. These federal revenues include universal service service support payments for local switching support, interstate common line support or interstate access support. High cost support for our rural and non-rural operations is determined pursuant to different methodologies, aspects of which are now under review. See “Item 1. Business — Regulatory Environment — Federal Regulation — Universal Service Support.” Any changes to the existing rules could reduce the Universal Service Fund revenues we receive following the merger. Corresponding changes in state universal service support could likewise have a negative effect on the revenues we receive. Further, the total payments from the Universal Service Fund to our rural operations will fluctuate based upon our rural company average cost per loop compared to the national average cost per loop and are likely to decline based on historical trends. See “Item 1. Business — Regulatory Environment — Federal Regulation — Universal Service Support.” We will also receive other Universal Service Fund support payments, including Interstate Access Support, in all three of our price cap study areas following the merger (Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont) and Interstate Common Line Support in our rate-of-return study areas. If we were unable to receive such support, or if that support was reduced, many of the operations of the Northern New England business would be unable to operate as profitably as they have historically. Moreover, if we raise prices for services to offset losses of Universal Service Fund payments, the increased pricing of our services may disadvantage us competitively in the marketplace, resulting in additional potential revenue loss. Furthermore, any changes in the FCC’s rules governing the distribution of such support or the manner in which entities contribute to the Universal Service Fund could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See “Item 1. Business — Regulatory Environment — Federal Regulation — Universal Service Support.” Risk of loss of statutory exemption from burdensome interconnection rules imposed on incumbent local exchange carriers. Our rural local exchange carriers are exempt from the 1996 Act’s more burdensome requirements governing the rights of competitors to interconnect to incumbent local exchange carrier networks and to utilize discrete network elements of the incumbent’s network at favorable rates. To the extent that state regulators decide that it is in the public interest to extend some or all of these requirements to our rural local exchange carriers, we would be required to provide unbundled network elements to competitors in our rural telephone company areas. As a result, more competitors could enter our traditional telephone markets than are currently expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks posed by costs of regulatory compliance. Regulations create significant compliance costs for us, and are expected to continue to do so. Subsidiaries that provide intrastate services are generally subject to certification, tariff filing and other ongoing regulatory requirements by state regulators. Our interstate access services are currently provided in accordance with tariffs filed with the FCC and state regulatory authorities. Challenges in the future to our tariffs by regulators or third parties or delays in obtaining certifications and regulatory approvals could cause us to incur substantial legal and administrative expenses, and, if successful, these challenges could adversely affect the rates that we are able to charge our customers. 38 Table of Contents In addition, our non-rural operations following the merger will be subject to extensive regulations not applicable to the rural operations, including but not limited to requirements relating to interconnection, the provision of unbundled network elements, and the other market-opening obligations set forth in the 1996 Act. See “Item 1. Business — Regulatory Environment — Federal Regulation — Local Service Competition” for a description of these requirements. In approving the transfer of authorizations to us, the FCC determined that non-rural operations would be considered a Bell Operating Company following the completion of the transactions, and will be subject to the same regulatory requirements that currently apply to the other Bell Operating Companies. The FCC also stated that we would be entitled to the same regulatory relief that Verizon New England has obtained in the region. See “Item 1. Business — Regulatory Environment — Federal Regulation” for a description of these requirements. Any changes made in connection with these obligations could increase our non-rural operations’ costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Moreover, we cannot predict the precise manner in which the FCC will apply the Bell Operating Company regulatory framework to our company. State regulators in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont have also imposed conditions on their approval of the transactions that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. See “Item 1. Business — Recent Developments — Regulatory Conditions” and “Item 1. Business — Regulatory Environment.” Our business also may be impacted by legislation and regulation imposing new or greater obligations related to assisting law enforcement, bolstering homeland security, minimizing environmental impacts, protecting customer privacy or addressing other issues that impact our business. For example, existing provisions of the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act and FCC regulations implementing that legislation require communications carriers to ensure that their equipment, facilities, and services are able to facilitate authorized electronic surveillance. We cannot predict whether or to what extent the FCC might modify its Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act rules or any other rules or what compliance with new rules might cost. Similarly, we cannot predict whether or to what extent federal or state legislators or regulators might impose new security, environmental or other obligations on our business. For a more thorough discussion of the regulatory issues that may affect our business, see “Item 1. Business — Regulatory Environment.” Risk of loss from rate reduction. Our local exchange companies that operate pursuant to intrastate rate of return regulation are subject to state regulatory authority over their intrastate telecommunications service rates. State review of these rates could lead to rate reductions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory changes in the communications industry could adversely affect our business by facilitating greater competition, reducing potential revenues or raising our costs. The 1996 Act provides for significant changes and increased competition in the communications industry, including competition for local communications and long distance services. This statute and the FCC’s implementing regulations could be submitted for judicial review or affected by future rulings of the FCC’s thus making it difficult to predict whether the legislation will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our competitors. Several regulatory and judicial proceedings have concluded, are underway or may soon be commenced, that address issues affecting our operations and those of our competitors. We cannot predict the outcome of these developments, nor can there be any assurance that these changes will not have a material adverse effect on us or our industry. For a more thorough discussion of the regulatory issues that may affect our business, see “Item 1. Business — Regulatory Environment.” 39 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports less than 180 days before the end of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 that remain unresolved. 