ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Economic and market conditions in our customers’ industries and changes in our customers’ demand for outsourcing services may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our results of operations are affected directly by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. Economic slowdowns in some markets, particularly the United States, may cause reductions in spending by our clients, which may impede our ability to maintain existing business or develop new business and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues also depend on our clients’ success. If our clients or their programs are unsuccessful, the amount of business that they outsource, the prices that they are willing to pay for outsourcing or the revenues generated by our contracts may decline. A reduction in the amount of business we receive from our clients could result in stranded capacity and costs. Our revenues also depend, in large part, on the demand for outsourcing services. Outsourcing involves companies contracting with a third party, such as Convergys, to provide customer management services rather than performing such services in-house. There can be no assurance that the current demand for outsourcing will continue or grow, and organizations may elect to perform such services in-house. A significant reduction in the demand for outsourcing services could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The terms of our client contracts may limit our profitability or enable our clients to reduce or terminate services that we prefer to continue.Most of our client contracts do not have minimum volume requirements, and the profitability of each client contract or work order may fluctuate, sometimes significantly, throughout various stages of the program. Certain contracts have performance-related bonus or penalty provisions that require the client to pay us a bonus, or require us to issue the client a credit, based upon our meeting, or failing to meet, agreed-upon service levels and performance metrics. Moreover, although our objective is to sign multi-year agreements, our contracts generally allow the client to terminate the contract for convenience or reduce the amount of our services. There can be no assurance that our clients will not terminate their contracts before their scheduled expiration dates, that the volume of services for these programs will not be reduced, that we will be able to avoid penalties or earn performance bonuses for our services, or that we will be able to terminate unprofitable contracts without incurring significant liabilities. For these Convergys Corporation 2015 Annual Report 6reasons, there can be no assurance that our client contracts will be profitable for us or that we will be able to achieve or maintain any particular level of profitability through our client contracts.We depend on a limited number of clients for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of business from one or more of these clients could adversely affect our results of operations.Our three largest clients collectively represented 35.8% of our revenue in 2015. At any given time, we typically have multiple work orders or contracts with our largest customers. While we would not expect all work orders or contracts to terminate at the same time, the loss of one or more of the larger work orders or contracts with one of our largest clients could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition if the lost revenues are not replaced with profitable revenues from that client or other clients.Our business is substantially dependent on the global communications industry.Approximately 53% of our revenue in 2015 was received from customers operating in the global communications industry. At times, this industry has experienced significant fluctuations in growth rates and capital investment, and predicting future performance in this industry is challenging. General economic weakness or a slowdown in the communications industry could result in a loss of business and adversely affect our revenues and earnings. In addition, the communications industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years. If this consolidation continues, we may lose business from existing clients following a merger or acquisition, as a result of a change in our client’s outsourcing strategy or a reduction in the amount of business given to any one vendor by the client. The loss of business from one or more of our clients could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition if the lost revenues are not replaced with profitable revenues from other clients.The markets in which we operate include a large number of service providers and are highly competitive.We operate in highly competitive markets. Many of our competitors are expanding the services they offer in an attempt to gain additional business. In addition, niche providers or new entrants can enter markets by developing new systems or services that could impact our business. New competitors, alliances among competitors or mergers could result in significant market share gain by our competitors, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues. Some of our competitors may adopt more aggressive pricing policies or provide services that gain greater market acceptance than the services that we offer or develop. Large and well-capitalized competitors may be able to better respond to the need for technological changes faster, price their services more aggressively, compete for skilled professionals, finance acquisitions, fund internal growth and compete for market share. Our customers routinely negotiate for better pricing, and we may be required to lower our pricing or extend our payment terms to respond to increased competition and pricing pressures. If our competitors are able to compete more effectively or we are forced to reduce our pricing to respond to competitive pressures, our revenues and profit margin may decline.Our pursuit of acquisitions to grow our business presents certain risks to our business and operations. We have made, and in the future may make, acquisitions of or investments in companies, technologies or products in existing, related or new markets. Business combinations, acquisitions and investments, such as our 2014 acquisition of Stream, involve numerous risks that vary depending on the scale and nature of the transaction, including, among other things, that:•Management’s attention may be diverted from operational matters;•The acquired businesses may fail to meet or exceed expected returns;•Our integration of operations, systems, technologies, or employees may be ineffective or cost more than expected and impede our ability to realize anticipated synergies or other benefits or result in business interruptions and deterioration in our employee and customer relationships; •We may have difficulty attracting, retaining and motivating employees that are necessary to successfully operate the expanded business; •The announcement or consummation of a proposed transaction may have an adverse impact on relationships with third parties, including existing and potential clients; •The Company’s credit rating could be downgraded, which could adversely impact our access to and cost of capital; •We may use cash on hand or incur additional debt obligations to finance activities associated with a transaction, thereby reducing our available liquidity for general corporate or other purposes;•The acquired businesses may be located in regions where we have not historically conducted business and subject us to new operational risks, rules, regulations, employee expectations, customs and practices; Convergys Corporation 2015 Annual Report 7•The management of new, more diverse and more widespread operations, projects and people, and the provision of services to new industries may present challenges; •The acquired company’s internal financial controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and anti-corruption, human resource, and other policies or practices may be inadequate or ineffective;•The acquisition may expose our business to commitments or liabilities that were unknown or undisclosed by the seller or for which we underestimated our potential liability; •We may be unable or fail to appropriately scale critical resources and facilities for the business needs of the expanded enterprise; and•We may fail to realize anticipated growth opportunities from the acquisition or existing clients may reduce the volume of services they obtain from the expanded entity following the acquisition.The occurrence of any one or more of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. Cyberattacks or the improper disclosure or control of personal information could result in liability and harm our reputation, which could adversely affect our business.Our business is heavily dependent upon information technology networks and systems. Internal or external attacks on those networks and systems could disrupt the normal operations of our call centers and impede our ability to provide critical services to our clients, subjecting us to liability under our contracts and damaging our reputation.Moreover, our business involves the use, storage and transmission of information about our employees, our clients and customers of our clients. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to monetary damages, fines or criminal prosecution. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer data, whether through system failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, along with unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for clients, whether by our employees or third parties, could result in negative publicity, loss of clients, legal liability and damage to our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. While we take measures to protect the security of, and prevent unauthorized access to, our systems and personal and proprietary information, the security controls for our systems, as well as other security practices we follow, may not prevent improper access to, or disclosure of, personally identifiable or proprietary information. Furthermore, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. In particular, the European Court of Justice recently invalidated the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework regarding data privacy in connection with the transfer of personal data by U.S. companies from the European Economic Area. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation in the marketplace, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Interruption of our data centers and contact centers could have a materially adverse effect on our business.If we experience a temporary or permanent interruption in our operations at one or more of our data or contact centers, through natural disaster, casualty, operating malfunction, cyberattack, sabotage or other causes, we may be unable to provide the services we are contractually obligated to deliver. Failure to provide contracted services could result in contractual damages or clients’ termination or renegotiation of their contracts. Although we maintain disaster recovery and business continuity plans and precautions to protect our company and our clients from events that could interrupt our delivery of services, there is no guarantee that such plans and precautions will be effective or that any interruption will not be prolonged. Any prolonged interruption in our ability to provide services to our clients for which our plans and precautions fail to adequately protect us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition.We may be unable to effectively and efficiently deliver our services if the technology and network equipment that we rely upon is not appropriately maintained or upgraded.Our clients, and the services we provide to our clients, are highly dependent upon the persistent availability and uncompromised security of our information technology systems. We utilize and deploy internally-developed and third-party software solutions across various hardware environments. We operate an extensive internal voice and data network that links our global sites together in a multi-hub model that enables the rerouting of voice and data across the network, and we rely on multiple public communication channels for connectivity to our clients. Accordingly, maintenance of, and investment in, technology is critical to the success of our service delivery model.Convergys Corporation 2015 Annual Report 8Our systems are subject to the risk of an extended interruption or outage due to many factors, including system failures, acts of nature and cyberattacks from third parties. If the reliability of our technology or our network operations falls below required service levels, or a systemic fault affects the organization broadly, we may be unable to deliver contracted services to our clients. Non-performance could result in contractual performance penalties, damage to our reputation, and the loss of business from existing and potential clients. Any one or more of these consequences could adversely impact our revenue and cash flow.Defects or errors within software could adversely affect our business.The software we use to conduct our business is highly complex and may, from time to time, contain design defects, coding errors or other software errors that may be difficult to detect or correct. Design defects, coding errors or other software errors may delay software introductions or operations implementations, reduce the satisfaction level of our clients, impact our operational performance or prevent us from complying with our commercial agreements and may have a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, because we may use third-party software to support our clients, design defects, coding or other software errors and other potential problems may be outside of our control. Although our commercial agreements may contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential claims and liabilities, these provisions may not effectively protect us against claims in all cases and in all jurisdictions. As a result, problems with the software we use may result in financial or other damages to our clients for which we are held responsible or cause damage to our reputation, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our business performance and growth plans may be adversely affected if we are unable to effectively manage changes in the application and use of technology.The use of technology in our industry has and will continue to expand and change rapidly. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to develop and implement solutions that anticipate and keep pace with continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences. Our efforts to gain technological expertise and develop new technologies require us to incur significant expenses. If customer preferences for technology outpace our ability to provide such technologies, we could incur additional costs and our revenue profile and growth plans may be hindered. In addition, we may be unsuccessful at anticipating or responding to new developments on a timely and cost-effective basis, and our use of technology may differ from accepted practices in the marketplace. If we cannot offer new technologies as quickly or efficiently as our competitors, or if our competitors develop more cost-effective or client-preferred technologies, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and complete customer engagements, which could adversely affect our business. Client consolidations could result in a loss of clients and adversely affect our business.Many of our clients operate in industries that have experienced a significant level of consolidation. Our clients have been, and may continue to be, participants in consolidations in which they acquire additional businesses or are acquired themselves. Such consolidations may increase our dependence on a more limited number of clients or result in the termination of existing client contracts, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Natural events, war, terrorist attacks, other civil disturbances and epidemics could disrupt our operations or lead to economic weakness in the countries in which we operate, resulting in decreased revenues, earnings and cash flow.Natural events (such as floods and earthquakes), war, terrorist attacks and epidemics of contagious illnesses could disrupt our operations in the United States and abroad and could lead to economic weakness in the countries in which they occur. We have substantial operations in countries - most notably the Philippines - that have experienced severe natural events, such as earthquakes and floods, in the recent past. Such disruptions could cause service interruptions or reduce the quality level of the services that we provide, resulting in the payment of contractual penalties to our clients or our clients’ termination of our services, which could reduce our revenues, earnings and cash flow.Our revenue and earnings are affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.While most of our contracts are priced in U.S. dollars, we recognize a substantial amount of revenue under contracts that are denominated in Australian dollars, British pounds, Canadian dollars and euros. A significant increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to these currencies may have a material adverse impact on the value of those revenues when translated to U.S. dollars.Additionally, we serve an increasing number of our U.S.-based clients using contact center capacity outside of the United States, most notably in the Philippines, India, Latin America, Canada and locations throughout EMEA. Although our contracts with U.S.-Convergys Corporation 2015 Annual Report 9based clients are typically priced in U.S. dollars, a substantial portion of our costs to provide services under these contracts are denominated in Philippine pesos, Indian rupees, Canadian dollars, Colombian pesos, Egyptian pounds, Costa Rican colon, Honduran lempira, Nicaraguan cordoba and Dominican pesos. Additionally, we have certain client contracts that are priced in Australian dollars, for which a substantial portion of the costs to deliver services are in other currencies. Although we enter into hedging contracts in certain currencies to limit our potential foreign currency exposure, a significant decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar or, in certain cases, the Australian dollar, relative to these currencies could have a material adverse impact on our U.S. dollar operating expenses that are not fully offset by gains realized under our hedging contracts. The impact on our earnings will depend on the timing of our derivative instruments and the movement of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies.The cash we hold and our external foreign exchange contracts may be subject to counterparty credit risk. While we monitor the creditworthiness of the institutions holding our cash, a global economic crisis or credit crisis could weaken the creditworthiness of financial institutions. If one or more of the institutions holding our cash were to experience cash flow problems or were to become subject to insolvency proceedings, we may be unable to recover some or all of our deposited or invested cash. In addition, the counterparties to our hedge transactions are financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions and our hedging exposure is not secured by collateral. If one or more of these counterparties becomes insolvent and fails to perform their financial obligations under our hedge transactions, our hedging arrangements may not achieve our intended results and our results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected. We may be unable to repatriate to the United States cash held in foreign accounts without paying taxes.As of December 31, 2015, approximately 90% of our cash and short-term investments balance of $216.9 was held in accounts outside of the United States, most of which would be subject to additional taxes if repatriated to the United States. Changes in U.S. tax laws could also subject our cash and short-term investments to tax. Additionally, regulations and laws in the related jurisdictions could further restrict our ability to repatriate these balances. If we are unable to accurately predict our future tax liabilities or become subject to increased levels of taxation or our tax contingencies are unfavorably resolved, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Due to the global nature of our operations, we are subject to the complex and varying tax laws and rules of several foreign jurisdictions and have material tax-related contingent liabilities that are difficult to predict or quantify. In preparing our financial statements, we calculate our effective income tax rate based on current tax laws and regulations and our estimated taxable income within each of these jurisdictions. Officials in some of the jurisdictions in which we do business, including the United States, have proposed or announced that they are considering tax increases and other revenue raising laws and regulations. Any resulting changes in tax laws or regulations could increase our effective tax rate or impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices and reduce our net income and adversely affect our cash flows. We are also subject to tax audits, including with respect to transfer pricing, in the United States and other jurisdictions and our tax positions may be challenged by local tax authorities. While we believe that our current tax provisions are reasonable and appropriate, there can be no assurance that these items will be settled for the amounts accrued, that additional tax exposures will not be identified in the future or that additional tax reserves will not be necessary for any such exposures. Any increase in the amount of taxation incurred as a result of challenges to our tax filing positions could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our results of operations could be adversely affected by litigation and other commitments and contingencies.We face risks arising from various unasserted and asserted claims, including, but not limited to, commercial, tax and patent infringement claims. Unfavorable outcomes in pending or future litigation or the settlement of asserted claims could negatively affect us. In the ordinary course of business, we may make certain commitments, including representations, warranties and indemnities relating to current and past operations and divested businesses, and issue guarantees of third party obligations. The amounts of such commitments can only be estimated, and the actual amounts for which we are responsible may differ materially from our estimates.If we incur liability as a result of any current or future litigation, commitments or contingencies and such liability exceeds any amounts accrued, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.Convergys Corporation 2015 Annual Report 10We are susceptible to business and political risks from our international operations that could result in reduced revenues or earnings.We operate a global business and have facilities located throughout North and South America, EMEA and the Asia-Pacific region, including China. Conducting business internationally exposes us to certain risks including currency fluctuations, longer payment cycles, greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection, difficulties in complying with differing laws across many jurisdictions, changing legal and regulatory requirements and the interpretation and enforcement of such requirements, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, inflation, political instability, compliance with anti-bribery and anti-corruption regulations and potentially adverse tax consequences. As North American companies require additional offshore customer management outsourcing capacity, we expect to continue international expansion through start-up operations and acquisitions. In addition to the risks described above, expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional countries may divert management attention from our existing operations and require significant financial resources. If we are unable to manage the risks associated with our international operations and expanding such operations, our business could be adversely affected and our revenues and earnings could be reduced.Our business is subject to many regulatory requirements, and changes in current regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, or the adoption of new regulations could significantly increase our cost of doing business.Our business is subject to many laws and regulatory requirements in the United States and the foreign countries in which we operate, covering such matters as labor relations, health care requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, data privacy, consumer protection (including the method and timing of placing outbound telephone calls and the recording or monitoring of telephone calls), internal and disclosure control obligations, governmental affairs and immigration. Many of these regulations, including those related to data privacy, change frequently and sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. Violations of any laws and regulations to which we are subject, including failing to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements, could result in liability for damages, fines, criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and damage to our reputation, and restrictions on our ability to operate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In particular, because a substantial portion of our operating costs consist of labor costs, changes in governmental regulations (particularly in the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate) relating to wages, healthcare and healthcare reform and other benefits or employment taxes, or violations of such regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, in recent years, politicians have discussed and debated worldwide competitive sourcing, labor-related legislation and information-flow restrictions, particularly from the United States to offshore locations. If Federal or state legislation is adopted that restricts or discourages U.S. companies from outsourcing services outside of the United States, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.If we do not effectively manage our capacity, our results of operations could be adversely affected.Our ability to profit from the demand for outsourcing depends largely on how effectively we manage our contact center capacity. Although we periodically assess the expected long-term capacity utilization of our contact centers based, in part, on expected client demand for our services, we may be unsuccessful at achieving or maintaining optimal utilization of our contact center capacity. To create additional capacity necessary to accommodate new or expanded outsourcing projects, we may open new contact centers or expand existing contact centers that create idle capacity until we fully implement new or expanded programs for our clients. Furthermore, we may, if deemed necessary, consolidate, close or partially close underperforming contact centers to maintain or improve targeted utilization and margins. We also may experience short- or long-term fluctuations in client demand for services performed in one or more of our contact centers. A short-term decline in demand may result in less than optimal site utilization for a period of time, while a long-term decline in demand may result in site closures. As a result, we may not achieve or maintain targeted site utilization levels or site utilization levels may decrease from time to time, and our profitability may suffer as a result.If we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, our ability to execute our business plans could be impaired and our revenues could decrease.We employ approximately 130,000 employees worldwide. From time to time, we experience difficulties in hiring personnel with the desired levels of training or experience. Additionally, quality service depends on our ability to retain employees and control Convergys Corporation 2015 Annual Report 11personnel turnover. Any increase in our employee turnover rate could increase recruiting and training costs and could decrease operating effectiveness and productivity. We may be unable to continue to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to adequately staff new client projects. The inability or unwillingness of clients that represent a large portion of our accounts receivable balance to timely pay such balances could adversely affect our business. We often carry significant accounts receivable balances from a limited number of clients that generate a large portion of our revenues. A client may become unable or unwilling to timely pay its balance due to a general economic slowdown, economic weakness in its industry or the financial insolvency of its business. While we closely monitor our accounts receivable balances, a client’s financial inability or unwillingness, for any reason, to pay a large accounts receivable balance or many clients’ inability or unwillingness to pay accounts receivable balances that are large in the aggregate would adversely impact our income and cash flow. We may incur material restructuring charges in the future.We continually evaluate ways to reduce our operating expenses and adapt to changing industry and market conditions through new restructuring opportunities, including more effective utilization of our assets, workforce, and operating facilities. We have recorded restructuring charges in the past related to involuntary employee terminations, facility closures, and other restructuring activities, and we may incur material restructuring charges in the future. The risk that we incur material restructuring charges may be heightened during economic downturns or with expanded global operations.We may incur non-cash goodwill impairment charges in the future.As a result of past acquisitions, we carry a significant goodwill balance on our balance sheet. We test goodwill for impairment annually as of October 1 and at other times if events have occurred or circumstances exist that indicate the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable. There can be no assurance that we will not incur impairment charges in the future, particularly in the event of a prolonged economic slowdown. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Our controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud.Disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls and procedures can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. The design of controls must consider the benefits of controls relative to their costs, and controls cannot assure that judgments in decision-making will not be faulty or that breakdowns will not occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the unauthorized acts of one or more persons acting individually or by collusion. Furthermore, while controls are designed with the intent of providing reasonable assurance of the effectiveness of the controls, the design is based, in part, upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and such assumptions, while reasonable, may not take into account all potential future conditions. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations of a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be prevented or detected. Such misstatements could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and other disclosures, which could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common shares.The trading price of our common shares may be volatile. The trading price of our common shares has been and may be subject to substantial fluctuations over short and long periods of time. The trading prices of stocks in the outsourced customer contact management services industry have experienced volatility in recent years, which could affect the market price of our common shares even if we have strong financial results or performance. Various factors can impact the trading price of our common shares, including general economic conditions, changes or volatility in the financial markets, changing market conditions in the outsourced customer contact management services industry, quarterly variations in our financial results, the announcement of acquisitions or divestitures, strategic partnerships or new product offerings, and changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts. Many of these factors are outside of our control and there can be no assurance that the trading price of our common shares will not decline or fluctuate substantially in the future.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None.Convergys Corporation 2015 Annual Report 12 