ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are factors that may affect our actual operating results and could cause results to differ materially from those in any forward-looking statements. In addition to the other information contained in this document, you should carefully consider the following risk factors. We have a significant amount of debt. At December 31, 2005, we had total indebtedness of approximately $323.0 million. Subject to restrictions in our debt agreements, we had the ability to incur additional indebtedness of approximately $27.0 million under our Loan and Security Agreement revolver at December 31, 2005. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences, including: - Limiting cash flow available for general corporate purposes, including capital expenditures, because a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to servicing our debt; - Limiting our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions; - Making us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business; and - Limiting our flexibility in reacting to competitive and other changes in our industry. 16 Our current debt levels have subjected us to the risks described above. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, these risks could intensify. We may not be able to service our debt or refinance our debt when due. Our ability to pay or to refinance our indebtedness will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, business, and other factors beyond our control. At December 31, 2005, we have $157.5 million in 11 7/8 senior secured notes ("Secured Notes") that are due in October 2007. In addition, our Loan and Security Agreement expires in August 2007. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated revenues and cost-saving efforts will be realized on schedule or at all, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our Loan and Security Agreement or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our debt obligations, to pay our indebtedness at maturity or otherwise, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to further restructure or refinance our indebtedness, sell assets or seek additional equity capital. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accomplish those actions on satisfactory terms, if at all, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. Our ability to restructure or refinance will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of the convertible preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock, including the conversion price, dividend and liquidation preference adjustment provisions, could result in substantial dilution to holders of our common stock. The redemption price premiums, and board representation rights, could negatively impact our ability to access the equity markets in the future. Because a significant portion of our operations are currently conducted through our subsidiaries, our ability to pay our indebtedness is also dependent on the cash flows of our subsidiaries and the distribution of those cash flows to us, or upon loans or other payments of funds by our subsidiaries to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions or other payments to us will depend upon their operating results, applicable laws and any contractual restrictions contained in the agreements governing their indebtedness. If money generated by our subsidiaries is not available to us, our ability to repay our indebtedness may be adversely affected. The terms of our debt agreements and convertible preferred stock impose financial and operating restrictions. The indentures governing our Subordinated Notes and our Secured Notes, our Loan and Security Agreement and our convertible preferred stock contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in a variety of transactions, including incurring or guaranteeing additional indebtedness, making investments, creating liens on our assets, transferring or selling our assets, paying dividends or engaging in certain mergers, acquisitions or consolidations. The terms of our Loan and Security Agreement and indentures prohibit us from voluntarily prepaying certain indebtedness. A breach of any of the covenants or other provisions in our debt agreements could result in a default thereunder. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our debt agreements, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit, which would adversely affect our ability to fund our operations. An acceleration of amounts due under our Loan and Security Agreement would cause us to be in default under the indenture governing our Subordinated Notes and our Secured Notes, resulting in the acceleration of all outstanding amounts, and vice versa, given certain thresholds. If we are unable to repay any accelerated amounts under our debt agreements, the respective lenders/holders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the lenders/holders under our debt agreements accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay all of our indebtedness. 17 We are controlled by our Series C preferred stockholders whose interests may differ from the interests of the common stockholders. The holders of our convertible preferred stock have appointed a majority of the members of our Board of Directors. In addition, Mr. Yudkoff, co-founder of ABRY Partners, LLC and its current president and managing partner, is the chairman of our Board of Directors. Affiliates of ABRY Partners, LLC own the majority of the Company's convertible preferred stock, as well as $12.0 million of our Subordinated Notes. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of our Series C Preferred Stock holders could be in conflict with the interests of our common stockholders. As a result of their majority position, the Series C Preferred Stock holders have the power to appoint new management as well as the power to approve acquisitions or sales of our assets. If the Company is sold, we cannot assure the common stockholders that there will be enough proceeds from the sale to pay off all of our outstanding debt, the outstanding amount due to the Series C Preferred Stock holders, and have funds remaining for the common stockholders. If the Company had been sold on December 31, 2005, the outstanding loan and security balance of $10.2 million would be required to be paid, the bondholders would have been entitled to receive $315.9 million and the preferred stockholders, including the Series M Preferred, would have been entitled to receive $166.7 million before the common stockholders would have received any amounts for their common shares. In addition, the Series M Preferred holders would receive 8% of all amounts the common stockholder would receive. The amount the preferred stockholders would be entitled to receive could change significantly in the future under certain circumstances. Common stockholders are urged to read the terms of the preferred stock in their entirety. We have incurred substantial operating losses, we anticipate additional future losses and we must increase our revenues to become profitable. We incurred net losses of $8.4 million, $67.2 million, and $93.1 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We face an environment of uncertainty, and visibility for our business, particularly advertising sales, remains limited. We expect that we will continue to incur operating losses in the near term. In order to return to profitability, we must achieve substantial revenue growth. Revenue growth will depend on a recovery in marketing spending in traditional b-to-b media along with continued growth from new online media offerings. Although we have implemented a number of expense reduction and restructuring initiatives to more closely align our cost structure with the current business environment, expense reductions alone, without revenue growth, will not return us to profitability. We cannot assure you as to whether or when we will return to profitability or whether we will be able to sustain such profitability, if achieved. We depend on advertising revenues, which decrease during economic downturns and fluctuate from period to period. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, about 60.4%, 62.5%, and 65.6%, respectively, of our revenues came from advertising in our publications. Our advertising revenues fluctuate with general economic cycles, and any material decline in these revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Historically, advertising revenues have increased during economic recoveries and decreased during both general economic downturns and regional economic recessions. In a general economic downturn or a recession, advertisers reduce their advertising budgets, intensify their attempts to negotiate lower advertising rates and pay outstanding invoices more slowly. We have experienced some of these effects in 2003 and 2004. Our advertising revenues decreased by 1.6% from 2003 to 2004 and by 4.4% between 2004 and 2005. If a recovery in marketing spending in traditional b-to-b media does not take place, our results of operations may be adversely affected. 18 If we are not able to fully integrate and provide additional electronic media products, our revenues and long-term viability could be adversely affected. Business-to-business marketers in recent years have been directing increasing portions of their marketing budgets to electronic media products. Penton has benefited from this marketing trend, as evidenced with 17.9% and 23.4% ($2.8 million and $3.0 million) year-on-year increases in eMedia revenues in 2005 and 2004, respectively. At the same time, however, revenues for print publishing have declined by 5.1% and 1.6% ($7.2 million and $2.3 million) in 2005 and 2004, respectively. If we are not able to rapidly evolve our portfolio such that we can capture the market's enthusiasm and demand for innovative eMedia solutions and our publishing revenues continue to decline at a pace greater than the growth of our eMedia revenues, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. New product launches or acquired products may reduce our earnings or generate losses. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to continue offering new products and services that gain market acceptance by addressing the needs of specific audience groups within our targeted industries. Our efforts to introduce new or to integrate acquired products may not be successful or profitable. The process of internally researching, developing, launching, gaining acceptance and establishing profitability for a new product, or assimilating and marketing an acquired product, is both risky and costly. Costs related to the development of new products and services are expensed as incurred and, accordingly, our profitability from year to year may be adversely affected by the number, timing, and scope of new product launches. The profitability and success of our trade shows and conferences could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain desirable dates and locations. In 2005, about 20.9% of our revenues came from trade shows and conferences. We compete for desirable dates and venues for our trade shows and conferences. If this competition intensifies, we may be unable to schedule important engagements. If we are unable to obtain desirable dates and venues for events, the profitability and future success of these events could be adversely affected. Although we generally reserve venues and dates more than one year in advance, these reservations are not binding until we sign a contract with a facility operator. These contracts generally hold venues and dates for only one year. In addition, because trade shows and conferences are held on pre-scheduled dates at specific locations, the success of a particular trade show or conference depends upon events outside or our control, such as natural catastrophes, labor strikes and transportation shutdowns. A significant portion of our revenues and operating margins are generated from our Natural Products Expo East and Natural Products Expo West trade shows. A major decline in the performance of these shows would significantly reduce our revenues and operating income. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our Natural Products Expo East and Natural Products Expo West trade shows represented approximately 11.5% of our total revenue and approximately 28.1% of operating margin. We expect that these two shows will continue to represent a significant portion of our overall revenue and operating margin in the future. Therefore, a significant decline in the performance of one or both of the Natural Products shows could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A terrorist attack or the outbreak of disease could have a significant effect on our trade shows. The events of September 11, 2001 had a material adverse impact on us. The occurrence of another terrorist attack could again have a material adverse impact on us and our operations. In 2003, there was an outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome ("SARS"), which primarily had an adverse impact on our Asian trade show. If there were another outbreak of a disease (such as SARS or the 19 bird flu) that affected travel behavior, particularly in the U.S., it could have a material adverse impact on our trade show operations. Our trade shows, conferences, roadshows and publishing revenues vary based on the timing of our customers' product launches. Our trade shows, conferences, roadshows, and publishing revenues may fluctuate from period to period based on the spending patterns of our customers. Many of our large customers concentrate their advertising spending or participation in trade shows and roadshows around major product launches. Because we cannot always know or predict when our large customers intend to launch new products, it is difficult to anticipate any related fluctuations in these revenues. Competition may adversely affect our earnings and results of operations. We experience intense competition for our products and services. If we fail to compete effectively, our earnings and results of operations could be adversely affected. We compete for readers and advertisers in the publishing marketplace; for trade show and conference venues, exhibitors, sponsorships and show attendees; and for uniqueness of information content and product development speed for online products. Because our industry is relatively easy to enter, we anticipate that additional competitors, some of whom may have greater resources than we do, may enter these markets and intensify competition. The infringement or invalidation of our proprietary rights could have an adverse effect on our business. We regard our copyrights and trademarks, including our Internet domain names, service marks and similar intellectual property, as critical to our success. We rely on copyright and trademark laws in the United States and other jurisdictions and on confidentiality agreements with some of our employees and others to protect our proprietary rights. If any of these rights were infringed or invalidated, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, our business activities could infringe or be alleged to infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, who could assert infringement claims against us. If we are forced to defend against any such claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, then we may face costly litigation, diversion of technical and management personnel, or product and service delays. As a result of such a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us and we are unable to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements on a timely basis, our business could be adversely affected. We seek to register our trademarks in the United States and elsewhere. These registrations could be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. In addition, our confidentiality agreements with some of our employees or others may not provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary information, or if our proprietary information otherwise becomes known or is independently developed by competitors. Reliance on principal vendors could adversely affect our business. We rely on our principal vendors and their ability or willingness to sell products to us on favorable price and other terms. Many factors outside our control may harm these relationships and the ability or willingness of these vendors to sell these products to us on such terms. Currently, our principal vendors are paper suppliers, the United States Postal Service and printing suppliers. If any of our principal vendors discontinues or temporarily terminates its services and we are unable to find adequate alternatives, we may experience increased prices or interruptions and delays in services. These factors could adversely affect our business. 20 Increases in paper or postage costs could cause our expenses to increase and may adversely affect our business. Paper and postage are necessary expenses relating to our print products and magazine distribution. In 2005, these expenses accounted for approximately 9.3% and 14.0%, respectively, of our total editorial, production and circulation costs. Significant increases in paper prices or in postage prices may have an adverse effect on our business. We do not use forward contracts, and all of our paper supply vendor arrangements provide for price adjustments to reflect prevailing market prices. We use the United States Postal Service for domestic distribution of substantially all of our magazines and marketing materials. If we cannot pass significant increases in paper and postage costs through to our customers, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We depend on key personnel and the loss of any of those employees could impair our success. We benefit from the leadership and experience of our senior management team and other key employees, and we depend on their continuing services in order to successfully implement our business strategy. In addition, our success is dependent on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate high-quality personnel. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, they and other key personnel may not remain in our employment. The loss of a number of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not maintain "key person" life insurance with respect to our senior management team. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 