1A. Risk Factors The following risks and uncertainties are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements. The factors described below are not the only ones we face and additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Risks Related to Our Need for Additional Financing and Our Financial Results We will need additional capital in the future and, if it is unavailable, we will be forced to significantly curtail or cease operations. If it is not available on reasonable terms we will be forced to obtain funds by entering into financing agreements on unattractive terms. As of December 31, 2008, we had $142.2 million in cash, cash equivalents and investments, including $55.7 million of auction rate securities and related rights and $16.6 million in investments held by Symphony Icon. We anticipate that our existing capital resources, funds available under a credit line with an affiliate of UBS AG that we entered into in January 2009 in connection with a settlement of auction rate securities claims against UBS, and the cash and revenues we expect to derive from drug discovery and development collaborations and other collaborations and licenses will enable us to fund our currently planned operations for at least the next 12 months. Our currently planned operations for that time period consist of the completion of our ongoing clinical trials, the initiation and conduct of additional clinical trials and the continuation of our small molecule drug discovery and preclinical research efforts. However, we caution you that we may generate less cash and revenues or incur expenses more rapidly than we currently anticipate. Although difficult to accurately predict, the amount of our future capital requirements will be substantial and will depend on many factors, including: · our ability to obtain additional funds from collaborations and technology licenses; · the amount and timing of payments under such agreements; · the level and timing of our research and development expenditures; · the timing and progress of the clinical development of our drug candidates LX1031 and LX1032, and our election whether to exercise our exclusive option to acquire all of the equity of Symphony Icon, thereby allowing us to reacquire the programs; · future results from clinical trials of our drug candidates; · the cost and timing of regulatory approvals of drug candidates that we successfully develop; · market acceptance of products that we successfully develop and commercially launch; · the effect of competing programs and products, and of technological and market developments; · the filing, maintenance, prosecution, defense and enforcement of patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and · the cost and timing of establishing or contracting for sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. Our capital requirements will increase substantially as we advance our drug candidates into and through clinical development. Our capital requirements will also be affected by any expenditures we make in connection with license agreements and acquisitions of and investments in complementary products and technologies. For all of these reasons, our future capital requirements cannot easily be quantified. If our capital resources are insufficient to meet future capital requirements, we will have to raise additional funds to continue our currently planned operations. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our then-existing stockholders will experience dilution and the terms of any new equity securities may have preferences over our common stock. We cannot be certain that additional financing, whether debt or equity, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We may be unable to raise sufficient additional capital on reasonable terms; if so, we will be forced to significantly curtail or cease operations or obtain funds by entering into financing agreements on unattractive terms. 13 Table of Contents In June 2007, we entered into a securities purchase agreement with Invus, L.P., under which Invus made an initial investment of $205.4 million to purchase 50,824,986 shares of our common stock in August 2007 and has the right to require us to initiate up to two pro rata rights offerings to our stockholders, which would provide all stockholders with non-transferable rights to acquire shares of our common stock, in an aggregate amount of up to $344.5 million, less the proceeds of any “qualified offerings” that we may complete in the interim involving the sale of our common stock at prices above $4.50 per share. Invus may exercise its right to require us to conduct the first rights offering by giving us notice within a period of 90 days beginning on November 28, 2009 (which we refer to as the first rights offering trigger date), although we and Invus may agree to change the first rights offering trigger date to as early as August 28, 2009 with the approval of the members of our board of directors who are not affiliated with Invus. Invus may exercise its right to require us to conduct the second rights offering by giving us notice within a period of 90 days beginning on the date that is 12 months after Invus’ exercise of its right to require us to conduct the first rights offering or, if Invus does not exercise its right to require us to conduct the first rights offering, within a period of 90 days beginning on the first anniversary of the first rights offering trigger date. The initial investment and subsequent rights offerings, combined with any qualified offerings, were designed to achieve up to $550 million in proceeds to us. Invus would participate in each rights offering for up to its pro rata portion of the offering, and would commit to purchase the entire portion of the offering not subscribed for by other stockholders. Under the securities purchase agreement, until the later of the completion of the second rights offering or the expiration of the 90-day period following the second rights offering trigger date, we have agreed not to issue any of our common stock for a per share price of less than $4.50 without the prior written consent of Invus, except pursuant to an employee or director stock option, incentive compensation or similar plan or to persons involved in the pharmaceutical industry in connection with simultaneous strategic transactions involving such persons in the ordinary course. If we are not able to issue common stock at prices equal to or greater than $4.50 per share, due to market conditions or otherwise, this obligation will limit our ability to raise capital by issuing additional equity securities without the consent of Invus. In the event Invus declines to grant such consent and, in addition, elects not to exercise its right to require us to initiate the first rights offering, or elects to limit the size of the first rights offering, our ability during this period to satisfy our future capital requirements by issuing equity securities will be limited if we are unable to do so by issuing common stock at prices equal to or greater than $4.50 per share. We have a history of net losses, and we expect to continue to incur net losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred net losses since our inception, including net losses of $76.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, $58.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and $54.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $487.4 million. We are unsure when we will become profitable, if ever. The size of our net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, in our revenues and on the level of our expenses. We derive substantially all of our revenues from drug discovery and development collaborations and other collaborations and technology licenses, and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. Our future revenues from collaborations and technology licenses are uncertain because our existing agreements have fixed terms or relate to specific projects of limited duration and we depend, in part, on securing new agreements. Our ability to secure future revenue-generating agreements will depend upon our ability to address the needs of our potential future collaborators, granting agencies and licensees, and to negotiate agreements that we believe are in our long-term best interests. We may determine that our interests are better served by retaining rights to our discoveries and advancing our therapeutic programs to a later stage, which could limit our near-term revenues. Given the early-stage nature of our operations, we do not currently derive any revenues from sales of pharmaceutical products. A large portion of our expenses is fixed, including expenses related to facilities, equipment and personnel. In addition, we expect to spend significant amounts to fund our research and development activities, including the conduct of clinical trials and the advancement of additional potential therapeutics into clinical development. As a result, we expect that our operating expenses will continue to increase significantly as our drug programs progress into and through human clinical trials and, consequently, we will need to generate significant additional revenues to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. 14 Table of Contents We have licensed the intellectual property, including commercialization rights, to our drug candidates LX1031 and LX1032 to Symphony Icon and will not receive any future royalties or revenues with respect to these drug candidates unless we exercise our option to purchase Symphony Icon. Our option to purchase all of the equity of Symphony Icon, thereby allowing us to reacquire these drug candidates, is exercisable by us at any time, in our sole discretion, until June 15, 2011 at an exercise price of (a) $72 million, if the purchase option is exercised before June 15, 2009, (b) $81 million, if the purchase option is exercised on or after the June 15, 2009 and before June 15, 2010 and (c) $90 million, if the purchase option is exercised on or after June 15, 2010 and before June 15, 2011. The purchase option exercise price may be paid in cash or a combination of cash and common stock, at our sole discretion, provided that the common stock portion may not exceed 40% of the purchase option exercise price. If we elect to exercise the purchase option, we will be required to make a substantial cash payment or to make a lesser but still substantial cash payment and issue a substantial number of shares of our common stock, which may in turn require us to enter into a financing arrangement or license arrangement with one or more third parties. The amount of any such cash payment would reduce our capital resources. Payment in shares of our common stock could result in dilution to our stockholders at that time. Other financing or licensing alternatives may be expensive or impossible to obtain. If we do not exercise the purchase option prior to its expiration, our rights to purchase all of the equity in Symphony Icon and to reacquire LX1031 and LX1032 will terminate. We may not have the financial resources to exercise the option, which may result in our loss of these rights. Additionally, we may not have sufficient clinical data in order to determine whether we should exercise the option. At December 31, 2008, we held $57.0 million (par value), with an estimated fair value of $43.6 million, of auction rate securities for which auctions have failed and, as a result, we may not be able to access at least a portion of these funds without a loss of principal. At December 31, 2008, we held $57.0 million (par value), with an estimated fair value of $43.6 million, of AAA rated investments with an auction interest rate reset feature, known as auction rate securities. Until February 2008, the market for our auction rate securities was highly liquid. Starting in February 2008, a substantial number of auctions “failed,” meaning that there was not enough demand to sell all of the securities that holders desired to sell at auction. In November 2008, we accepted an offer from UBS AG, the investment bank that sold us our auction rate securities, providing us with certain rights related to our auction rate securities. The rights permit us to require UBS to purchase our auction rate securities from us at par value during the period from June 30, 2010 through July 2, 2012. Conversely, UBS has the right, in its discretion, to purchase or sell the securities at any time by paying us the par value of the securities. In connection with our acceptance of UBS’s offer, in January 2009, we entered into a credit line agreement with UBS Bank USA that provides up to an aggregate amount of $35.9 million in the form of an uncommitted, demand, revolving line of credit. The credit line is secured only by the auction rate securities and advances under the credit line will be made on a “no net cost” basis, meaning that the interest paid by us on advances will not exceed the interest or dividends paid to us by the issuer of the auction rate securities. Although we expect to access the maximum amount permitted under the credit line and exercise the rights and sell our auction rate securities to UBS on June 30, 2010, the earliest date allowable under the rights, we will have no means to access $21.1 million (par value) invested in auction rate securities before such date without a loss of principal. Further, UBS and its affiliates may not be able to maintain the financial resources necessary to perform its obligations under the rights or credit line. As a result, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to access the funds invested in auction rate securities without a loss of principal, unless a future auction on these investments is successful or the issuer redeems the securities. Our operating results have been and likely will continue to fluctuate, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Our operating results and, in particular, our ability to generate additional revenues are dependent on many factors, including: · our ability to establish new collaborations and technology licenses, and the timing of such arrangements; · the expiration or other termination of collaborations, which may not be renewed or replaced; 15 Table of Contents · the success rate of our discovery and development efforts leading to opportunities for new collaborations and licenses, as well as milestone payments and royalties; · the timing and willingness of our collaborators to commercialize pharmaceutical products that would result in milestone payments and royalties; and · general and industry-specific economic conditions, which may affect our and our collaborators’ research and development expenditures. Because of these and other factors, including the risks and uncertainties described in this section, our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. Due to the likelihood of fluctuations in our revenues and expenses, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Risks Related to Discovery and Development of Our Drug Candidates We are an early-stage company, and have not proven our ability to successfully develop and commercialize drug candidates based on our drug target discoveries. Our business strategy of using our technology platform and, specifically, the discovery of the functions of genes using knockout mice to select promising drug targets and developing and commercializing drug candidates based on our target discoveries, in significant part through collaborations, is unproven. Our success will depend upon our ability to successfully generate, select and develop drug candidates for targets we consider to have pharmaceutical value, whether on our own or through collaborations, and to select an appropriate commercialization strategy for each potential therapeutic we choose to pursue. We have not proven our ability to develop or commercialize drug candidates based on our drug target discoveries. The generation and selection of potential drug candidates for a target is a difficult, expensive and time-consuming process that is subject to substantial technical and scientific challenges and uncertainties, without any assurance of ever identifying a drug candidate warranting clinical testing. The process involves the optimization of a wide variety of variables, including among many other things potency against the target, selectivity for the intended target relative to other proteins, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion characteristics, activity in animal models of disease and the results of other preclinical research, and feasibility and cost of manufacture, each of which may affect one or more of the others in ways that conflict with the desired profile. Furthermore, we do not know that any pharmaceutical products based on our drug target discoveries can be successfully developed or commercialized. Our strategy is focused principally on the discovery and development of drug candidates for targets that have not been clinically validated in humans by drugs or drug candidates generated by others. As a result, the drug candidates we develop are subject to uncertainties as to the effects of modulating the human drug target as well as to those relating to the characteristics and activity of the particular compound. In addition, we may experience unforeseen technical complications in the processes we use to identify potential drug targets or discover and develop potential drug candidates. These complications could materially delay or limit the use of our resources, substantially increase the anticipated cost of conducting our drug target or drug candidate discovery efforts or prevent us from implementing our processes at appropriate quality and throughput levels. Clinical testing of our drug candidates in humans is an inherently risky and time-consuming process that may fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy, which could result in the delay, limitation or prevention of regulatory approval. In order to obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any products that we may develop, we will be required to complete extensive clinical trials in humans to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates. We or our collaborators may not be able to obtain authority from the FDA, or other equivalent foreign regulatory agencies to initiate or complete any clinical trials. In addition, we have limited internal resources for making regulatory filings and dealing with regulatory authorities. Clinical trials are inherently risky and the results from preclinical testing of a drug candidate that is under development may not be predictive of results that will be obtained in human clinical trials. In addition, the results of early human clinical trials may not be predictive of results that will be obtained in larger-scale, advanced stage clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving positive results in earlier trials. Negative or inconclusive results from a preclinical study or a clinical trial could cause us, one of our collaborators or the FDA to terminate a preclinical study or clinical trial or require that we repeat it. Furthermore, we, one of our collaborators or a regulatory agency with jurisdiction over the trials may suspend clinical trials at any time if the subjects or patients participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. 16 Table of Contents Any preclinical or clinical test may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA or institutional review boards at the medical institutions and healthcare facilities where we sponsor clinical trials may suspend any trial indefinitely if they find deficiencies in the conduct of these trials. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s current Good Clinical Practices. The FDA and these institutional review boards have authority to oversee our clinical trials, and the FDA may require large numbers of test subjects. In addition, we must manufacture, or contract for the manufacture of, the drug candidates that we use in our clinical trials under the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices. The rate of completion of clinical trials is dependent, in part, upon the rate of enrollment of patients. Patient accrual is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, the nature of the study, the existence of competitive clinical trials and the availability of alternative treatments. Delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs and prolonged clinical development, which in turn could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or potential products. We or our collaborators may not be able to successfully complete any clinical trial of a potential product within any specified time period. In some cases, we or our collaborators may not be able to complete the trial at all. Moreover, clinical trials may not show our potential products to be both safe and effective. Thus, the FDA and other regulatory authorities may not approve any products that we develop for any indication or may limit the approved indications or impose other conditions. Risks Related to Our Relationships with Third Parties Disagreements with Symphony Icon regarding the development of our drug candidates LX1031 or LX1032 could negatively affect or delay their development. While we are the party primarily responsible for development of our drug candidates LX1031 and LX1032 in accordance with a specified development plan and related development budget, our development activities are supervised by Symphony Icon’s development committee, which is comprised of an equal number of representatives from us and Symphony Icon. Any disagreements between us and Symphony Icon regarding a development decision may cause delays in the development and commercialization of those drug candidates or lead to development decisions that do not reflect our interests. Any such delays or development decisions not in our interest could negatively affect the value of LX1031 or LX1032. We are dependent in many ways upon our collaborations with major pharmaceutical companies. If we are unable to achieve milestones under those collaborations or if our collaborators’ efforts fail to yield pharmaceutical products on a timely basis, our opportunities to generate revenues and earn royalties will be reduced. We have derived a substantial majority of our revenues to date from collaborative drug discovery and development alliances with a limited number of major pharmaceutical companies. Revenues from our drug discovery and development alliances depend upon continuation of the collaborations, the achievement of milestones and payment of royalties we earn from any future products developed under the collaborations. If our relationship terminates with any of our collaborators, our reputation in the business and scientific community may suffer and revenues will be negatively impacted to the extent such losses are not offset by additional collaboration agreements. If we are unable to achieve milestones or our collaborators are unable to successfully develop products from which royalties are payable, we will not earn the revenues contemplated by those drug discovery and development collaborations. In addition, some of our alliances are exclusive and preclude us from entering into additional collaborative arrangements with other parties in the field of exclusivity. We have limited or no control over the resources that any collaborator may devote to the development and commercialization of products under our alliances. Any of our present or future collaborators may not perform their obligations as expected. These collaborators may breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct product discovery, development or commercialization activities successfully or in a timely manner. Further, our collaborators may elect not to develop pharmaceutical products arising out of our collaborative arrangements or may not devote sufficient resources to the development, approval, manufacture, marketing or sale of these products. If any of these events occurs, we may not be able to develop or commercialize potential pharmaceutical products. 17 Table of Contents Conflicts with our collaborators could jeopardize the success of our collaborative agreements and harm our product development efforts. We may pursue opportunities in specific disease and therapeutic modality fields that could result in conflicts with our collaborators, if any of our collaborators takes the position that our internal activities overlap with those activities that are exclusive to our collaboration. Moreover, disagreements could arise with our collaborators over rights to our intellectual property or our rights to share in any of the future revenues of compounds or therapeutic approaches developed by our collaborators. Any conflict with or among our collaborators could result in the termination of our collaborative agreements, delay collaborative research or development activities, impair our ability to renew or obtain future collaborative agreements or lead to costly and time consuming litigation. Conflicts with our collaborators could also have a negative impact on our relationship with existing collaborators, materially impairing our business and revenues. Some of our collaborators are also potential competitors or may become competitors in the future. Our collaborators could develop competing products, preclude us from entering into collaborations with their competitors or terminate their agreements with us prematurely. Any of these events could harm our product development efforts. We lack the capability to manufacture materials for preclinical studies, clinical trials or commercial sales and rely on third parties to manufacture our drug candidates, which may harm or delay our product development and commercialization efforts. We currently do not have the manufacturing capabilities or experience necessary to produce materials for preclinical studies, clinical trials or commercial sales and intend in the future to continue to rely on collaborators and third-party contractors to produce such materials. We will rely on selected manufacturers to deliver materials on a timely basis and to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including the current Good Manufacturing Practices of the FDA, which relate to manufacturing and quality control activities. These manufacturers may not be able to produce material on a timely basis or manufacture material at the quality level or in the quantity required to meet our development timelines and applicable regulatory requirements. In addition, there are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices and that are capable of producing such materials, and we may experience difficulty finding manufacturers with adequate capacity for our needs. If we are unable to contract for the production of sufficient quantity and quality of materials on acceptable terms, our product development and commercialization efforts may be delayed. Moreover, noncompliance with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, civil and criminal penalties, product recalls or seizures, suspension of production, failure to obtain marketing approval and withdrawal, suspension or revocation of marketing approvals. We rely on third parties to carry out drug development activities. We rely on clinical research organizations and other third party contractors to carry out many of our drug development activities, including the performance of preclinical laboratory and animal tests under the FDA’s current Good Laboratory Practices regulations and the conduct of clinical trials of our drug candidates in accordance with protocols we establish. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, our drug development activities may be delayed, suspended or terminated. Such a failure by these third parties could significantly impair our ability to develop and commercialize the affected drug candidates. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of Our Drug Candidates Our drug candidates are subject to a lengthy and uncertain regulatory process that may not result in the necessary regulatory approvals, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize products. Our drug candidates, as well as the activities associated with their research, development and commercialization, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for a drug candidate would prevent us from commercializing that drug candidate. We have not received regulatory approval to market any of our drug candidates in any jurisdiction and have only limited experience in preparing and filing the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, and often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the drug candidates involved. Before a new drug application can be filed with the FDA, the drug candidate must undergo extensive clinical trials, which can take many years and may require substantial expenditures. Any clinical trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA. For example, the FDA could determine that the design of a clinical trial is inadequate to produce reliable results. The regulatory process also requires preclinical testing, and data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon changes in regulatory policy for product approval during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. Changes in regulatory approval policy, regulations or statutes or the process for regulatory review during the development or approval periods of our drug candidates may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. Even if the FDA or a comparable authority in another country approves a drug candidate, the approval may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses, conditions for use, labeling, advertising, promotion, marketing and/or production of such product and may impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies, including additional research and development and clinical trials. These agencies also may impose various civil or criminal sanctions for failure to comply with regulatory requirements, including withdrawal of product approval. 18 Table of Contents If our potential products receive regulatory approval, we or our collaborators will remain subject to extensive and rigorous ongoing regulation. If we or our collaborators obtain initial regulatory approvals from the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for any products that we may develop, we or our collaborators will be subject to extensive and rigorous ongoing domestic and foreign government regulation of, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, labeling, promotion, advertising, distribution and marketing of our products and drug candidates. The failure to comply with these requirements or the identification of safety problems during commercial marketing could lead to the need for product marketing restrictions, product withdrawal or recall or other voluntary or regulatory action, which could delay further marketing until the product is brought into compliance. The failure to comply with these requirements may also subject us or our collaborators to stringent penalties. Risks Related to Commercialization of Products The commercial success of any products that we may develop will depend upon the degree of market acceptance of our products among physicians, patients, health care payors, private health insurers and the medical community. Our ability to commercialize any products that we may develop will be highly dependent upon the extent to which these products gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers, including managed care organizations and group purchasing organizations, and the medical community. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate adequate product revenues, if at all, and we may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of our drug candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend upon a number of factors, including: · the effectiveness, or perceived effectiveness, of our products in comparison to competing products; · the existence of any significant side effects, as well as their severity in comparison to any competing products; · potential advantages over alternative treatments; · the ability to offer our products for sale at competitive prices; · relative convenience and ease of administration; · the strength of marketing and distribution support; and · sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our drug candidates, we may be unable to generate product revenues. We have no experience as a company in the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products and do not currently have a sales and marketing organization. Developing a sales and marketing force would be expensive and time-consuming, could delay any product launch, and we may never be able to develop this capacity. To the extent that we enter into arrangements with third parties to provide sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we market and sell any products that we develop ourselves. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate product revenues. 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for any products that we may develop, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. Our ability to commercialize any products that we may develop will be highly dependent on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for our products will be available from third-party payors, including governmental payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private health insurers, including managed care organizations and group purchasing organizations. Many patients will not be capable of paying themselves for some or all of the products that we may develop and will rely on third-party payors to pay for, or subsidize, their medical needs. If third-party payors do not provide coverage or reimbursement for any products that we may develop, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. In addition, even if third-party payors provide some coverage or reimbursement for our products, the availability of such coverage or reimbursement for prescription drugs under private health insurance and managed care plans often varies based on the type of contract or plan purchased. A primary trend in the United States health care industry is toward cost containment. Current and future prescription drug benefit programs, including any programs that may be proposed as a result of the change in the presidential administration in January 2009, may have the effect of reducing the prices that we are able to charge for products we develop and sell through plans under the programs. These prescription drug programs may also cause third-party payors other than the federal government, including the states under the Medicaid program, to discontinue coverage for products we develop or to lower the price that they will pay. Proponents of drug reimportation may attempt to pass legislation, which would allow direct reimportation under certain circumstances. If legislation or regulations were passed allowing the reimportation of drugs, it could decrease the price we receive for any products that we may develop, thereby negatively affecting our revenues and prospects for profitability. In addition, in some foreign countries, particularly the countries in the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, price negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement and/or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost effectiveness of our drug candidates or products to other available therapies. The conduct of such a clinical trial could be expensive and result in delays in the commercialization of our drug candidates. Third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, and many third-party payors limit reimbursement for newly approved health care products. In particular, third-party payors may limit the indications for which they will reimburse patients who use any products that we may develop. Cost-control initiatives could decrease the price we might establish for products that we may develop, which would result in lower product revenues to us. Our competitors may develop products and technologies that make our products and technologies obsolete. The biotechnology industry is highly fragmented and is characterized by rapid technological change. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic research institutions, clinical reference laboratories and government agencies that are pursuing research activities similar to ours. In addition, significant delays in the development of our drug candidates could allow our competitors to bring products to market before us, which would impair our ability to commercialize our drug candidates. Our future success will depend upon our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to technological advances. Any products that are developed through our technologies will compete in highly competitive markets. Further, our competitors may be more effective at using their technologies to develop commercial products. Many of the organizations competing with us have greater capital resources, larger research and development staff and facilities, more experience in obtaining regulatory approvals and more extensive product manufacturing and marketing capabilities. As a result, our competitors may be able to more easily develop technologies and products that would render our technologies and products, and those of our collaborators, obsolete and noncompetitive. In addition, there may be drug candidates of which we are not aware at an earlier stage of development that may compete with our drug candidates. We may not be able to manufacture our drug candidates in commercial quantities, which would prevent us from commercializing our drug candidates. To date, our drug candidates have been manufactured in small quantities for preclinical and clinical trials. If any of these drug candidates are approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for commercial sale, we will need to manufacture them in larger quantities. We may not be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity, whether in collaboration with third-party manufacturers or on our own, for any of our drug candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a drug candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that drug candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply. Our drug candidates require precise, high-quality manufacturing. The failure to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, third parties may be able to use our technology, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of the intellectual property related to our technologies and products. The patent positions of biotechnology companies, including our patent position, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We will be able to protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We will continue to apply for patents covering our technologies and products as and when we deem appropriate. Pending patent applications do not provide protection against competitors because they are not enforceable until they issue as patents. Further, the disclosures contained in our current and future patent applications may not be sufficient to meet statutory requirements for patentability. Once issued, patents still may not provide commercially meaningful protection. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patents. If anyone infringes upon our or our collaborators’ patent rights, enforcing these rights may be difficult, costly and time-consuming and, as a result, it may not be cost-effective or otherwise expedient to pursue litigation to enforce those patent rights. In addition, our patents may be challenged or invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages, if, for example, others were the first to invent or to file patent applications for these inventions. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that cover the production, manufacture, commercialization or use of our technologies, drug targets or drug candidates. If any such patents are issued to other entities, we will be unable to obtain patent protection for the same or similar discoveries that we make. Moreover, we may be blocked from using or developing some of our existing or proposed technologies and products, or may be required to obtain a license that may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. Further, others may discover uses for our technologies or products other than those covered in our issued or pending patents, and these other uses may be separately patentable. Even if we have a patent claim on a particular technology or product, the holder of a patent covering the use of that technology or product could exclude us from selling a product that is based on the same use of that product. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties (for example, the patent owner has failed to “work” the invention in that country or the third party has patented improvements). In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. Compulsory licensing of life-saving drugs is also becoming increasingly popular in developing countries either through direct legislation or international initiatives. Such compulsory licenses could be extended to include some of our drug candidates, which could limit our potential revenue opportunities. Moreover, the legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patent and other intellectual property protection, which makes it difficult to stop infringement. We rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information and trade secrets, but these measures may not provide adequate protection. While we seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants, we cannot assure you that our proprietary information will not be disclosed, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or may otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. 21 Table of Contents We may be involved in patent litigation and other disputes regarding intellectual property rights and may require licenses from third parties for our discovery and development and planned commercialization activities. We may not prevail in any such litigation or other dispute or be able to obtain required licenses. Our discovery and development efforts as well as our potential products and those of our collaborators may give rise to claims that they infringe the patents of others. We are aware that other companies and institutions have conducted research on many of the same targets that we have identified and have filed patent applications potentially covering many of the genes and encoded drug targets that are the focus of our drug discovery programs. In some cases, patents have issued from these applications. In addition, many companies and institutions have well-established patent portfolios directed to common techniques, methods and means of developing, producing and manufacturing pharmaceutical products. Other companies or institutions could bring legal actions against us or our collaborators for damages or to stop us or our collaborators from engaging in certain discovery or development activities or from manufacturing and marketing any resulting therapeutic products. If any of these actions are successful, in addition to our potential liability for damages, these entities would likely require us or our collaborators to obtain a license in order to continue engaging in the infringing activities or to manufacture or market the resulting therapeutic products or may force us to terminate such activities or manufacturing and marketing efforts. We may need to pursue litigation against others to enforce our patents and intellectual property rights and may be the subject of litigation brought by third parties to enforce their patent and intellectual property rights. In addition, we may become involved in litigation based on intellectual property indemnification undertakings that we have given to certain of our collaborators. Patent litigation is expensive and requires substantial amounts of management attention. The eventual outcome of any such litigation is uncertain and involves substantial risks. We believe that there will continue to be significant litigation in our industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We have expended and many of our competitors have expended and are continuing to expend significant amounts of time, money and management resources on intellectual property litigation. If we become involved in future intellectual property litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our resources and could negatively affect our results of operations. We use intellectual property that we license from third parties. If we do not comply with these licenses, we could lose our rights under them. We rely, in part, on licenses to use certain technologies that are important to our business, such as certain gene targeting technology licensed from GenPharm International, Inc. We do not own the patents that underlie these licenses. Most of these licenses, however, including those licensed from GenPharm, have terms that extend for the life of the licensed patents. Our rights to use these technologies and practice the inventions claimed in the licensed patents are subject to our abiding by the terms of those licenses and the licensors not terminating them. We believe we are currently in material compliance with all requirements of these licenses. In many cases, we do not control the filing, prosecution or maintenance of the patent rights to which we hold licenses and rely upon our licensors to prosecute infringement of those rights. The scope of our rights under our licenses may be subject to dispute by our licensors or third parties. We have not sought patent protection outside of the United States for some of our inventions, and some of our licensed patents only provide coverage in the United States. As a result, our international competitors could be granted foreign patent protection with respect to our discoveries. We have decided not to pursue patent protection with respect to some of our inventions outside the United States, both because we do not believe it is cost-effective and because of confidentiality concerns. Accordingly, our international competitors could develop, and receive foreign patent protection for, genes or gene sequences, uses of those genes or gene sequences, gene products and drug targets, assays for identifying potential therapeutic products, potential therapeutic products and methods of treatment for which we are seeking United States patent protection. In addition, most of our gene trapping patents and our licensed gene targeting patents cover only the United States and do not apply to discovery activities conducted outside of the United States or, in some circumstances, to importing into the United States products developed using this technology. 22 Table of Contents We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we, our employees or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees and independent contractors were previously employed at universities, other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that these employees, independent contractors or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying money claims, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel and/or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain drug candidates, which could severely harm our business. Risks Related to Employees, Growth and Facilities Operations The loss of key personnel or the inability to attract and retain additional personnel could impair our ability to expand our operations. We are highly dependent upon the principal members of our management and scientific staff, the loss of whose services might adversely impact the achievement of our objectives and the continuation of existing collaborations. Recruiting and retaining qualified clinical and scientific personnel will be critical to support activities related to advancing our clinical and preclinical development programs, and supporting our collaborative arrangements and our internal proprietary research and development efforts. Competition is intense for experienced clinical personnel, in particular, and we may be unable to retain or recruit clinical personnel with the expertise or experience necessary to allow us to pursue collaborations, develop our products and core technologies or expand our operations to the extent otherwise possible. Further, all of our employees are employed “at will” and, therefore, may leave our employment at any time. Our collaborations with outside scientists may be subject to restriction and change. We work with scientific and clinical advisors and collaborators at academic and other institutions that assist us in our research and development efforts. These advisors and collaborators are not our employees and may have other commitments that limit their availability to us. Although these advisors and collaborators generally agree not to do competing work, if a conflict of interest between their work for us and their work for another entity arises, we may lose their services. In such a circumstance, we may lose work performed by them, and our development efforts with respect to the matters on which they were working maybe significantly delayed or otherwise adversely affected. In addition, although our advisors and collaborators sign agreements not to disclose our confidential information, it is possible that valuable proprietary knowledge may become publicly known through them. Security breaches may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Our network security and data recovery measures may not be adequate to protect against computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. The misappropriation, theft, sabotage or any other type of security breach with respect to any of our proprietary and confidential information that is electronically stored, including research or clinical data, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, any break-in or trespass of our facilities that results in the misappropriation, theft, sabotage or any other type of security breach with respect to our proprietary and confidential information, including research or clinical data, or that results in damage to our research and development equipment and assets could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Because most of our operations are located at a single facility, the occurrence of a disaster could significantly disrupt our business. Most of our operations are conducted at our facility in The Woodlands, Texas. While we have developed redundant and emergency backup systems to protect our resources and the facilities in which they are stored, they may be insufficient in the event of a severe fire, flood, hurricane, tornado, mechanical failure or similar disaster. If such a disaster significantly damages or destroys the facility in which our resources are maintained, our business could be disrupted until we could regenerate the affected resources. Our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us in the event of a major interruption due to such a disaster. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to Environmental and Product Liability We use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and radioactive and biological materials. Our operations produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. We may face liability for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and such liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts. In addition, our collaborators may use hazardous materials in connection with our collaborative efforts. In the event of a lawsuit or investigation, we could be held responsible for any injury caused to persons or property by exposure to, or release of, these hazardous materials used by these parties. Further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations. We may be sued for product liability. We or our collaborators may be held liable if any product that we or our collaborators develop, or any product that is made with the use or incorporation of any of our technologies, causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Although we currently have and intend to maintain product liability insurance, this insurance may become prohibitively expensive or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. Our inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of products developed by us or our collaborators. If we are sued for any injury caused by our or our collaborators’ products, our liability could exceed our total assets. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may be extremely volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile, and we believe the trading price of our common stock will remain highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to factors such as the following: · adverse results or delays in clinical trials; · announcement of FDA approval or non-approval, or delays in the FDA review process, of our or our collaborators’ product candidates or those of our competitors or actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our, our collaborators’ or our competitors’ clinical trials; · the announcement of new products by us or our competitors; · quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; · conflicts or litigation with our collaborators; · litigation, including intellectual property infringement and product liability lawsuits, involving us; · failure to achieve operating results projected by securities analysts; · changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; · financing transactions; · developments in the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industry; · sales of large blocks of our common stock or sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; · departures of key personnel or board members; 24 Table of Contents · developments concerning current or future collaborations; · FDA or international regulatory actions; · third-party reimbursement policies; · acquisitions of other companies or technologies; · disposition of any of our subsidiaries, technologies or compounds; and · general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. These factors, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business. We may engage in future acquisitions, which may be expensive and time consuming and from which we may not realize anticipated benefits. We may acquire additional businesses, technologies and products if we determine that these businesses, technologies and products complement our existing technology or otherwise serve our strategic goals. If we do undertake any transactions of this sort, the process of integrating an acquired business, technology or product may result in operating difficulties and expenditures and may not be achieved in a timely and non-disruptive manner, if at all, and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. If we fail to integrate acquired businesses, technologies or products effectively or if key employees of an acquired business leave, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition would be jeopardized. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, such as increased revenues and earnings or enhanced business synergies. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, which could materially impair our results of operations and financial condition. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued upon the exercise of options and warrants) in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. For example, following an acquisition, a significant number of shares of our common stock held by new stockholders may become freely tradable or holders of registration rights could cause us to register their shares for resale. Sales of these shares of common stock held by existing stockholders could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Invus’ ownership of our common stock and its other rights under the stockholders’ agreement we entered into in connection with Invus’ $205.4 million initial investment in our common stock provide Invus with substantial influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, as well as other corporate matters. Under the stockholders’ agreement we entered into in connection with Invus’ $205.4 million initial investment in our common stock, Invus currently has the right to designate the greater of three members or 30% (or the percentage of all the outstanding shares of our common stock owned by Invus and its affiliates, if less than 30%) of all members of our board of directors, rounded up to the nearest whole number of directors, pursuant to which Invus has designated Raymond Debbane, president and chief executive officer of The Invus Group, LLC, an affiliate of Invus, and Philippe J. Amouyal and Christopher J. Sobecki, each of whom are managing directors of The Invus Group, LLC. In the event that the number of shares of our common stock owned by Invus and its affiliates ever exceeds 50% of the total number of shares of our common stock then outstanding (not counting for such purpose any shares acquired by Invus from third parties in excess of 40% (or, if higher, its then pro rata amount) of the total number of outstanding shares of common stock, as permitted by the standstill provisions of the stockholders’ agreement), from and after that time, Invus will have the right to designate a number of directors equal to the percentage of all the outstanding shares of our common stock owned by Invus and its affiliates (not counting for such purpose any shares acquired by Invus from third parties in excess of 40% (or, if higher, its then pro rata amount) of the total number of outstanding shares of common stock, as permitted by the standstill provisions of the stockholders’ agreement), rounded up to the nearest whole number of directors. The directors appointed by Invus have proportionate representation on the compensation committee and corporate governance committee of our board of directors. 25 Table of Contents Invus’ rights with respect to the designation of members of our board of directors and its compensation and corporate governance committees will terminate if the percentage of all the outstanding shares of our common stock owned by Invus and its affiliates falls below ten percent. Invus will also have the right to terminate these provisions at any time following the date on which the percentage of all the outstanding shares of our common stock owned by Invus and its affiliates exceeds 50% (not counting for such purpose any shares acquired by Invus and its affiliates from third parties in excess of 40% (or, if higher, its then pro rata amount) of the total number of outstanding shares of our common stock, as permitted by the standstill provisions of the stockholders’ agreement). Invus has preemptive rights under the stockholders’ agreement to participate in future equity issuances by us (including any qualified offering), subject to certain exceptions, so as to maintain its then-current percentage ownership of our capital stock. Subject to certain limitations, Invus will be required to exercise its preemptive rights in advance with respect to certain marketed offerings, in which case it will be obligated to buy its pro rata share of the number of shares being offered in such marketed offering, including any overallotment (or such lesser amount specified in its exercise of such rights), so long as the sale of the shares were priced within a range within ten percent above or below the market price on the date we notified Invus of the offering and we met certain other conditions. The provisions of the stockholders’ agreement relating to preemptive rights will terminate on the earlier to occur of August 28, 2017 and the date on which the percentage of all the outstanding shares of our common stock owned by Invus and its affiliates falls below ten percent. Invus is subject to standstill provisions restricting its ability to purchase or otherwise acquire additional shares of common stock from third parties to an amount that would result in its ownership of our common stock not exceeding 49% of the total number of shares outstanding. These standstill provisions will not apply to the acquisitions of securities by way of stock splits, stock dividends, reclassifications, recapitalizations, or other distributions by us, acquisitions contemplated by the securities purchase agreement and the stockholders’ agreement, including in the rights offerings and upon Invus’ exercise of preemptive rights under the stockholders’ agreement. Except for acquisitions pursuant to the provisions described above, and subject to certain exceptions, Invus has agreed that it will not, and will cause its affiliates not to, without the approval of our unaffiliated board, directly or indirectly: · solicit proxies to vote any of our voting securities or any voting securities of our subsidiaries; · submit to our board of directors a written proposal for any merger, recapitalization, reorganization, business combination or other extraordinary transaction involving an acquisition of us or any of our subsidiaries or any of our or our subsidiaries’ securities or assets by Invus and its affiliates; · enter into discussions, negotiations, arrangements or understandings with any third party with respect to any of the foregoing; or · request us or any of our representatives, directly or indirectly, to amend or waive any of these standstill provisions. The standstill provisions of the stockholders’ agreement will terminate on the earliest to occur of (a) August 28, 2017, (b) the date on which the percentage of all the outstanding shares of our common stock owned by Invus and its affiliates falls below ten percent, (c) the date on which the percentage of all of the outstanding shares of our common stock owned by Invus and its affiliates exceeds 50% (not counting for such purpose any shares acquired by Invus from third parties in excess of 40% (or, if higher, its then pro rata amount) of the total number of outstanding shares of common stock, as permitted by the standstill provisions of the stockholders’ agreement), (d) the date on which any third party makes a public proposal to acquire (by purchase, exchange, merger or otherwise) assets or business constituting 50% or more of our revenues, net income or assets or 50% of any class of our equity securities our board of directors recommends or approves, or proposes to recommend or approve, any such transaction or (e) the date on which any third party acquires beneficial ownership (by purchase, exchange, merger or otherwise) of assets or business constituting 20% or more of our revenues, net income or assets or 20% of any class of our equity securities or our board of directors recommends or approves, or proposes to recommend or approve, any such transaction. 26 Table of Contents Subject to certain exceptions, Invus has agreed that neither it nor its affiliates will sell any shares of common stock to third parties that are not affiliated with Invus if, to Invus’ knowledge, such transfer would result in any such third party (or any person or group including such third party) owning more than 14.9% of the total number of outstanding shares of our common stock. The provisions of the stockholders’ agreement relating to sales to third parties will terminate on the earliest to occur of (a) August 28, 2017, (b) the date on which the percentage of all the outstanding shares of our common stock owned by Invus and its affiliates falls below ten percent, and (c) the date on which the percentage of all the outstanding shares of our common stock owned by Invus and its affiliates exceeds 50% (not counting for such purpose any shares acquired by Invus and its affiliates from third parties in excess of 40% (or, if higher, its then pro rata amount) of the total number of outstanding shares of our common stock, as permitted by the standstill provisions of the stockholders’ agreement). In any election of persons to serve on our board of directors, Invus will be obligated to vote all of the shares of common stock held by it and its affiliates in favor of the directors nominated by our board of directors, as long as we have complied with our obligation with respect to the designation of members of our board of directors described above and the individuals designated by Invus for election to our board of directors have been nominated, and, if applicable, are serving on our board of directors. With respect to all other matters submitted to a vote of the holders of our common stock, Invus will be obligated to vote any shares that it acquired from third parties in excess of 40% (or, if higher, its then pro rata amount) of the total number of outstanding shares of common stock, as permitted by the standstill provisions of the stockholders’ agreement, in the same proportion as all the votes cast by other holders of our common stock, unless Invus and we (acting with the approval of the unaffiliated board) agree otherwise. Invus may vote all other shares of our common stock held by it in its sole discretion. The provisions of the stockholders’ agreement relating to voting will terminate on the earliest to occur of (a) August 28, 2017, (b) the date on which the percentage of all the outstanding shares of our common stock held by Invus and its affiliates falls below ten percent, (c) the date on which the percentage of all outstanding shares of our common stock owned by Invus and its affiliates exceeds 50% (not counting for such purpose any shares acquired by Invus from third parties in excess of 40% (or, if higher, its then pro rata amount) of the total number of outstanding shares of our common stock, as permitted by the provisions of the stockholders’ agreement), and (d) the termination of the standstill provisions in accordance with the stockholders’ agreement. Invus is entitled to certain minority protections, including consent rights over (a) the creation or issuance of any new class or series of shares of our capital stock (or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of our capital stock) having rights, preferences or privileges senior to or on parity with our common stock, (b) any amendment to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or amendment to the certificate of incorporation or bylaws of any of our subsidiaries, in a manner adversely affecting Invus’ rights under the securities purchase agreement and the related agreements, (c) the repurchase, retirement, redemption or other acquisition of our or our subsidiaries’ capital stock (or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of our or our subsidiaries’ capital stock), (d) any increase in the size of our board of directors to more than 12 members and (e) the adoption or proposed adoption of any stockholders’ rights plan, “poison pill” or other similar plan or agreement, unless Invus is exempt from the provisions of such plan or agreement. The provisions of the stockholders’ agreement relating to minority protections will terminate on the earlier to occur of August 28, 2017 and the date on which Invus and its affiliates hold less than 15% of the total number of outstanding shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 