Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in shares of our common stock involves various risks. Before deciding to invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K and information incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. We may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, especially due to our level of non-performing assets. Further, our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. For the year ended September 30, 2014, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $1.2 million and net loan charge-offs of $3.5 million. While our non-performing assets decreased from $34.0 million, or 2.66% of total assets, at September 30, 2013 to $32.8 million, or 2.37% of total assets, at September 30, 2014, the amount at September 30, 2014 remained elevated compared to historical levels that we experienced prior to the economic downturn in 2007. The elevated level of non-performing assets was primarily due to the weakened economy and the soft real estate market. If the economy and/or the real estate market remain weak, these assets may not perform according to their terms and the value of the collateral may be insufficient to repay any remaining loan balance. If this occurs, we may experience losses, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date based on various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio. Including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. However, if the results of our analyses are not correct, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Federal regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our commercial lending exposes us to lending risks. At September 30, 2014, $715.7 million, or 63.7%, of our loan portfolio consisted of loans to commercial borrowers, including commercial and multi-family real estate loans and commercial and industrial loans, and to a lesser extent, land acquisition and development loans and real estate construction and development loans. We intend to continue to offer these types of lending, with an emphasis in owner-occupied commercial real estate loans and commercial and industrial loans. Commercial loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential 40 Table of Contents mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the business and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risk since they typically are dependent on the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flows of the business and are secured by secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. Further, unlike residential mortgages or multi-family or commercial real estate loans, commercial and industrial loans may be secured by collateral other than real estate, such as inventory and accounts receivable, the value of which may be more difficult to appraise and may be more susceptible to fluctuation in value at the time of default. Our emphasis on residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit exposes us to lending risks. At September 30, 2014, $273.4 million, or 24.3%, of our loan portfolio consisted of one- to four-family residential first mortgage loans, $39.6 million, or 3.5%, of our loan portfolio consisted of one- four-family residential second mortgage loans and $90.2 million, or 8.0%, of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity lines of credit. Declines in the housing market in recent years resulted in declines in real estate values in our market areas. These declines in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage and home equity lines of credit to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. During the years ended September 30, 2014, 2013 and 2012, we experienced net charge-offs of $3.2 million, $6.5 million and $16.4 million, respectively, on residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. Since a large portion of home equity lines of credit are generally originated in conjunction with the origination of first mortgage loans eligible for sale in the secondary market, and we typically do not service the related first mortgage loans if they are sold, we may be unable to track the delinquency status of the related first mortgage loans and whether such loans are at risk of foreclosure by others. In addition, home equity lines of credit are initially offered as “revolving” lines of credit whereby the borrowers are only required to make scheduled interest payments during the initial term of the loans, which is generally five years. Thereafter, the borrowers no longer have the ability to make principal draws from the lines and the loans convert to a fully-amortizing basis, requiring scheduled principal and interest payments sufficient to repay the loans within a certain period of time, which is generally 10 years. The conversion of a home equity line of credit to a fully amortizing basis presents an increased level of default risk to us since the borrower no longer has the ability to make principal draws on the line, and the amount of the required monthly payment could substantially increase to provide for scheduled repayment of principal and interest. Refer to Item 1, Business, Loan Underwriting Risks, for a more complete discussion of the risks associated with home equity lines of credit. High loan-to-value ratios on a portion of our residential mortgage and home equity line of credit portfolios expose us to greater risk of loss. A portion of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because we originated a first mortgage with an 80% loan-to-value ratio at the time of purchase and a concurrent second mortgage with a combined loan-to-value ratio of up to 100%. At September 30, 2014, approximately $11.8 million of second mortgage loans, or 2.8% of our $403.1 million residential mortgage loan portfolio, had original combined loan-to-value ratios in excess of 90% based on appraisals obtained at the time of origination. In addition, our home equity lines of 41 Table of Contents credit may have, when added to existing senior lien balances, a combined loan-to-value ratio at the date of origination based upon the fully-disbursed amount of up to 100% of the value of the home securing the loan. At September 30, 2014, we held $19.4 million of uninsured home equity lines of credit with a combined loan-to-value ratio in excess of 90% based on a combination of original and updated appraisals. Subsequent declines in real estate values have likely resulted in an increase in such loan-to-value ratios. Residential loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than would those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and, therefore, may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the proceeds of the sale. Our earnings could be negatively affected if the level of our non-performing assets increases. While our non-performing assets decreased from $34.0 million, or 2.66% of total assets, at September 30, 2013 to $32.8 million, or 2.37% of total assets, at September 30, 2014, the amount at September 30, 2014 remained elevated compared to historical levels that we experienced prior to the economic downturn in 2007. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or real estate acquired through or in lieu of foreclosure, which has a negative impact on our net interest margin. An increase in non-performing assets might require additions to our allowance for loan losses through provisions for loan losses, which are recorded as charges to income. From time to time, we may record write downs of the value of properties that we previously acquired through foreclosure to reflect changing market values, which are also recorded as charges to income. There are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to foreclosed properties. A return of recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Although the U.S. economy has emerged from the severe recession that occurred in 2008 and 2009, economic growth has been slow and uneven, and unemployment levels remain high. Recovery by many businesses has been impaired by lower consumer spending. A return to prolonged deteriorating economic conditions could significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued elevated unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies, increases in our non-performing and criticized classified assets and a decline in demand for our products and services. These events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the economic downturn, our non-performing assets and troubled debt restructurings jumped from $24.4 million at September 30, 2008 to $67.8 million at September 30, 2009 and then to $74.5 million at September 30, 2010. Since that time, the amount of non-performing assets and troubled debt restructurings has declined to $32.8 million at September 30, 2014. Reduction in problem assets has been slow, and the process has been exacerbated by the condition of some of the properties securing non-performing loans and extended workout plans with certain borrowers. As we work through the resolution of these assets, the continued economic problems that exist in the financial markets could have a negative impact on the Company. 42 Table of Contents If the value of real estate in the St. Louis, Kansas City and Omaha metropolitan areas were to decline, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The St. Louis, Kansas City and Omaha metropolitan areas experienced declines in home prices over the past several years. Weak local economic conditions could have an additional adverse affect on the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans. A further decline in property values would diminish our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral, making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would reduce our earnings. Also, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. Real estate values are affected by various factors in addition to local economic conditions, including, among other things, changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. If our foreclosed real estate is not properly valued or if our reserves are insufficient, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed and the property taken in as foreclosed real estate and at certain other times during the holding period of the asset. Our net book value in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated fair value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset’s net book value over its fair value less estimated selling costs. If our valuation process is incorrect, or if property values decline, the fair value of our foreclosed real estate may not be sufficient to recover our carrying value in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our foreclosed real estate and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Significant charge-offs to our foreclosed real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Adverse conditions in the local economy could decrease our earnings. Since the latter half of 2007, depressed economic conditions have existed throughout the United States, including our market areas. During this period, our market areas experienced home price declines, increased foreclosures and increased unemployment rates. Continued weak economic conditions in our market areas could reduce or limit our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased loan delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in our market areas could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. 43 Table of Contents An increase in interest rates may reduce our mortgage revenues, which would negatively impact our non-interest income. Our mortgage banking operations provide a significant portion of our interest and non-interest income. We generate mortgage revenues primarily from gains on the sale of mortgage loans to investors on a servicing-released basis. We also earn interest on loans held for sale while they are awaiting delivery to our investors. In a rising or higher interest rate environment, our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors. This would result in a decrease in interest income and a decrease in mortgage revenues. In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of non-interest expenses associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense and other operating costs. During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in mortgage loan origination activity. Our mortgage originations could continue to decrease due to a slowdown in refinance activity, which could result in less non-interest income. Mortgage revenues, which we recognize from the sale in the secondary market of mortgage loans originated by our mortgage lending division, have traditionally been our largest source of non-interest income and a significant contributor to our net income. As the result of the low level of market interest rates that existed throughout fiscal 2012 and the first half of fiscal 2013, we saw strong demand for loans to refinance existing mortgages during these periods. However, a rise in market interest rates during mid-June 2013 dampened this demand for refinancings during the remaining part of fiscal 2013 and all of fiscal 2014. Loans originated to refinance existing mortgages totaled $120.2 million, or 16.3% of total loans originated for sale, for the year ended September 30, 2014 compared with $594.4 million, or 45.9% of total loans originated for sale, in 2013 and $798.5 million, or 56.6% of total loans originated for sale, in 2012. If market interest rates remain at these elevated levels, we believe there will be fewer opportunities for financial institutions to originate loans to refinance existing mortgages. If our mortgage originations decrease, our mortgage revenues and non-interest income will decrease. Secondary mortgage market conditions could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to being affected by interest rates, the secondary mortgage markets are also subject to investor demand for residential mortgage loans and increased investor yield requirements for those loans. These conditions may fluctuate or even worsen in the future. In light of current conditions, there is a higher risk to retaining a larger portion of mortgage loans than we would in other environments until they are sold to investors. We believe our ability to retain fixed-rate residential mortgage loans is limited. As a result, a prolonged period of secondary market illiquidity may reduce our loan production volumes and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. If we are required to repurchase mortgage loans that we have previously sold, it would negatively affect our earnings. One of our primary business operations is our mortgage banking operations, under which we sell residential mortgage loans in the secondary market. Our agreements with these investors contain standard representations and warranties and early payment default clauses that could require us to repurchase mortgage loans sold to these investors or reimburse the investors for losses incurred on loans in the event of borrower default within a defined period after origination (generally 90 days), or in the event of breaches of contractual representations or warranties made at the time of sale that are not remedied within 44 Table of Contents a defined period after we receive notice of such breaches (generally 90 days). In addition, we may be required to refund the profit received from the sale of a loan to an investor if the borrower pays off the loan within a defined period after origination, which is generally 120 days. We have experienced increasing repurchase demands from and disputes with these buyers. If we are required to repurchase mortgage loans or provide indemnification or other recourse, this could significantly increase our costs and thereby affect our future earnings. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We anticipate that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., the prime rate) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. Additionally, an increase in the general level of interest rate may also adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Legislative financial reforms and future regulatory reforms required by such legislation could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, will have a broad impact on the financial services industry, including significant regulatory and compliance changes. Many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented over time and most will be subject to implementing regulations over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision was merged into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Savings and loan holding companies, including the Company, became regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. Although savings and loan holding companies are not currently subject to specific regulatory capital requirements, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate consolidated capital requirements for all depository institution holding companies that are no less stringent, both quantitatively and in terms of components of capital, than those applicable to institutions themselves. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act codifies the Federal Reserve Board’s existing “source of strength” policy that holding companies act as a source of strength to their insured institution subsidiaries by providing capital, liquidity and other support in times of distress. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides for the creation of a new agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, to assure the implementation of federal consumer financial protection and fair lending laws for the depository institution regulators. Furthermore, 45 Table of Contents the Dodd-Frank Act repealed payment of interest on commercial demand deposits, forced originators of securitized loans to retain a percentage of the risk for the transferred loans, required regulatory rate-setting for certain debit card interchange fees and contained a number of reforms related to mortgage origination. In response to the changing regulatory environment, we have made enhancements to people, processes, and controls to ensure we are complying with new regulations. It is unclear what impact the Dodd-Frank Act will have on our business in the future as many of the regulations under the act are still being developed. However, we expect that we will need to continue to make additional investments in people, systems and outside consulting and legal resources to comply with the new regulations. While it is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the related yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on us, we expect that, at a minimum, our operating and compliance costs will increase, and our interest expense could increase, as a result of these new rules and regulations. In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal regulatory agencies recently have begun to take stronger supervisory actions against financial institutions that have experienced increased loan losses and other weaknesses as a result of the recent economic crisis. The actions include the entering into of written agreements and cease and desist orders that place certain limitations on their operations. Federal bank regulators recently have also been using with more frequency their ability to impose individual minimal capital requirements on banks, which requirements may be higher than those imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act or that would otherwise qualify the bank as being “well capitalized” under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s prompt corrective action regulations. If we were to become subject to a supervisory agreement or higher individual capital requirements, such action may have a negative impact on our ability to execute our business plans, as well as our ability to grow, pay dividends or engage in mergers and acquisitions and may result in restrictions in our operations. See “Regulation and Supervision—Federal Savings Institution Regulation—Capital Requirements” for a discussion of regulatory capital requirements. The Company’s ability to pay dividends and meet its interest obligations are subject to the ability of the Bank to make capital distributions to the Company. The Company’s ongoing liquidity needs include funding its general operating expenses, paying dividends on its common and preferred stock and paying interest on its subordinated debentures. The Company is dependent on the receipt of dividends from the Bank to satisfy these obligations. Under federal regulations as they currently apply to the Bank, the Bank is required to obtain prior approval from the OCC and non-objection from the Federal Reserve before it can make a capital distribution to the Company. If the Bank cannot obtain such approvals and is unable to make a capital distribution to the Company, the Company would need to find other sources of liquidity or reduce its obligations, which could require it to reduce or eliminate its dividend to common shareholders and/or suspend its dividend payments on its preferred stock and its interest payments on its subordinated debentures. Additionally, the Federal Reserve has issued a policy statement regarding the payment of dividends and the repurchase of shares of common stock by bank holding companies that it has also made applicable to savings and loan holding companies. In general, the policy provides that dividends should be paid only out of current earnings and only if the prospective rate of earnings retention by the holding company appears consistent with the organization’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. These regulatory policies could affect our ability to pay dividends, repurchase shares of common stock or otherwise engage in capital distributions. 46 Table of Contents If the goodwill that we recorded in connection with a business acquisition becomes impaired, it could have a negative impact on our profitability. Goodwill represents the amount of acquisition cost over the fair value of net assets we acquired in the purchase of another financial institution. We review goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the asset might be impaired. We determine impairment by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Any such adjustments are reflected in our results of operations in the periods in which they become known. At September 30, 2014, our goodwill totaled $3.9 million. While we have recorded no impairment charges since we initially recorded the goodwill, there can be no assurance that our future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business strategy includes moderate growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. Over the next several years, we expect to experience moderate growth in the amount of our assets, the level of our deposits and the scale of our operations. Achieving our growth targets requires us to attract customers that currently bank at other financial institutions in our market, thereby increasing our share of the market. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to attract and retain experienced bankers, the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance growth opportunities will be available or that we will successfully manage our growth. If we do not manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to achieve our business plan, and our business and prospects could be harmed. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that we will have sufficient capital resources to satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. If we raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities, it would dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders, which may adversely impact our current shareholders. Also, the need to raise additional capital may force our management to spend more time in managerial and financing-related activities than in operational activities. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital, if needed, with favorable terms. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. 47 Table of Contents Our wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits at maturity and support our future growth. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to deposits and funds from the repayments and maturities of loans and investments. As we continue to grow, we may become more dependent on these sources, which include FHLB advances, borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank, proceeds from the sale of loans, and brokered certificates of deposit. At September 30, 2014, we had $167.9 million of FHLB advances outstanding with an additional $63.7 million available borrowing capacity, no borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank outstanding with $152.3 million of available borrowing capacity and certificates of deposit obtained through national brokers totaling $44.1 million. If we were to become less than “well capitalized,” as defined by applicable federal regulations, it would materially restrict our ability to acquire and retain brokered deposits and could reduce the maximum borrowing limits we currently have available through the FHLB and the Federal Reserve Bank. Additionally, adverse operating results or changes in industry conditions could lead to difficulty or an inability to access these additional funding sources. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. The building of market share through the creation of new branches or loan production offices could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues. We may continue to build market share in the St. Louis metropolitan area by opening new full-service banking branches and in other midwestern and contiguous markets by opening residential loan production offices. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and loan production offices and such new locations generally require a period of time to generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch or loan production office can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until they reach certain economies of scale. We have no assurance any new branches or loan production offices will be successful even after they have been established. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. Our future success and profitability is substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend, in part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified management. We are especially dependent on a limited number of key management personnel, none of whom has an employment agreement with us, except for our chief executive officer. The loss of the chief executive officer and other senior executive officers could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 48 Table of Contents Our failure to continue to recruit and retain qualified loan originators could adversely affect our ability to compete successfully and affect our profitability. Our continued success and future growth depend heavily on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and motivated loan originators and other banking professionals. We compete against many institutions with greater financial resources both within our industry and in other industries to attract these qualified individuals. Our failure to recruit and retain adequate talent could reduce our ability to compete successfully and adversely affect our business and profitability. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Pulaski Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, its chartering authority, and by the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits. The Company is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of Pulaski Bank rather than the holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq that are applicable to us, have, in recent years, increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, including the costs of completing our audit and maintaining our internal controls. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. Additionally, we outsource our data processing to a third party. If our third party provider encounters difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third party, it will significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect our business operations. We are subject to losses due to the errors or fraudulent behavior of employees or third parties. We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical recordkeeping errors and transactional errors. Our business is dependent on our employees as well as third-party service providers to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. We could be materially adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational breakdown or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. When we originate loans, we rely upon information supplied by loan applicants and third parties, including the information contained in the loan application, property appraisal and title information, if applicable, and employment and income 49 Table of Contents documentation provided by third parties. If any of this information is misrepresented and such misrepresentation is not detected prior to loan funding, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. Any of these occurrences could result in a diminished ability of us to operate our business, potential liability to customers, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our growth and profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and has occasionally forced us to offer higher deposit rates or experience a significant decline in the balance of our deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. In addition, such competition could result in a significant decline in the balance of our deposits. Many of our competitors are larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, smaller resources and smaller lending limits, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance this strategy will be successful. 50 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 