ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. Investors or potential investors in our stock should carefully consider the risks described below. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business We have not yet achieved positive cash flows. Our net cash used in operating activities was $5.2 million in 2013 and $4.8 million in 2012. We may not be able to achieve revenue growth, profitability or positive cash flow, on either a quarterly or annual basis, and that profitability, if achieved, may not be sustained. If we are unable to achieve or sustain profitability, we may not be financially viable in the future and may have to curtail, suspend, or cease operations, restructure existing operations to attempt to ensure future viability, or pursue other alternatives such as re-filing for bankruptcy, pursuing dissolution and liquidation, seeking to merge with another company, selling all or substantially all of our assets or raising additional capital through equity or debt financings. Because of our recurring losses and negative cash flows from operations, the audit report of our independent registered public accountants on our consolidated financial statements contains an explanatory paragraph stating that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have generated significant losses since our inception in 2000, and losses in the future could cause the trading price of our stock to decline or have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, our ability to pay our debts as they become due and on our cash flows. Since we began operations in February 2000, we have incurred an accumulated deficit in excess of $200 million. We may not be able to achieve or maintain profitable operations if achieved. If our losses continue, our liquidity may continue to be severely impaired, our stock price may fall and our shareholders may lose all or a significant portion of their investment. If we are not able to attain profitability in the near future our financial condition could deteriorate further which could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects and result in a significant or complete loss of your investment. Further, we may be unable to pay our debt obligations as they become due, which include obligations to secured creditors. 14 Index We may need to raise additional funds through debt or equity financings in the future to achieve our business objectives and to satisfy our cash obligations, which would dilute the ownership of our existing shareholders and possibly subordinate certain of their rights to the rights of new investors. We may need to raise additional funds through debt or equity financings in order to complete our ultimate business objectives. We also may choose to raise additional funds in debt or equity financings if they are available to us on reasonable terms to increase our working capital, strengthen our financial position or to make acquisitions. Our board of directors (the Board) has the ability, without seeking shareholder approval, to issue convertible debt and additional shares of common stock or preferred stock that is convertible into common stock for such consideration as the board of directors may consider sufficient, which may be at a discount to the market price. Any sales of additional equity or convertible debt securities would result in dilution of the equity interests of our existing shareholders, which could be substantial. Additionally, if we issue shares of preferred stock or convertible debt to raise funds, the holders of those securities might be entitled to various preferential rights over the holders of our common stock, including repayment of their investment, and possibly additional amounts, before any payments could be made to holders of our common stock in connection with an acquisition of us. Such preferred shares, if authorized, might be granted rights and preferences that would be senior to, or otherwise adversely affect, the rights and the value of our common stock. Also, new investors may require that we and certain of our shareholders enter into voting arrangements that give them additional voting control or representation on our board of directors. Any material weaknesses in our internal control over financing reporting in the future could adversely affect investor confidence, impair the value of our common stock and increase our cost of raising capital. Any future failure to remedy deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that may be discovered or our failure to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of such controls, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could, in turn, affect the future ability of our management to certify that internal control over our financial reporting is effective. Inferior internal control over financial reporting could also subject us to the scrutiny of the SEC and other regulatory bodies which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and could subject us to civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. In addition, if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our share price. Furthermore, deficiencies could result in future non-compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Such non-compliance could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including review by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. There are significant market risks associated with our business. We have formulated our business plan and strategies based on certain assumptions regarding the size of the rice bran market, our anticipated share of this market, the estimated price and acceptance of our products and other factors. These assumptions are based on our best estimates, however our assessments may not prove to be correct. Any future success may depend upon factors including changes in the dietary supplement industry, governmental regulation, increased levels of competition, including the entry of additional competitors and increased success by existing competitors, changes in general economic conditions, increases in operating costs including costs of rice bran, production, supplies, personnel, equipment, and reduced margins caused by competitive pressures. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We may face difficulties integrating businesses we acquire. As part of our strategy, we expect to review opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies, such as the acquisition of H&N that was completed on January 2, 2014, that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities. The H&N acquisition and other acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products; • unanticipated costs; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; 15 Index • potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations; • problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products; • unanticipated costs; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations. We have significant foreign operations and there are inherent risks in operating overseas. An important component of our business strategy is to build rice bran stabilization and rice bran oil facilities in foreign countries and to market and sell our products internationally. For example, we have an operation in Brazil which manufactures rice bran oil. There are risks in operating facilities in foreign countries because, among other reasons, we may be unable to attract sufficient qualified personnel, intellectual property rights may not be enforced as we expect, and legal rights may not be available as contemplated. Should any of these risks occur, our ability to expand our foreign operations may be materially limited and we may be unable to maximize the output from these facilities and our financial results may decrease from our anticipated levels. The inherent risks of international operations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The types of risks faced in connection with international operations and sales include, among others: • cultural differences in the conduct of business; • fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • challenges in obtaining and maintaining financing; • impact of recessions in economies outside of the United States; • reduced or obtainable protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • political conditions in each country; • management and operation of an enterprise spread over various countries; • the burden and administrative costs of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; and • currency restrictions. Brazilian economic, political and other conditions, and Brazilian government policies or actions in response to these conditions, may negatively affect our business and results of operations. The Brazilian economy has historically been characterized by interventions by the Brazilian government and unstable economic cycles. The Brazilian government has often changed monetary, taxation, credit, tariff and other policies to influence the course of Brazil’s economy. For example, the government’s actions to control inflation have at times involved setting wage and price controls, blocking access to bank accounts, imposing exchange controls and limiting imports into Brazil. We have no control over, and cannot predict, what policies or actions the Brazilian government may take in the future. Our Brazilian segment’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects may be adversely affected by, among others, the following factors: • exchange rate movements; • exchange control policies; • expansion or contraction of the Brazilian economy, as measured by rates of growth in GDP; • inflation; • tax policies; • other economic political, diplomatic and social developments in or affecting Brazil; • interest rates; • energy shortages; • liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; • changes in environmental regulation; and • social and political instability. Our interests in Nutra SA are subject to certain drag along rights and we may receive little or no proceeds from such sale. The Investors in Nutra SA (Investors) have the right to force the sale of all Nutra SA assets after the earlier of January 1, 2015, or upon the failure to process a certain level of rice bran in the second and third quarters of 2014. Should the Investors desire to sell 100% of Nutra SA to a third party, we are obligated to cooperate in the negotiation and sale of Nutra SA in accordance with the terms of such sale as agreed to thereby. In the event of a sale, the Investors are entitled to a preferential return of any proceeds received from the sale of Nutra SA in an amount equal to 2.3 times such investors’ unreturned capital which will be distributed first to such investors until the preferential return has been paid in full. The unreturned capital balance for the Investors as of March 25, 2014, is $14.3 million. Because of these drag along rights, we will only receive a certain portion of the proceeds if the sales proceeds are greater than the amount of such preferential return, and it is possible that we will receive no or little proceeds from the sale of Nutra SA. 16 Index The capital expansion project and temporary shut down at our Irgovel facility could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Irgovel is currently in the final stages and near completion of a capital expansion project involving installation of new equipment and improvements to existing infrastructure. As a result of the project, the Irgovel facility was shut down approximately ten weeks in the first quarter of 2014, while certain new equipment was brought on line. Where possible, we stockpiled certain inventory for sale during the period the plant was shut down. However, this inventory was not adequate to timely fulfill all outstanding orders during this period. Facility shut down and subsequent restart expenses may adversely affect our operating results in the period when these events occur. The installation of new equipment at the Irgovel facility involves significant uncertainties. For example, our new equipment may not perform as expected or may differ from design and/or specifications. If we are required to redesign or modify the equipment to ensure that it performs as expected, we may need to further shut down the facility until the equipment has been redesigned or modified as necessary. Any of the foregoing risks associated with the capital expansion project could lead to lower revenues or higher costs or otherwise have a negative impact on our future results of operations and financial condition. Irgovel has certain financial and operating performance obligations which if not met may lead to us losing management control over Irgovel. Under the limited liability company agreement for Nutra SA, as amended, Irgovel must satisfy certain financial performance requirements in order for us to maintain control over Irgovel. These financial performance requirements include Irgovel’s satisfaction of revenue, earnings and net debt targets described in the membership interest purchase agreement, as amended. In addition, Irgovel must meet certain minimum processing targets beginning in the second quarter of 2014 and achieve EBITDA of at least $4.0 million beginning in 2014. If Irgovel fails to meet these financial requirements, we could lose management control over Irgovel’s operations, and management control would transfer to the other investors in Nutra SA. Any such change in management control would cause us to no longer consolidate Irgovel’s financial results with our financial results. Instead, we would be required to account for Irgovel as an equity investment on our balance sheets which may negatively impact our share price. Our business could be affected adversely by labor disputes, strikes or work stoppages in Brazil. All of our employees at our Irgovel facility in Brazil are represented by a labor union and are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. As a result, we are subject to the risk of labor disputes, strikes, work stoppages and other labor-relations matters. Our collective bargaining agreement in Brazil has a one-year term and requires that we provide wage adjustments each year. We may be unable to negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on similar or more favorable terms and may experience work stoppages or other labor problems in the future. We could experience a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, potentially resulting in cancelled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation or shortages and reduced revenues and net income. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange could adversely affect our financial results. We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, including primarily the Brazilian Real. Currently, a significant portion of our revenues and expenses occur in our Brazilian subsidiary, Irgovel. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. Dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. Dollars at exchange rates in effect historically, during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. Dollar against the Brazilian Real and any other currency which affects a material amount of our operations, will affect our revenues, cost of sales, gross profit (loss), operating expenses, or other income and expenses and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. These fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Disruptions in financial markets may result in significant changes in foreign exchange rates in relatively short periods of time which further increases the risk of an adverse currency effect. Since we plan to expand our international operations, we will likely increase our exposure to foreign currency risks. We do not hedge our currency risk, and do not expect to, as currency hedges are expensive and do not necessarily reduce the risk of currency fluctuations over longer periods of time. 17 Index We depend on a limited number of customers. In the USA segment, in 2013, three customers accounted for 38% of segment revenues and the top ten customers accounted for 61% of segment revenues. As of December 31, 2013, the top ten customers in the USA segment accounted for 59% of segment accounts receivable. In the Brazil segment, three customers accounted for 35% of 2013 segment revenues and our top ten customers accounted for 53% of 2013 segment revenues. As of December 31, 2013, the top ten customers accounted for 68% of Brazil segment accounts receivable. We are dependent upon the continued growth, viability and financial stability of our customers. We expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenues. Consolidation among our customers may further reduce the number of customers that generate a significant percentage of our revenues and expose us to increased risks relating to dependence on a small number of customers. A significant reduction in sales to any of our customers or a customer could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The inability of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us may adversely affect our financial results. We currently depend on a limited number of customers. This results in a concentration of credit risk with respect to our outstanding accounts receivable. We consider the financial strength of the customer, the remoteness of the possible risk that a default event will occur, the potential benefits to our future growth and development, possible actions to reduce the likelihood of a default event and the benefits from the transaction before entering into a large credit limit for a customer. Although we analyze these factors, the ultimate collection of the obligation from the customer may not occur. Although we continue to expand our customer base in an attempt to mitigate the concentration of credit risk, the writing off of an accounts receivable balance could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables. Historically, we have not experienced any loss of our cash and cash equivalents, but we have experienced losses to our trade receivables. We may encounter difficulties in maintaining relationships with distributors and customers while enforcing our credit policies. We define credit risk as the risk of loss from obligors or counterparty default. Our credit risks arise from both distributors and consumers. Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control. Our ability to forecast future trends and spot shifts in consumer patterns or behavior even before they occur are vital for success in today’s economy. In managing risk, our objective is to protect our profitability, but also to protect, to the extent we can, our ongoing relationships with our distributors and customers. However, as part of our credit risk policies, we occasionally must, among other things, cancel, reduce credit limits and place cash only requirements for certain questionable accounts. These credit risk policies may negatively impact our relationships with our distributors and customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We rely upon a limited number of product offerings. The majority of the products that we have sold through December 31, 2013, have been based on SRB produced at our US facilities and RBO extracted at Irgovel. A decline in the market demand for our SRB and RBO products or the products of other companies utilizing our SRB and RBO products, would have a significant adverse impact on us. Our ability to generate sales is dependent upon our ability to continue our ongoing marketing efforts to raise awareness of our products and benefits of rice bran products generally. We are dependent on our ability to market products to animal food producers, food manufacturers, mass merchandisers and health food retailers, and to other companies for use in their products. We must increase the level of awareness of dietary supplements in general and our products in particular. We will be required to devote substantial management and financial resources to these marketing and advertising efforts and such efforts may not be successful. Our ability to adapt to sudden increases in demand of our product is limited by an adequate supply of raw rice bran and our ability to find additional facilities for production. Many of our current products depend on our proprietary technology using raw rice bran, which is a by-product from milling paddy rice to white rice. Our ability to manufacture SRB is currently limited to the production capability of our equipment located at our two suppliers’ rice mills in California and our own plant located adjacent to our supplier in Mermentau, Louisiana. At the facilities and our value-added product plants in Dillon, Montana and our facility in Pelotas, Brazil, we currently are capable of producing enough finished products to meet current demand. If demand for our products were to increase dramatically in the future, we would need additional production capacity which may take time and may expose us to additional long term operating costs. We may not be able to continue to secure adequate sources of raw rice bran to meet our future demand. Since rice bran has a limited shelf life, the supply of rice bran is affected by the amount of rice planted and harvested each year. If economic or weather conditions adversely affect the amount of rice planted or harvested, the cost of rice bran products that we use may increase. We are not always able to immediately pass cost increases to our customers and any increase in the cost of SRB products could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 18 Index We face competition from other companies that produce bran, grains and other alternative ingredients with similar benefits as our rice brans. Competition in our targeted industries, including nutraceuticals, functional food ingredients, rice bran oils, animal feed supplements and companion pet food ingredients is vigorous, with a large number of businesses engaged in the various industries. Many of our competitors have established reputations for successfully developing and marketing their products, including products that incorporate bran from other cereal grains and other alternative ingredients that are widely recognized as providing similar benefits as rice bran. In addition, many of our competitors have greater financial, managerial, and technical resources than we do. If we are not successful in competing in these markets, we may not be able to attain our business objectives. We must comply with our contractual obligations. We have numerous ongoing contractual obligations under various purchase, sale, supply, production and other agreements which govern our business operations. We also have contractual obligations which require ongoing payments such as various debt agreements and lease obligations and the agreement of Irgovel to pay tax obligations to the Brazilian government. While we seek to comply at all times with these obligations, we may not be able to comply with the terms of all contracts during all periods of time, especially if there are significant changes in market conditions or our financial condition. If we are unable to comply with our material contractual obligations, there likely would be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints both domestically and abroad and our failure to comply with these laws, regulations and constraints could lead to the imposition of significant penalties or claims, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. In both the U.S. and foreign markets, the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, sale and storage of our products are affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints. Such laws, regulations and other constraints may exist at the federal, state or local levels in the United States and at all levels of government in foreign jurisdictions. The dietary supplement and cosmetic industries are subject to considerable government regulation, both as to efficacy as well as labeling and advertising. We are subject to regulation by one or more federal agencies including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC), and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), state and local authorities and foreign governmental agencies including the Brazilian National Health Surveillance Agency. In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may negatively impact the marketing of our products, resulting in significant loss of sales revenues. Our failure to comply with these current and new regulations could lead to the imposition of significant penalties or claims, limit the production or marketing of any non-compliant products or advertising and could negatively impact our business. We may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls. We sell food and nutritional products for animal and human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination or spoilage, product tampering and other adulteration of food products. We may be subject to liability if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. We maintain a product liability policy for $5.0 million per year in the aggregate. In addition, we may voluntarily recall products in the event of contamination or damage. A significant product liability judgment or a widespread product recall may cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful, there may be negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury which could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers. Many of the risks of our business have only limited insurance coverage and many of our business risks are uninsurable. Our business operations are subject to potential product liability, environmental, fire, employee, manufacturing, shipping and other risks. Although we have insurance to cover some of these risks, the amount of this insurance is limited and includes numerous exceptions and limitations to coverage. In the event we were to suffer a significant uninsured claim, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. 19 Index Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain, enforce and protect our patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights for our products and technology. Our success is dependent upon our ability to protect and enforce the patents, trade secrets and trademarks that we have and to develop and obtain new patents and trademarks for future processes, machinery, compounds and products that we develop. The process of seeking patent protection may be long and expensive, and patents might not be issued or not be broad enough in scope. We may not be able to protect our technology adequately, and our competition may be able to develop similar technology that does not infringe or encroach upon any of our rights. There currently are no claims or lawsuits pending or threatened against us regarding possible infringement claims, but infringement claims by third parties, or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims, could be asserted in the future or that such assertions, if proven to be accurate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the future, litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of our efforts and other resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Adverse determinations in any litigation could result in the loss of our proprietary rights, subjecting us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our systems, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A license under a third party’s intellectual property rights might not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all. We are dependent on key employees. Our success depends upon the efforts of our top management team and certain other key employees, including the efforts of John Short (chief executive officer), Dale Belt (chief financial officer), Mark McKnight (senior vice president of contract manufacturing), and Robert Smith, PhD (senior vice president of sales and business development). Although we have written employment agreements with our CEO and CFO, such individuals could die, become disabled, or resign. In addition, our success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain key management persons for positions relating to the marketing and distribution of our products. We may not be able to recruit and employ such executives at times and on terms acceptable to us. Also, volatility, lack of positive performance in our stock price and changes in our overall compensation program, including our equity incentive program, may adversely affect our ability to retain such key employees. Compliance with corporate governance and public disclosure regulations may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and new regulations issued by the SEC, such as Dodd-Frank, are creating uncertainty for companies. In order to comply with these laws, we may need to invest substantial resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment would result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our officers and directors have limited liability and have indemnification rights. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide that we may indemnify our officers and directors against losses sustained or liabilities incurred which arise from any transaction in that officer’s or director’s respective managerial capacity, unless that officer or director violates a duty of loyalty, did not act in good faith, engaged in intentional misconduct or knowingly violated the law, approved an improper dividend, or derived an improper benefit from the transaction. Risks Relating to Our Stock Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. The market price of the common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors, including: • announcements of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; • developments in our relationships with customers and suppliers; • our ability to obtain financing; 20 Index • the loss of services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees; • announcements of technological innovations or new systems or enhancements used by us or our competitors; • developments in our or our competitors’ intellectual property rights; • adverse effects to our operating results due to impairment of goodwill; • failure to meet the expectation of securities analysts’ or the public; • general economic and market conditions; • our ability to expand our operations, domestically and internationally; • the amount and timing of expenditures related to any expansion; • litigation involving us, our industry or both; • actual or anticipated changes in expectations by investors or analysts regarding our performance; and • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Our stock price is volatile and we have been the target of shareholder litigation. Any shareholder litigation brought against us in the future could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources from our business. We have significant “equity overhang” which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. As of March 25, 2014, we had 3,031,860 shares of common stock outstanding and 4,146,454 shares of our common stock were issuable upon exercise of our outstanding options and warrants. In addition we may issue common stock in connection with the following: · In November 2013, certain warrant holders agreed to exchange warrants to purchase 496,060 shares of common stock for 1,554,734 shares of our common stock upon shareholders vote to approve an increase in our authorized shares of common stock; · In November 2013, an investor purchased an additional $0.5 million of notes, each of which bears 5% interest with a July 2016 maturity date, and will receive 134,250 shares of our common stock upon shareholders vote to approve an increase in our authorized shares of common stock; · In January 2014, in connection with our acquisition of H&N we entered into promissory notes for $3.3 million which must be settled through the issuance of shares of our common stock in certain circumstances. · In March 2014, we issued convertible notes in the principal amount of $4.9 million which automatically convert into 933,076 shares of common stock upon shareholders voting to approve an increase in our authorized shares of common stock. The possibility that substantial amounts of our common stock may be sold by investors or the perception that such sales could occur, often called “equity overhang,” could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities in the future. The issuance of the additional shares upon an increase in our authorized shares of common stock would significantly increase the amount of our common stock outstanding and the amount of the equity overhang. The impacts of antidiluton provisions in certain warrants may dilute current shareholders. As of March 25, 2014, we had 591,248 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants that contain antidilution provisions, with a current exercise price of $5.24. These antidilution provisions cause the exercise prices and conversion prices of the warrants to decrease automatically if we issue shares of our common stock or securities convertible into shares of our common stock at prices below the exercise price of these warrants. These adjustments automatically cause the number of shares issuable upon exercise of these warrants to proportionately increase. Any such adjustment could materially dilute the holders of our common stock. If we do not obtain shareholder approval to increase the number of our authorized shares of common stock in an amount sufficient to issue shares to certain warrant holders who agreed to exchange their warrants for shares of common stock and to a note holder in consideration for investing in additional notes issued by us, then an event of default would be triggered under those agreements. On November 13, 2013, certain warrant holders agreed to exchange warrants to purchase 496,060 shares of common stock for the future issuance of 1,554,734 shares of our common stock. In addition, an investor purchased an additional $0.5 million of notes, each of which bears 5% interest with a July 31, 2016 maturity date, in exchange for the future issuance of 134,250 shares of our common stock. Pursuant to the above agreements, the shares issuable to the former warrant holders and note holder will not be issued until our shareholders approve an increase in our authorized shares of common stock which increase we have agreed to request by July 1, 2014. Additionally, the holders of our subordinated convertible notes agreed to amend their notes to reduce the note interest rate to 5% from 10% and to remove the conversion feature and anti-dilutive protections under the note. If the shareholders do not approve to increase the authorized number of shares of common stock by July 1, 2014, the interest rate on the notes will increase to 10% until such time as sufficient shares of our common stock are authorized to issue such shares. In the event the issuance of shares under the Exchange constitutes an issuance of 20% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock at a price that is less than the market value of our common stock, we will also be required to obtain shareholder approval of the Exchange in accordance with the current NASDAQ Capital Market listing requirements before issuing all shares under the Exchange. We may, however, issue shares under the Exchange on a pro rata basis up to 19.9% of our outstanding shares prior to seeking shareholder approval on such issuances. 21 Index The authorization and issuance of preferred stock may have an adverse effect on the rights of holders of our common stock. Our board of directors, without further action or vote by holders of our common stock, has the right to establish the terms, preference, rights and restrictions and issue shares of preferred stock. The terms of any series of preferred stock could be issued with terms, rights, preferences and restrictions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and thereby reduce the value of our common stock. The designation and issuance of preferred stock favorable to current management or shareholders could make it more difficult to gain control of our board of directors or remove our current management and may be used to defeat hostile bids for control which might provide shareholders with premiums for their shares. We have designated and issued five series of preferred stock, no shares of which remain outstanding. We may issue additional series of preferred stock in the future. If we fail to comply with the continuing listing standards of The NASDAQ Capital Market, our securities could be delisted. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “RIBT”, and we also have outstanding warrants listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “RIBTW”. For our common stock and warrants to continue to be listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we must meet the current NASDAQ Capital Market continued listing requirements. If we were unable to meet these requirements, including, but not limited to, requirements to obtain shareholder approval of a transaction other than a public offering involving the sale or issuance equal to 20% or more of our common stock at a price that is less than the market value of our common stock, our common stock and warrants could be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. If our securities were to be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, our securities could continue to trade on the over-the-counter bulletin board following any delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market, or on the Pink Sheets, as the case may be. Any such delisting of our securities could have an adverse effect on the market price of, and the efficiency of the trading market for our securities, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and less coverage of us by securities analysts, if any. Also, if in the future we were to determine that we need to seek additional equity capital, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital in the public or private equity markets. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 