Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should consider carefully the following risks. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial position or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or a part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. 8 Table of Contents Our business, which depends heavily on revenue from customers in the banking and insurance industries and other financial services firms, may be materially adversely impacted by volatile U.S. and global market and economic conditions For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the banking and insurance industries and other financial services firms and retailers. Given the concentration of our business activities in financial industries, we may be particularly exposed to economic downturns in those industries. U.S. and global market and economic conditions have been disrupted and volatile over the past several years. General business and economic conditions that could affect us and our customers include fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, liquidity of the global financial markets, the availability and cost of credit, investor and consumer confidence, and the strength of the economies in which our customers operate. A poor economic environment could result in significant decreases in demand for our products and services, including the delay or cancellation of current or anticipated projects, and adversely affect our operating results. In addition to mergers and acquisitions in the banking industry, we have seen an increased level of bank closures and government supervised consolidation transactions. Our existing customers may be acquired by or merged into other financial institutions that have their own financial software solutions, be closed by regulators, or decide to terminate their relationships with us for other reasons. As a result, our sales could decline if an existing customer is merged with or acquired by another company or closed. Additionally, our investment portfolio is generally subject to credit, market, liquidity and interest rate risks and the value and liquidity of our investments may be adversely impacted by U.S. and global market and economic conditions including bank closures. We expect that the revenue we generate from our largest customer, State Farm, will decrease as our work efforts for them conclude by the end of 2011 which may cause our financial performance and our stock price to suffer State Farm accounted for 12%, 16% and 18% of our consolidated revenue and 26%, 30% and 33% of our Banking: Large FI segment revenue during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In 2008, we announced that we expected our relationship with State Farm to conclude by the end of 2011. We generated $25.2 million of revenue in 2010 from State Farm and expect to generate approximately $16 — $17 million in revenue in 2011 from this customer. We can give no assurance that we will be able to generate the foregoing revenue amounts from State Farm or that we will be able to replace the revenue or associated gross margin from State Farm. The delay or cancellation of a customer project, changes in project completion estimates, or inaccurate project completion estimates, may adversely affect our operating results and cause our financial performance to suffer Any unanticipated delays in a customer project, changes in customer requirements or priorities during the project implementation period, changes in project completion estimates, inaccurate project completion estimates, or a customer’s decision to cancel a project, may adversely impact our operating results and financial performance. When professional services are considered essential to the functionality of our software, we record license and professional services revenue over the project implementation period using the percentage of completion method, which is generally measured by the percentage of labor hours incurred to date to estimated total labor hours for each contract. The percentage of completion accounting method requires ongoing estimates of the progress being made on complex and difficult projects and measuring this progress is subject to potential inaccuracies and changes. Any inaccuracies or changes in estimates may lead to significant changes to our financial results and adversely impact our operating results and financial performance. Security breaches or computer viruses could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services, damaging our reputation and business, or resulting in material liability to us Our products and business may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other disruptive problems. In the course of providing services to our customers, we may collect, store, process or transmit sensitive and confidential financial information. Accordingly, it is critical that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure. A security breach affecting us could damage our reputation, deter organizations from purchasing our products, deter their end-user customers from using our products, or result in material liability to us. Privacy, security, and compliance concerns continue to increase. Security compromises, including identity theft and fraud, could deter people from using electronic commerce services such as ours. We may need to spend significant capital or other resources for compliance requirements and protection against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches. Additionally, computer viruses could infiltrate our systems and disrupt our business. Any inability to prevent security breaches, fraud or computer viruses could cause our customers to lose confidence in our services and terminate their agreements with us, and could reduce our ability to attract new customers or result in material liability to us. 9 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate and any fluctuations could adversely affect the price of our common stock If we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors as a result of any future fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. We may experience fluctuations in future quarters because: • implementation projects in our Payments and Banking: Large FI segments have been increasing in size, complexity and length and, in accordance with applicable accounting guidance, the software license revenue from these types of engagements is generally recognized over the implementation period (referred to as the percentage of completion method). We currently expect that the overall percentage of these types of engagements will increase over time and, as we shift to recognizing more software license revenue using the percentage of completion method, our current and near-term financial results may be negatively impacted; • software licenses and professional services revenue recognized under the percentage of completion method can vary from quarter to quarter due to the number and size of professional services projects, project scope changes, changes in estimates to completion, and project delays and cancellations; • we cannot accurately predict the value, number and timing of license or services agreements we will sign in a period, in part because the budget constraints and internal review processes of existing and potential customers are not within our control; • as we sell our products on both a perpetual license and a term or subscription license, we cannot accurately predict the mix of perpetual licenses to term licenses sold in any one quarter. Term licenses significantly reduce the amount of revenue recognized in the first year of the contract, but is intended to increase the overall revenue earned from the customer during the typical customer life cycle; perpetual license revenue can vary significantly on a quarterly basis; • the length of our sales cycle to large financial organizations generally lasts from six to 18 months, which adds an element of uncertainty to our ability to forecast revenue; • during our sales and implementation cycles, we expend substantial time, effort and resources preparing contract proposals, negotiating the contract and implementing the software and, if our efforts do not result in a sale (whether during the period in which such expenditures were incurred or at all), we will not realize any revenues to offset these expenditures during the period in which they were incurred or at all; • even if a sale is completed, revenue recognition can be delayed or fall below expectations if accounting guidance requires us to recognize revenue over the implementation period, potentially resulting in significant fluctuations in our revenue on a quarterly basis; as such, it is difficult to accurately predict the amount of revenue that will be recognized in any given quarter; • if we fail to or are delayed in the introduction of new or enhanced products, or if our competitors introduce new or enhanced products, sales of our products and services may not achieve expected levels and/or may decline; • our ability to expand the mix of distribution channels through which our products are sold may be limited; • our products may not achieve widespread market acceptance, which could cause our revenue to be lower than expected; • we have had significant contracts with legacy customers that have decreased or terminated their services and we may not be able to replace this revenue and/or the gross margins associated with this revenue; • our sales may be constrained by the timing of releases of third-party software that works with our products; • a significant percentage of our expenses is relatively fixed and we may be unable to reduce expenses in the short term if revenue decreases; and • the migration of our license sales model to be more focused on recurring revenue contracts may result in less predictable revenue due to an inability to predict the rate at which it is adopted by our customers, or the rate at which it may be deferred. The amount of our revenue backlog is based on a number of assumptions and is subject to a number of factors, many of which are completely outside of our control, and such revenue may not be recognized over the next 12 months, or at all As discussed in further detail in Item 1. “Business — Revenue Backlog,” implementation projects in our Payments and Banking: Large FI segments have been increasing in size, complexity and length. In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, the software licenses revenue from these types of engagements is generally recognized over the implementation period (which is referred to as the percentage of completion method). We currently expect that the overall percentage of these types of engagements will increase over time. 10 Table of Contents In light of the shift to recognizing more software license revenue using the percentage of completion method, we have disclosed the estimated amount of revenue backlog for the Payments and Banking: Large FI segments. These amounts include revenue for software licenses including term licenses, professional services, and hosting services, in each case as specified in executed contracts that management believes will be recognized over the next 12 months. The portion of the estimate from our Banking: Large FI segment does not include revenue associated with the State Farm business, which is expected to conclude by the end of 2011, or with the custom development project for an international branch customer, which is expected to decrease as the project winds down. As our Banking: Community FI segment primarily generates recurring revenue for support and maintenance and hosting, we do not believe that disclosing revenue backlog for the Banking: Community FI provides additional useful information. Our estimate of revenue backlog requires substantial judgment of our management. It is based on a number of assumptions, which may turn out to be inaccurate or wrong, and is subject a number of factors and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. Such assumptions, factors and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: • Revenue for term licenses and hosting services are the annualized amount expected over the next 12 months as of the date presented; • Foreign currency exchange rates are assumed to remain constant over the 12-month period for contracts stated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar; • Perpetual licenses and professional services are based on current estimates of project completion over the next 12 months; • Our customers may attempt to renegotiate or terminate their contracts for a number of reasons, including mergers, changes in their financial condition or general changes in economic conditions or geographic locations; • We may experience delays in the development or delivery of products or services specified in customer contracts; and • Our estimate is based on constant hosting transaction volumes, and changes in hosting transaction volumes may impact the amount of revenue actually recognized in future periods. Estimates of future financial results are inherently unreliable. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the amounts included in our estimate of revenue backlog will be recognized over the next 12 months, or at all. Additionally, because our estimate of revenue backlog is an operating metric, it is not subject to the same level of internal review or control as a U.S. GAAP financial measure. System failures, errors, defects or other performance problems with our products or data center operations could cause demand for our products to decrease, impair customer relations, or result in material liability to us Our products are used by our customers to provide services that are integral to their businesses and operations. Accordingly, any system failures, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers and could damage our reputation, deter organizations from purchasing our products, deter their end-user customers from using our products, or result in material liability to us. Additionally, our data center is an integral part of our business and any interruption in our data center operations, whether as a result of human error, power failure, telecommunications failure, fire, terrorism or otherwise, could damage our reputation, deter organizations from purchasing our products, deter their end-user customers from using our products, or result in material liability to us. We have engaged third-parties to assist us with certain implementation activities which may not be successful and which may result in harm to our business, reputation and financial results In order to optimize available professional services resources and meet delivery timeframes, we have established relationships with several third parties to assist us with implementing and customizing our products. As a result, we have less quality control over the implementation and customization of our software with respect to these deployments and are more reliant on the ability of these third parties to correctly implement and customize our software in a timely manner. If these third parties fail to properly implement our software, meet delivery deadlines, or meet quality requirements, our business, reputation and financial results may be harmed. 11 Table of Contents We are engaged in offshore software development activities which may not be successful and which may put our intellectual property at risk In order to optimize available research and development resources and meet development timeframes, in 2004 we acquired an Indian based development center. This center had been owned and operated for us by a third party since 2002. In 2004, associated with our acquisition of Mosaic Software Holdings Limited, we acquired a development center in Cape Town, South Africa. While our experience to date with these offshore development centers has been positive, there is no assurance this will continue. Specifically, there are a number of risks associated with this activity, including but not limited to the following: • communications and information flow may be less efficient and accurate as a consequence of time zone differences, distance and language differences between our primary development organization and the foreign based activities, resulting in delays in development or errors in the software developed; • potential disruption from the involvement of the United States in political and military conflicts around the world; • the quality of the development efforts undertaken offshore may not meet our requirements because of language, cultural and experience differences, resulting in potential product errors and/or delays; • we have experienced a greater level of voluntary turnover of personnel in India than in other development centers which could have an adverse impact on efficiency and timeliness of development as well as the opportunity for misappropriation of our intellectual property; • in addition to the risk of misappropriation of intellectual property from departing personnel, there is a general risk that the misappropriation of our intellectual property might not be readily discoverable; and • currency exchange rates could fluctuate and adversely impact the cost advantages intended from maintaining these facilities. We are from time to time involved in litigation over intellectual property or other proprietary rights which may be costly and time consuming to defend and our operating results would suffer if we were subject to a protracted infringement claim or a significant damage award Substantial intellectual property litigation and threats of litigation exist in our industry. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents or assert copyrights and/or trade secrets that could be infringed by our products or technology. Any of these third parties could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our products or technology and from time to time, we have received claims that certain of our products or other proprietary rights require a license of intellectual property rights of a party and infringe, or may infringe, the intellectual property rights of others. In some instances, our customers may be accused of infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. As a result, we provide certain indemnity for our customers against infringement claims. Even if such accusations ultimately prove lacking in merit, the disposition of such disputes may be costly, distracting, and result in damages, royalties, or injunctive relief preventing the use of the intellectual property in question and may require entering into licensing agreements, redesigning our products or ceasing production entirely. Any claims, with or without merit, could have the following negative consequences: • be time-consuming to investigate and defend; • result in costly litigation and damage awards; • divert management attention and resources; • cause product shipment delays or suspensions; • cause us to spend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, which we may not be able to do; • result in an injunction being issued against the use and sale of our products; and • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Infringement of our proprietary technology could hurt our competitive position and income potential Our success depends upon our proprietary technology and information. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our proprietary technology and information. Because it is difficult to police unauthorized use of software, the steps we have taken to protect our services and products may not prevent misappropriation of our technology. Any misappropriation of our proprietary technology or information could reduce any competitive advantages we may have or result in costly litigation. We also have a significant international presence and the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary technology as well as the laws of the United States. Additionally, it may be more difficult to identify the misappropriation of our intellectual property in foreign countries. Our ability to protect our proprietary technology may not be adequate. 12 Table of Contents Our business and financial results may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates In 2010, approximately 21% of our revenue and 24% of our operating expenses were transacted in currencies other than U.S. Dollars. We believe most of our international operations are naturally hedged for foreign currency risk as our foreign subsidiaries generally invoice their customers and satisfy their obligations in their local currencies. Therefore, our revenue may be impacted by foreign currency fluctuations from these international operations but the impact to our net income is generally minimized. However, our development center in India is not naturally hedged as their costs are in the local currency but they are funded in U.S. Dollars or British Pounds. Additionally, our South Africa operations are approximately 60% naturally hedged as some of the development and professional services performed are funded in U.S. Dollars and British Pounds. Accordingly, currency fluctuations in the Indian Rupee or South African Rand may negatively impact our financial results. Acquisitions may be costly and difficult to integrate, divert management resources or dilute stockholder value We have made acquisitions in the past and we may make additional acquisitions in the future. The integration of these companies and any future acquisitions into our existing operations is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process and may disrupt our business. Among the potential issues related to integration are: • incompatibility of business cultures; • delays in integrating diverse technology platforms; • difficulties in coordinating geographically separated organizations; • difficulties in re-training sales forces to market additional products across our intended markets; • difficulties implementing common internal business systems and processes; • conflicts in third-party relationships; and • loss of customers and key employees and the diversion of the attention of management from other ongoing business concerns. Additionally, the use of equity to finance an acquisition could dilute the interests of our stockholders. Our market is highly competitive and if we are unable to keep pace with evolving technology, successfully introduce new or enhanced products, or successfully migrate customers to new versions of our software, our financial performance maybe adversely impacted and our future prospects may decline The market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing technology, intense competition and evolving industry standards. We have many competitors who offer various components of our suite of applications or who use a different technology platform to accomplish similar tasks. In some cases, our existing customers also use some of our competitors’ products. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop, sell, implement and support enhancements of current products and new software products in response to changing customer needs. If the completion of the next version of any of our products is delayed or is otherwise unsuccessful, or if we are unable to successfully migrate customers to new versions of our software, including without limitation the Banking: Community FI segment’s new online banking solution, our financial performance and future prospects could be harmed. In addition, competitors may develop products or technologies that the industry considers more attractive than those we offer or that render our technology obsolete. Changes in credit card association or other network rules or standards could adversely affect the Company’s business In order to provide the Company’s payment gateway and application services, several of the Company’s products and services are registered with Visa and MasterCard and other networks as a payments application or service provider. As such, the Company is subject to card association and network rules that could subject the Company to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card associations or networks for certain acts or omissions by the Company. Visa, MasterCard and other networks set standards with respect to which the Company must comply. The termination of the Company’s status as a certified service provider or payment application, or any changes in card association or other network rules or standards, including interpretation and implementation of the rules or standards, that increase the cost of doing business or limit the Company’s ability to provide compliant payment applications and services could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to government regulation which may interfere with our ability to conduct our business, including our ability to attract and maintain customers, and could negatively impact our business and financial results We are subject to external audits, examination, and are indirectly regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of Thrift Supervision, National Credit Union Association and the various state financial regulatory agencies that supervise and regulate the banks, credit unions and thrift institutions for which we provide data processing services. Matters subject to review and examination by federal and state financial institution regulatory agencies and external auditors include our internal information technology controls in connection with our performance of data processing services, the agreements giving rise to those processing activities, and the design of our products that perform banking functions. Our ability to satisfy these audits and examinations and maintain compliance with applicable regulations could negatively affect our ability to conduct our business, including our ability to attract and maintain customers. 13 Table of Contents Market volatility may affect the price of our common stock The trading prices of technology stocks in general and ours in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations. Our stock price has fluctuated after declining from its high in 2000. More recently, the financial services sector has also experienced price fluctuations. Any further negative change in the public’s perception of the prospects of technology based companies, particularly those which provide services to the financial services sector such as ours, could further depress our stock price regardless of our results of operations. Other broad market and industry factors may decrease the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, also may affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to the following factors: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • approximately 36% of our common stock is owned by five institutions as of December 31, 2010, and a change in position of any one of these holders could cause a significant drop in our stock price if market demand is insufficient to meet sales demand; • announcements of new products, product enhancements, technological innovations or new services by us or our competitors; • delays or failures in introducing new or enhanced products or in migrating customers to new versions of our software: • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • conditions or trends in the computer software, electronic commerce and Internet industries; • changes in the market valuations of other technology companies; • developments in Internet regulations; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • unscheduled system downtime of our products in either a hosted or in-house environment; • security breaches in our software or facilities may cause harm to our business and reputation, result in a loss of customers or result in material liability to us; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • sales of our common stock or other securities in the open market. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could negatively affect our stock price If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issued when options are exercised, the market price of our common stock could fall. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 53.3 million shares of common stock outstanding, assuming no exercise of outstanding options. As of December 31, 2010, stock options to purchase approximately 5.9 million shares of our common stock and 1.2 million shares of unvested restricted stock were outstanding. The common stock issuable upon exercise of these options and vesting of restricted stock will be eligible for sale in the public market from time to time. The possible sale of a significant number of these shares may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. We face added business, political, regulatory, operational, financial and economic risks as a result of our international operations, any of which could increase our costs and hinder our growth We conduct our business worldwide and may be adversely affected by changes in demand resulting from: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • governmental currency controls; • changes in various regulatory requirements; • political, economic and military changes and disruptions; • difficulties in enforcing our contracts in foreign jurisdictions; • export/import controls; • tariff regulations; 14 Table of Contents • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales, professional services, product development and support operations; • greater difficulties in trade accounts receivable collection; and • possible adverse tax consequences. Some of our solutions may use encrypted technology, the export of which is regulated by the United States government. If the United States government were to adopt new legislation restricting the export of software or encryption technology, we could experience delays or reductions in our shipments of products internationally. In addition, existing or future export regulations could limit our ability to distribute our solutions outside of the United States. We maintain international offices and portions of our maintenance, consulting, and research and development operations in Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia and Latin America. Therefore, our operations may also be affected by economic conditions in international regions. Additionally, from time to time, we lend funds to our foreign subsidiaries to meet their operating and capital requirements and several of our foreign subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or limit the flow of funds from those subsidiaries. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that we need to make payments on obligations. The risks associated with international operations may harm our business. Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our financial results Our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent approximately 51% of our total assets at December 31, 2010. These assets consist of goodwill and identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets. If the carrying value of an asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could materially negatively affect our results of operations. We depend upon key employees and may be unable to hire or retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel Our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key employees and on our ability to hire and retain highly skilled management, technical, sales, and customer support personnel. There is substantial competition for employees with the skills we require and we compete for qualified employees with companies that may have greater financial resources than we have. Our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial position. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet, or interpretations of existing law, could adversely affect our business Laws and regulations which apply to communications and commerce over the Internet are becoming more prevalent. Currently, there are Internet laws regarding copyrights, taxation and the transmission of specified types of material. Congress also adopted legislation imposing obligations on financial institutions to notify their customers of the institution’s privacy practices, restrict the sharing of non-public customer data with non-affiliated parties at the customer’s request, and establish procedures and practices to protect and secure customer data. These privacy provisions are implemented by regulations with which compliance is required. Additionally, many legislative and regulatory actions have been enacted or are pending at the state and federal level with respect to privacy. Further, our customers and we may be faced with state and federal requirements that differ drastically, and in some cases conflict. In addition, the European Union enacted its own privacy regulations and it may in the future consider other Internet-related legislation. The law of the Internet, however, remains largely unsettled, even in areas where there has been some legislative action. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws such as those governing intellectual property, privacy, libel and taxation apply to the Internet. In addition, the growth and development of the market for online financial services, including online and mobile banking, may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws, both in the United States and abroad, that may impose additional burdens on companies. 15 Table of Contents Some anti-takeover provisions contained in our charter and under Delaware law could hinder a takeover attempt We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware prohibiting, under some circumstances, publicly-held Delaware corporations from engaging in business combinations with some stockholders for a specified period of time without the approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding voting stock. Such provisions could delay or impede the removal of incumbent directors and could make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us, even if such events could be beneficial, in the short-term, to the interests of our stockholders. In addition, such provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions relating to the limitations of liability and indemnification of our directors and officers, dividing our board of directors into three classes of directors serving three-year terms and providing that our stockholders can take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 