Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors or potential investors in our stock should carefully consider the risks described below. Our stock price will reflect the performance of our business relative to, among other things, our competition, expectations of securities analysts or investors, and general economic market conditions and industry conditions. One should carefully consider the following factors in connection with any investment in our stock. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if any of the following risks occur. Should any or all of the following risks materialize, the trading price of our stock could decline, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Emergence from Bankruptcy Our actual financial results may vary significantly from the projections filed with the Bankruptcy Court. In connection with the Chapter 11 Reorganization, we were required to prepare financial projections of the Parent Company to demonstrate the feasibility of the Amended Plan and our ability to continue operations upon emergence from bankruptcy. The financial projections, which were included in the disclosure statement approved by the Bankruptcy Court, reflected numerous assumptions concerning anticipated future performance and anticipated market and economic conditions that were and continue to be beyond our control and that may not materialize. Projections are inherently subject to uncertainties and to a wide variety of significant business, economic and competitive risks. Our actual results will vary from those contemplated by the projections for a variety of reasons. The projections have not been incorporated by reference into this report and neither those projections nor any version of the disclosure statement should be considered or relied upon in connection with any investment decision concerning our common stock. Our actual financial results after emergence from bankruptcy under Chapter 11 may not be comparable to our historical financial information. As a result of the implementation of the Amended Plan and the transactions contemplated thereby, our financial condition and results of operations may not be comparable to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in the Company’s historical financial statements. 18 Index We cannot be certain that the Chapter 11 Reorganization will not adversely affect our operations going forward. Although the Parent Company emerged from bankruptcy under Chapter 11 on November 30, 2010, the effective date of the Amended Plan, we cannot assure you that having been subject to bankruptcy protection will not adversely affect our operations going forward, including our ability to negotiate favorable terms from suppliers, partners and others and to attract and retain customers. The failure to obtain such favorable terms and attract and retain customers could adversely affect our financial performance. If we do not meet certain payment benchmarks as described in the Amended Plan, the Plan Agent will be able to direct and control the sale of certain of our assets. Under the Amended Plan, if we fail to meet certain payment benchmarks to our general unsecured creditors as described in the Amended Plan, the Plan Agent may direct and control the sale of (i) our Dillon, Montana facility, (ii) all of our loose equipment, and, if the third payment benchmark is not met, (iii) the sale of equipment located in our Lake Charles, Louisiana facility, and (iv) the sale of any other pledged assets. The general unsecured creditors may retain up to 100% of net proceeds from any such sale in satisfaction of their claims. Since we will not be able to control the sale of the above assets if we do not meet the payment benchmarks, we cannot guarantee that the assets will be sold at a value satisfactory to us. Our payment obligations under the Amended Plan may adversely affect our cash flow and we may not be able to obtain additional financing on satisfactory conditions. Our ability to service our payment obligations under the Amended Plan will depend upon, among other things, our future operating performance and the ability to enter into financing transactions. These factors depend partly on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. In addition, if we need to obtain additional financing or sell assets or equity, we may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Failure to service our payment obligations may result in the Plan Agent selling one or more of our assets, as described above. The Parent Company’s Obligations under its confirmed Plan of Reorganization As noted above, the Parent Company estimates that its payment obligations under the confirmed Amended Plan total $7 million. It intends to pay these obligations by selling non-core assets, collecting outstanding receivables, and borrowing on a secured basis. It has granted a lien in all of its assets to secure its payment obligations to general unsecured creditors. The lien is administered and may be enforced by a Plan Agent, who may, among other things, sell specified assets if the payment benchmarks set forth in the Amended Plan are not met. Risks Related to our Business The Company’s significant losses and negative cash flow raise questions about our ability to continue as a going concern. The Company’s net cash used in operating activities was approximately $8.8 million and $17.5 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve revenue growth, profitability, or positive cash flow on either a quarterly or annual basis or that profitability, if achieved, will be sustained. No adjustments have been made to the financial statements that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. If we are unable to achieve or sustain profitability, we may not be financially viable in the future and may have to curtail, suspend, or cease operations, restructure existing operations to attempt to ensure future viability, or pursue other alternatives such as re-filing for bankruptcy, pursuing dissolution and liquidation or seeking to merge with another company or sell all or substantially all of our assets. Because of our recurring losses and negative cash flows from operations, the audit report of our independent public accountants on our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 contains an explanatory paragraph stating that the independent auditor has substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. 19 Index The restatement of our consolidated financial statements has subjected us to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including increased costs for accounting and legal fees and the increased possibility of legal proceedings. We determined that our consolidated financial statements for our 2006 and 2007 fiscal years, each of the quarterly periods of 2007 and the first three quarters of 2008 had to be restated due to, among other things, errors in our interpretation and application of generally accepted accounting principles. As a result of the restatement that was completed in October 2009, we have become subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including: ● We incurred substantial unanticipated costs for accounting and legal fees during 2009 in connection with the restatement. Although the restatement is complete, we expect to continue to incur additional legal costs as noted below. ● As a result of the restatement, we were named in a number of lawsuits as discussed in Item 3 of Part I of this Annual Report, “Legal Proceedings” and Note 19, “Commitments and Contingencies” although such claims are most likely barred by the discharge injunction resulting from the confirmation of the Amended Plan. If such actions are brought and are not barred by the discharge injunction, we may incur substantial defense costs regardless of the outcome of these actions and insurance may not be sufficient to cover the losses we may incur. Likewise, such actions might cause a diversion of our management’s time and attention. If we do not prevail in one or more of these actions, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Management has identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting with respect to the timely filling of the Company’s 2009 consolidated financial statements. Additionally, management may identify material weaknesses in the future that could adversely affect investor confidence, impair the value of our common stock and increase our cost of raising capital. Management assessed the effectiveness of our disclosure and internal controls and procedures as of December 31, 2009. Management identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting with respect to timely filling of the Company’s 2009 consolidated financial statements. As a result of this material weakness, our current Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure and internal controls and procedures were not effective at a reasonable assurance level as of December 31, 2009. Management has taken and is continuing to take steps to remediate the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. There can be no assurance as to how quickly or effectively our remediation steps will remediate the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting or that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Any failure to remedy additional deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that may be discovered in the future or to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of such controls, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could, in turn, affect the future ability of our management to certify that our internal control over our financial reporting is effective. Inferior internal control over financial reporting could also subject us to the scrutiny of the SEC and other regulatory bodies which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and could subject us to civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation, which could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify additional deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our share price. Furthermore, additional deficiencies could result in future non-compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Such non-compliance could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including review by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. We have a limited operating history and have generated losses in every quarter except for the second and third quarters of 2006. We began operations in February 2000 and incurred losses in each reporting period except for the second and third quarters of 2006. Our prospects for financial success are difficult to forecast because we have a relatively limited operating history. Our prospects for financial success must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in new, unproven and rapidly evolving markets. Our business could be subject to any or all of the problems, expenses, delays and risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise, including limited capital resources, possible delays in product development, possible cost overruns due to price and cost increases in raw product and manufacturing processes, uncertain market acceptance, and inability to respond effectively to competitive developments and attract, retain and motivate qualified employees. Therefore, there can be no assurance that our business or products will be successful, that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitable operations or that we will not encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. 20 Index We have not yet achieved positive cash flows. We have not generated a positive cash flow from operations continuously period to period since commencing operations. Management is reassessing the business to identify core and non-core assets. To raise additional cash funding, non-core assets and/or business units will be offered for sale. Additionally, increased focus and attention will be undertaken in an effort to reduce operating expenses to increase cash flow and fund current operations in our NutraCea Segment. Our ability to meet long term business objectives likely will be dependent upon our ability to raise additional financing through public or private equity financings, establish increasing cash flow from operations, enter into collaborative or other arrangements with corporate sources, or secure other sources of financing to fund long-term operations. There is no assurance that external funds will be available on terms acceptable to us in sufficient amount to finance operations until we do reach sufficient positive cash flow. Any issuance of securities to obtain such funds would dilute percentage ownership of our shareholders. Such dilution could also have an adverse impact on our earnings per share and reduce the price of our common stock. Incurring additional debt may involve restrictive covenants and increased interest costs that will strain our future cash flow. An inability to obtain sufficient financing might require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our product development and marketing programs, eliminate or restructure portions of our operations, restructure existing operations to attempt to ensure future viability, or pursue other alternatives including dissolution and liquidation or seeking to merge with another company or sell all or substantially all of our assets. There are significant market risks associated with our business. We have formulated our business plan and strategies based on certain assumptions regarding the size of the rice bran market, our anticipated share of this market and the estimated price and acceptance of our products. These assumptions are based on the best estimates of our management; however there can be no assurance that our assessments regarding market size, potential market share attainable by us, the price at which we will be able to sell our products, market acceptance of our products or a variety of other factors will prove to be correct. Any future success may depend upon factors including changes in the dietary supplement industry, governmental regulation, increased levels of competition, including the entry of additional competitors and increased success by existing competitors, changes in general economic conditions, increases in operating costs including costs of production, supplies, personnel, equipment, and reduced margins caused by competitive pressures. We may face difficulties integrating businesses we acquire. As part of our strategy, we expect to review opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities. In the event of any future acquisitions, we could: ● issue stock that would dilute current shareholders’ percentage ownership; ● incur debt; or ● assume liabilities. These purchases also involve numerous risks, including: ● problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products; ● unanticipated costs; ● diversion of management’s attention from our core business; ● adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; ● risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and ● potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations. 21 Index We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future. We intend to pursue significant foreign operations and there are inherent risks in operating overseas. An important component of our business strategy is to build rice bran stabilization and rice bran oil facilities in foreign countries and to market and sell our products internationally. For example, in 2008 we purchased a company in Brazil that manufactures rice bran oil. There are risks in operating facilities in developing countries because, among other reasons, we may be unable to attract sufficient qualified personnel, intellectual property rights may not be enforced as we expect, and legal rights may not be available as contemplated. Should any of these risks occur, we may be unable to maximize the output from these facilities and our financial results may decrease from our anticipated levels. The inherent risks of international operations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The types of risks faced in connection with international operations and sales include, among others: ● cultural differences in the conduct of business; ● fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; ● greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; ● impact of recessions in economies outside of the United States; ● reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; ● unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; ● tariffs and other trade barriers; ● political conditions in each country; ● management and operation of an enterprise spread over various countries; ● the burden and administrative costs of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; and ● currency restrictions. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange could adversely affect our financial results. We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including primarily the Brazilian Real. Currently, a significant portion of our revenues and expenses occur in our Brazilian subsidiary, Irgovel. Because our Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect historically, during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against the Brazilian real and any other currency which affects a material amount of our operations, will affect our revenues, cost of sales, gross profit (loss), operating expenses, or other income and expenses and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. These fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Disruptions in financial markets may result in significant changes in foreign exchange rates in relatively short periods of time which further increases the risk of an adverse currency effect. Since we plan to expand our international operations, we will likely increase our exposure to foreign currency risks. We do not hedge our currency risk, and do not expect to, as currency hedges are expensive and do not necessarily reduce the risk of currency fluctuations over longer periods of time. We depend on a limited number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2009, one customer accounted for a total of 14.7% of the Company’s sales. At December 31, 2009, one customer accounted for 14.1% of the Company’s accounts receivable. For the year ended December 31, 2008, one customer accounted for a total of 14.8% of the Company’s sales. At December 31, 2008, one customer accounted for 20.0% of the Company’s accounts receivable. Although we continue to expand our customer base in an attempt to mitigate the concentration of customers, the loss of any one of these customers could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 22 Index We may encounter difficulties in maintaining relationships with distributors and customers while enforcing our credit policies. We define credit risk as the risk of loss from obligors or counterparty default. Our credit risks arise from both distributors and consumers. Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control. Our ability to forecast future trends and spot shifts in consumer patterns or behavior even before they occur are vital for our success in today’s economy. In managing risk, our objective is to protect our profitability, but also protect, to the extent we can, our ongoing relationship with our distributors and customers. With this in mind, we have taken the following actions: ● We adopted, and our Board of Directors approved, a new credit risk policy that establishes general principles and the overall framework for managing consumer credit risk across the Company. This policy is further supported by subordinate policies and practices covering all facets of consumer credit extension, including prospecting, approvals, authorizations, line management, collections, and fraud prevention. Going forward, these policies should help ensure consistent application of credit management principles and standardized reporting of asset quality and projected loss reserves. ● We incorporated more sophisticated information in the Company’s risk evaluations; ● We increased our focus on areas of high risk, including canceling an account or placing a cash only policy on certain questionable accounts; ● We reduced certain credit limits; ● We concentrated our efforts on quickly identifying and assisting distributors who are experiencing temporary financial difficulty. Implementing and enforcing our credit policy and providing guidance to the officers on the policy is critical for us to achieve US GAAP compliant revenue recognition. We may encounter difficulties in maintaining relationships with distributors and customers while enforcing our credit policies. The inability of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us may adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to credit risk due to concentration of our trade accounts receivables and notes receivables. As of December 31, 2009, six customers accounted for 35% of our $3,506,000 trade accounts receivable and one debtor accounted for 100% of $3,000,000 notes receivables reflected on our December 31, 2009 balance sheet. The inability of our significant customers and obligors to meet their obligations to us, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We rely upon a limited number of product offerings The majority of the products that we have sold as of December 31, 2009 have been based on SRB produced at our US facilities and extracted rice bran oil from Irgovel, our Brazil facility. Although we will market SRB as a dietary supplement, as an active food ingredient in other companies’ products, and in other ways, a decline in the market demand for our SRB products, as well as the products of other companies utilizing our SRB products, could have a significant adverse impact on us. We are dependent upon our marketing efforts. We are dependent on our ability to market products to animal food producers, food manufacturers, mass merchandise and health food retailers, and to other companies for use in their products. We must increase the level of awareness of dietary supplements in general and our products in particular. We will be required to devote substantial management and financial resources to these marketing and advertising efforts and there can be no assurance that it will be successful. We rely upon an adequate supply of raw rice bran. All of our current products depend on our proprietary technology using raw rice bran, which is a by-product from milling paddy rice to white rice. Our ability to manufacture SRB is currently limited to the production capability of our production equipment at Farmers’ Rice Co-operative and Archer Daniels Midland in California and our own plants located next to Louisiana Rice Mill in Mermentau, Louisiana, and Farmer’s Rice Milling in Lake Charles, Louisiana. Along with our value-added product plants in Dillon, Montana and our facility in Pelotas, Brazil (acquired in February 2008), we currently are capable of producing enough finished products to meet current demand. If demand for our products were to increase dramatically in the future, we would need additional production capacity. 23 Index There can be no assurance that we will continue to secure adequate sources of raw rice bran to meet our future demand. Since rice bran has a limited shelf life, the supply of rice bran is affected by the amount of rice planted and harvested each year. If economic or weather conditions adversely affect the amount of rice planted or harvested, the cost of rice bran products that we use may increase. We are not generally able to immediately pass cost increases to our customers and any increase in the cost of SRB products would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We face competition. Competition in our targeted industries, including nutraceuticals, functional food ingredients, rice bran oils, animal feed supplements and companion pet food ingredients is vigorous, with a large number of businesses engaged in the various industries. Many of our competitors have established reputations for successfully developing and marketing their products, including products that incorporate bran from other cereal grains and other alternative ingredients that are widely recognized as providing similar benefits as rice bran. In addition, many of our competitors have greater financial, managerial, and technical resources than us. If we are not successful in competing in these markets, we may not be able to attain our business objectives. We must comply with our contractual obligations. We have numerous ongoing contractual obligations under various purchase, sale, supply, production and other agreements which govern our business operations. We also have contractual obligations which require ongoing payments such as various lease obligations and the agreement of Irgovel to pay tax obligations to the Brazilian government over a ten year period. While we seek to comply at all times with these obligations, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the terms of all contracts during all periods of time, especially if there are significant changes in market conditions or our financial condition. If we are unable to comply with our material contractual obligations, there likely would be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have a high concentration of credit risk The Company currently depends on a limited number of customers. This results in a concentration of credit risk with respect to the Company’s outstanding accounts receivable. The Company considers the financial strength of the customer, the remoteness of the possible risk that a default event will occur, the potential benefits to the future growth and development of the Company, possible actions to reduce the likelihood of a default event and the benefits to the Company from the transaction before entering into a large credit limit for a customer. Although the Company analyzes these factors, there can be no assurance that the ultimate collection of the obligation from the customer will occur. Although we continue to expand our customer base in an attempt to mitigate the concentration of credit risk, the writing off of an accounts receivable balance could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables. Historically, we have not experienced any loss of our cash and cash equivalents, but we have experienced losses to our trade receivables. Our products could fail to meet applicable regulations which could have a material adverse affect on our financial performance. The dietary supplement and cosmetic industries are subject to considerable government regulation, both as to efficacy as well as labeling and advertising. There is no assurance that all of our products and marketing strategies will satisfy all of the applicable regulations of the Dietary Supplement, Health and Education Act, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and/or the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Failure to meet any applicable regulations would require us to limit the production or marketing of any non-compliant products or advertising, which could subject us to financial or other penalties. 24 Index We may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls. We sell food and nutritional products for animal and human consumption, which involves risk such as product contamination or spoilage, product tampering and other adulteration of food products. We may be subject to liability if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. In addition, we may voluntarily recall products in the event of contamination or damage. A significant product liability judgment or a widespread product recall may cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful, there may be negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury which could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers. Many of the risks of our business have only limited insurance coverage and many of our business risks are uninsurable. Our business operations are subject to potential product liability, environmental, fire, employee, manufacturing, shipping and other risks. Although we have insurance to cover some of these risks, the amount of this insurance is limited and includes numerous exceptions and limitations to coverage. Further, no insurance is available to cover certain types of risks, such as acts of God, war, terrorism, major economic and business disruptions, and similar events. In the event we were to suffer a significant uninsured claim, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights for our products and technology. Our success is dependent upon our ability to protect the patents, trade secrets and trademarks that we have and to develop new patents and trademarks for future processes, machinery, compounds and products that we develop. The process of seeking patent protection may be long and expensive, and there can be no assurance that patents will be issued, that we will be able to protect our technology adequately, or that competition will not be able to develop similar technology. There currently are no claims or lawsuits pending or threatened against us regarding possible infringement claims, but there can be no assurance that infringement claims by third parties, or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims, will not be asserted in the future or that such assertions, if proven to be accurate, will not have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the future, litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of our efforts, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Adverse determinations in any litigation could result in the loss of our proprietary rights, subjecting us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our systems, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that a license under a third party’s intellectual property rights will be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all. We are dependent on key employees and consultants. Our success depends upon the efforts of our top management team, including the efforts of John Short (Chairman and Chief Executive Officer), Dale Belt (Chief Financial Officer), Leo Gingras (President and Chief Operating Officer), and Colin Garner (Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing). Although we have written employment agreements with each of the foregoing individuals, there is no assurance that such individuals will not die, become disabled, or resign. In addition, our success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain key management persons for positions relating to the marketing and distribution of our products. There is no assurance that we will be able to recruit and employ such executives at times and on terms acceptable to us. Our products may require clinical trials to establish efficacy and safety. Certain of our products may require clinical trials to establish our benefit claims or their safety and efficacy. Such trials can require a significant amount of resources and there is no assurance that such trials will be favorable to the claims we make for our products, or that the cumulative authority established by such trials will be sufficient to support our claims. Moreover, both the findings and methodology of such trials are subject to challenge by the FDA and scientific bodies. If the findings of our trials are challenged or found to be insufficient to support our claims, additional trials may be required before such products can be marketed. 25 Index Risks Related to Our Stock Our Stock Price is Volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. We trade on the over the counter “pink sheets” for which there is an inconsistent market and we are a thinly traded stock subject to volatility in price and demand of our shares. The high and low closing sales prices of our common stock for the following periods were: NutraCea Common Stock Low High Year Ended December 31, 2010 Fourth Quarter $ 0.10 $ 0.24 Third Quarter $ 0.08 $ 0.13 Second Quarter $ 0.06 $ 0.16 First Quarter $ 0.07 $ 0.14 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Fourth Quarter $ 0.04 $ 0.18 Third Quarter $ 0.12 $ 0.27 Second Quarter $ 0.15 $ 0.41 First Quarter $ 0.18 $ 0.56 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Fourth Quarter $ 0.31 $ 0.52 Third Quarter $ 0.39 $ 0.70 Second Quarter $ 0.69 $ 1.13 First Quarter $ 0.89 $ 1.56 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Fourth Quarter $ 0.75 $ 1.76 Third Quarter $ 1.34 $ 3.31 Second Quarter $ 3.03 $ 5.00 First Quarter $ 2.21 $ 3.39 The market price of a share of our common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors, including: ● announcements of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; ● fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; ● developments in our relationships with customers and suppliers; ● the loss of services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees; ● announcements of technological innovations or new systems or enhancements used by us or our competitors; ● developments in our or our competitors’ intellectual property rights; ● adverse effects to our operating results due to impairment of goodwill; ● failure to successfully implement the Amended Plan ● failure to meet the expectation of securities analysts’ or the public; ● general economic and market conditions; ● our ability to expand our operations, domestically and internationally, and the amount and timing of expenditures related to this expansion; ● litigation involving us, our industry or both; ● actual or anticipated changes in expectations regarding our performance by investors or securities analysts; and ● price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time. 26 Index In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Our stock price is volatile and we have become the target of securities litigation which could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources from our business. In addition, volatility, lack of positive performance in our stock price or changes to our overall compensation program, including our equity incentive program, may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. We have significant “equity overhang” which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. As of December 31, 2010, NutraCea had 193,359,109 shares of common stock outstanding. Additionally, as of December 31, 2010, options and warrants to purchase approximately 79,915,000 shares of our common stock were outstanding. The possibility that substantial amounts of our outstanding common stock may be sold by investors or the perception that such sales could occur, often called “equity overhang,” could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities in the future. The exercise of outstanding options and warrants may dilute current shareholders. As of December 31, 2010, there were outstanding options and warrants to purchase approximately 79,915,000 shares of our common stock. Holders of these options and warrants may exercise them at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on terms more favorable to us. Moreover, while these options and warrants are outstanding, our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms may be adversely affected. We likely will need to raise funds through debt or equity financings in the future to achieve our business objectives and to satisfy our cash obligations, which would dilute the ownership of our existing shareholders and possibly subordinate certain of their rights to the rights of new investors. We likely will need to raise funds through debt or equity financings in order to meet our current cash requirements and to complete our ultimate business objectives. We also may choose to raise additional funds in debt or equity financings if they are available to us on terms we believe reasonable to increase our working capital, strengthen our financial position or to make acquisitions. Our Board of Directors has the ability, without seeking shareholder approval, to issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock that is convertible into common stock for such consideration as the Board of Directors may consider sufficient, which may be at a discount to the market price. Any sales of additional equity or convertible debt securities would result in dilution of the equity interests of our existing shareholders, which could be substantial. Additionally, if we issue shares of preferred stock or convertible debt to raise funds, the holders of those securities might be entitled to various preferential rights over the holders of our common stock, including repayment of their investment, and possibly additional amounts, before any payments could be made to holders of our common stock in connection with an acquisition of the company. Such preferred shares, if authorized, might be granted rights and preferences that would be senior to, or otherwise adversely affect, the rights and the value of our common stock. Also, new investors may require that we and certain of our shareholders enter into voting arrangements that give them additional voting control or representation on our Board of Directors. The authorization and issuance of preferred stock may have an adverse effect on the rights of holders of our common stock. Our Board of Directors, without further action or vote by holders of our common stock, has the right to establish the terms, preference, rights and restrictions and issue shares of preferred stock. The terms of any series of preferred stock could be issued with terms, rights, preferences and restrictions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and thereby reduce the value of our common stock. The designation and issuance of preferred stock favorable to current management or shareholders could make it more difficult to gain control of our Board of Directors or remove our current management and may be used to defeat hostile bids for control which might provide shareholders with premiums for their shares. We have designated and issued five series of preferred stock, no shares of which remain outstanding as of December 31, 2010. We may issue additional series of preferred stock in the future. 27 Index Compliance with corporate governance and public disclosure regulations may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and new regulations issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission, are creating uncertainty for companies. In order to comply with these laws, we may need to invest substantial resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment would result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our officers and directors have limited liability and have indemnification rights Our Articles of Incorporation and by-laws provide that we may indemnify our officers and directors against losses sustained or liabilities incurred which arise from any transaction in that officer’s or director’s respective managerial capacity unless that officer or director violates a duty of loyalty, did not act in good faith, engaged in intentional misconduct or knowingly violated the law, approved an improper dividend, or derived an improper benefit from the transaction. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 