Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investors or potential investors in our stock should carefully consider the risks described below. Our stock price will reflect the performance of our business relative to, among other things, our competition, expectations of securities analysts or investors, and general economic market conditions and industry conditions. One should carefully consider the following factors in connection with any investment in our stock. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if any of the following risks occur. Should any or all of the following risks materialize, the trading price of our stock could decline, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history and have generated losses in each quarter of 2007, except the second, and in each quarter before 2006. We began operations in February 2000 and incurred losses in each reporting period until the second fiscal quarter of 2006, and we incurred losses in each quarter of 2007 except the second. Our prospects for financial success are difficult to forecast because we have a relatively limited operating history. Our prospects for financial success must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in new, unproven and rapidly evolving markets. Our business could be subject to any or all of the problems, expenses, delays and risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise, including limited capital resources, possible delays in product development, possible cost overruns due to price and cost increases in raw product and manufacturing processes, uncertain market acceptance, and inability to respond effectively to competitive developments and attract, retain and motivate qualified employees. Therefore, there can be no assurance that our business or products will be successful, that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitable operations or that we will not encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. 17 There are significant market risks associated with our business. We have formulated our business plan and strategies based on certain assumptions regarding the size of the rice bran market, our anticipated share of this market and the estimated price and acceptance of our products. These assumptions are based on the best estimates of our management; however there can be no assurance that our assessments regarding market size, potential market share attainable by us, the price at which we will be able to sell our products, market acceptance of our products or a variety of other factors will prove to be correct. Any future success may depend upon factors including changes in the dietary supplement industry, governmental regulation, increased levels of competition, including the entry of additional competitors and increased success by existing competitors, changes in general economic conditions, increases in operating costs including costs of production, supplies, personnel, equipment, and reduced margins caused by competitive pressures. We depend on a limited number of customers. During 2007, we received approximately 59% of product sales revenue from six customers. During 2006, we received approximately 67% of product sales revenue from five customers and approximately 48% of our revenue from one customer. A loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. The inability of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us may adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to credit risk due to concentration of our trade accounts receivables and notes receivables. As of December 31, 2007, 6 customers accounted for 28% of our $2,346,000 trade accounts receivable and 2 debtors accounted for 81% of $7,975,000 notes receivables reflected on our December 31, 2007 balance sheet. In addition, we acquired secured promissory notes of Vital Living, Inc. with aggregate principal amounts of $4,226,000 in connection with our entering into an asset purchase agreement with Vital Living to acquire Vital Living’s assets. While we obtain personal guarantees and security interests backing these obligation when possible, many of these obligations are not guaranteed or secured. The inability of our significant customers and obligors to meet their obligations to us, or, in the case of Vital Living, the deterioration of Vital Living’s financial condition or assets before we are able to consummate our asset purchase, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We rely upon a limited number of product offerings. The majority of the products that we have sold as of December 31, 2007 have been based on stabilized rice bran. Although we will market stabilized rice bran as a dietary supplement, as an active food ingredient for inclusion in our products and in other companies’ products, and in other ways, a decline in the market demand for our SRB products, as well as the products of other companies utilizing our SRB products, could have a significant adverse impact on us. We are dependent upon our marketing efforts. We are dependent on our ability to market products to animal food producers, food manufacturers, mass merchandise and health food retailers, and to other companies for use in their products. We must increase the level of awareness of dietary supplements in general and our products in particular. We will be required to devote substantial management and financial resources to these marketing and advertising efforts and there can be no assurance that it will be successful. We rely upon an adequate supply of raw rice bran. All of our current products depend on our proprietary technology using unstabilized or raw rice bran, which is a by-product from milling paddy rice to white rice. Our ability to manufacture stabilized rice bran raw is currently limited to the production capability of our production equipment at FRC, ADM, our own plants located next to the Louisiana Rice Mill (“LRM”) in Mermentau, LA, and American Rice, Inc. in Freeport, TX, and our single value-added products plant in Dillon, Montana. Between the Dillon, Montana plant and our co-located facilities at FRC, ADM, and own plants in Mermentau and Freeport, and our new facility in Pelotas, Brazil (acquired in February 2008) we currently are capable of producing enough finished products to meet current demand. With the exception of Pelotas, Brazil, the existing plants do not allow for dramatic expansion of product demand, therefore additional production capacity is needed. Anticipating incremental demand for NutraCea products, we completed the first phase of an expansion of the Dillon, Montana facility in 2006. We also entered into a new raw rice bran supply agreement with Louisiana Rice Mill (“LRM”) in Louisiana that year. The supply agreement led to the construction of a new stabilization plant in Mermentau which became operational in April 2007. Start-up of our latest stabilization facility during the first quarter of 2008 in Lake Charles, LA should meet our production needs for 2008, but we do not anticipate that they will meet our longer term supply needs. Therefore, we anticipate building new facilities to meet the forecasted demand for our products and envision we will be able to execute on this initiative. In the event we are unable to create additional production capacity to produce more stabilized rice bran products to fulfill our current and future requirements this could materially and adversely affect our business, results from operations, and financial condition. 18 We are pursuing other supply sources in the United States and in foreign countries and anticipate being able to secure alternatives and back-up sources of rice bran, however, there can be no assurance that we will continue to secure adequate sources of raw rice bran to meet our requirements to produce stabilized rice bran products. Since rice bran has a limited shelf life, the supply of rice bran is affected by the amount of rice planted and harvested each year. If economic or weather conditions adversely affect the amount of rice planted or harvested, the cost of rice bran products that we use may increase. We are not generally able to immediately pass cost increases to our customers and any increase in the cost of stabilized rice bran products would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We face risks in our wheat bran stabilization efforts. In January 2008, through a newly formed wholly owned subsidiary, we entered an agreement to develop and lease Wheat Bran Stabilization equipment to an Indonesian company. We cannot guarantee that our efforts to develop Wheat Bran Stabilization equipment will be successful. We face competition. Competition in our targeted industries, including nutraceuticals, functional food ingredients, rice bran oils, animal feed supplements and companion pet food ingredients is vigorous, with a large number of businesses engaged in the various industries. Many of our competitors have established reputations for successfully developing and marketing their products, including products that incorporate bran from other cereal grains and other alternative ingredients that are widely recognized as providing similar benefits as rice bran. In addition, many of our competitors have greater financial, managerial, and technical resources than us. If we are not successful in competing in these markets, we may not be able to attain our business objectives. We intend to pursue significant foreign operations and there are inherent risks in operating abroad. An important component of our business strategy is to build rice bran stabilization facilities in foreign countries and to market and sell our products internationally. For example, we recently entered into a joint venture with an Indonesian company produce and market our SRB products in Southeast Asia and purchased a company in Brazil that manufactures rice bran oil. There are risks in operating stabilization facilities in developing countries because, among other reasons, we may be unable to attract sufficient qualified personnel, intellectual property rights may not be enforced as we expect, power may not be available as contemplated. Should any of these risks occur, we may be unable to maximize the output from these facilities and our financial results may decrease from our anticipated levels. The inherent risks of international operations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The types of risks faced in connection with international operations and sales include, among others: · cultural differences in the conduct of business; · fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; · greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; · impact of recessions in economies outside of the United States; · reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · tariffs and other trade barriers; · political conditions in each country; · management and operation of an enterprise spread over various countries; · the burden and administrative costs of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; and · currency restrictions. 19 Our products could fail to meet applicable regulations which could have a material adverse affect on our financial performance. The dietary supplement and cosmetic industries are subject to considerable government regulation, both as to efficacy as well as labeling and advertising. There is no assurance that all of our products and marketing strategies will satisfy all of the applicable regulations of the Dietary Supplement, Health and Education Act, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and/or the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Failure to meet any applicable regulations would require us to limit the production or marketing of any non-compliant products or advertising, which could subject us to financial or other penalties. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights for our products and technology. We have one patent entitled Methods for Treating Joint Inflammation, Pain and Loss of Mobility, which covers both humans and mammals. In addition, our subsidiary RiceX has five United States patents and may decide to file corresponding international applications. RiceX holds patents to the production of Beta Glucan and to a micro nutrient enriched rice bran oil process. RiceX also holds patents to a method to treat high cholesterol, to a method to treat diabetes and to a process for producing Higher Value Fractions from stabilized rice bran. We also have filed a number of provisional patents for our technology. The process of seeking patent protection may be long and expensive, and there can be no assurance that patents will be issued, that we will be able to protect our technology adequately, or that competition will not be able to develop similar technology. There currently are no claims or lawsuits pending or threatened against us or RiceX regarding possible infringement claims, but there can be no assurance that infringement claims by third parties, or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims, will not be asserted in the future or that such assertions, if proven to be accurate, will not have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the future, litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of our efforts, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Adverse determinations in any litigation could result in the loss of our proprietary rights, subjecting us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our systems, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that a license under a third party’s intellectual property rights will be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could impact negatively our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2007. We identified two material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that, as of December 31, 2007, we did not maintain effective control over financial reporting based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. For a detailed description of these material weaknesses, see Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.” Each of our material weaknesses results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements that we prepare will not be prevented or detected. As a result, we must perform additional work to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. If we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plan, or fail to update our internal control over financial reporting as our business evolves or to integrate acquired businesses into our controls system, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. If we are unable to report financial information in a timely and accurate manner or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the SEC, securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects and the market value of our common stock. 20 We are dependent on key employees and consultants. Our success depends upon the efforts of our top management team, including the efforts of Bradley D. Edson, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Todd C. Crow, our Chief Financial Officer, Leo Gingras, our Chief Operating Officer, Margie D. Adelman, our Secretary and Senior Vice President and Kody K. Newland, our Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing. Although we have written employment agreements with each of the foregoing individuals, except for Ms. Adelman, there is no assurance that such individuals will not die, become disabled, or resign. In addition, our success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain key management persons for positions relating to the marketing and distribution of our products. There is no assurance that we will be able to recruit and employ such executives at times and on terms acceptable to us. We have not yet achieved positive cash flow We have not generated a positive cash flow from operations continuous period to period since commencing operations. We raised in private placements of equity approximately $50,000,000 in February 2007, $17,560,000 in May 2006, and $8,000,000 in October 2005, and paid off all short and long term debt obligations. While we believe that we have adequate cash reserves and working capital to fund current operations, our ability to meet long term business objectives may be dependent upon our ability to raise additional financing through public or private equity financings, establish increasing cash flow from operations, enter into collaborative or other arrangements with corporate sources, or secure other sources of financing to fund long-term operations. There is no assurance that external funds will be available on terms acceptable to us in sufficient amount to finance operations until we do reach sufficient positive cash flow to fund our capital expenditures. In addition, any issuance of securities to obtain such funds would dilute percentage ownership of our shareholders. Such dilution could also have an adverse impact on our earnings per share and reduce the price of our common stock. Incurring additional debt may involve restrictive covenants and increased interest costs and demand on future cash flow. Our inability to obtain sufficient financing may require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our product development and marketing programs. Our products may require clinical trials to establish efficacy and safety. Certain of our products may require clinical trials to establish our benefit claims or their safety and efficacy. Such trials can require a significant amount of resources and there is no assurance that such trials will be favorable to the claims we make for our products, or that the cumulative authority established by such trials will be sufficient to support our claims. Moreover, both the findings and methodology of such trials are subject to challenge by the FDA and scientific bodies. If the findings of our trials are challenged or found to be insufficient to support our claims, additional trials may be required before such products can be marketed. Risks Related to Our Stock Our Stock Price is Volatile. The market price of a share of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. The high and low closing sales prices of a share of our common stock for the following periods were: High Low Twelve months ended December 31, 2007 $ 5.00 $ 0.75 Twelve months ended December 31, 2006 $ 2.74 $ 0.60 Twelve months ended December 31, 2005 $ 1.81 $ 0.30 21 The market price of a share of our common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors, including: · announcements of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; · fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; · developments in our relationships with customers and suppliers; · the loss of services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees; · announcements of technological innovations or new systems or enhancements used by us or our competitors; · developments in our or our competitors intellectual property rights; · adverse effects to our operating results due to impairment of goodwill; · failure to meet the expectation of securities analysts’ or the public; and · general economic and market conditions. We have significant “equity overhang” which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. As of March 3, 2008, NutraCea had 145,418,965 shares of common stock outstanding. Additionally, as of March 3, 2008, options and warrants to purchase approximately 41,981,000 shares of our common stock were outstanding. The possibility that substantial amounts of our outstanding common stock may be sold by investors or the perception that such sales could occur, often called “equity overhang,” could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities in the future. Sales of Our Stock Pursuant to Registration Statements May Hurt Our Stock Price We granted registration rights to the investors in our October 2005, May 2006 and February 2007 capital stock and warrant financings. As of March 3, 2008, approximately 25,319,000 shares of our common stock remained eligible for resale pursuant to outstanding registration statements filed for these investors. In addition, we have filed a registration statement to cover our issuance and sale of up to $125,000,000 of common stock, preferred stock and warrants to purchase common or preferred stock. Sales or potential sales of a significant number of shares into the public markets may negatively affect our stock price. The Exercise of Outstanding Options and Warrants May Dilute Current Shareholders As of March 3, 2008, there were outstanding options and warrants to purchase approximately 41,981,000 shares of our common stock. Holders of these options and warrants may exercise them at a time when we would otherwise be able to obtain additional equity capital on terms more favorable to us. Moreover, while these options and warrants are outstanding, our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms may be adversely affected. We may need to raise funds through debt or equity financings in the future, which would dilute the ownership of our existing shareholders and possibly subordinate certain of their rights to the rights of new investors. We may choose to raise additional funds in debt or equity financings if they are available to us on terms we believe reasonable to increase our working capital, strengthen our financial position or to make acquisitions. Any sales of additional equity or convertible debt securities would result in dilution of the equity interests of our existing shareholders, which could be substantial. Additionally, if we issue shares of preferred stock or convertible debt to raise funds, the holders of those securities might be entitled to various preferential rights over the holders of our common stock, including repayment of their investment, and possibly additional amounts, before any payments could be made to holders of our common stock in connection with an acquisition of the company. Such preferred shares, if authorized, might be granted rights and preferences that would be senior to, or otherwise adversely affect, the rights and the value of our common stock. Also, new investors may require that we and certain of our shareholders enter into voting arrangements that give them additional voting control or representation on our board of directors. 22 The authorization of our preferred stock may have an adverse effect on the rights of holders of our common stock. We may, without further action or vote by holders of our common stock, designate and issue shares of our preferred stock. The terms of any series of preferred stock could adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and thereby reduce the value of our common stock. The designation and issuance of preferred stock favorable to current management or shareholders could make it more difficult to gain control of our Board of Directors or remove our current management and may be used to defeat hostile bids for control which might provide shareholders with premiums for their shares. We may engage in future acquisitions that dilute our shareholders and cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities. As part of our strategy, we expect to review opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities. In the event of any future acquisitions, we could: · issue stock that would dilute current shareholders’ percentage ownership; · incur debt; or · assume liabilities. These purchases also involve numerous risks, including: · problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products; · unanticipated costs; · diversion of management’s attention from our core business; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; · risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and · potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might purchase in the future. Compliance with corporate governance and public disclosure regulations may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and new regulations issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission, are creating uncertainty for companies. In order to comply with these laws, we may need to invest substantial resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment would result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our officers and directors have limited liability and have indemnification rights Our Articles of Incorporation and by-laws provide that we may indemnify our officers and directors against losses sustained or liabilities incurred which arise from any transaction in that officer’s or director’s respective managerial capacity unless that officer or director violates a duty of loyalty, did not act in good faith, engaged in intentional misconduct or knowingly violated the law, approved an improper dividend, or derived an improper benefit from the transaction. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 23 Item 